Managements Discussion and Analysis" (Part II, Item 7 of this Form 10-K). We undertake no obligation to update or revise publicly any forward-looking statements, whether because of new information, future events, or otherwise. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS We are a leading provider of advanced communications solutions for both commercial and government customers worldwide. Our solutions fulfill our customers needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical scenarios where performance is crucial. On February 23, 2016, we completed the acquisition of TeleCommunication Systems, Inc. ("TCS"). The TCS acquisition has a preliminary aggregate purchase price for accounting purposes of approximately $340.4 million (also referred to as the "transaction equity value"). As of February 23, 2016, the date we closed the acquisition, TCS had $59.9 million of cash and cash equivalents and total debt (including capital lease obligations and accrued interest) of approximately $143.1 million. As such, the transaction had an enterprise value of approximately $423.6 million. TCS is a leading provider of advanced communication solutions, including mission-critical command and control technologies, safety and security technologies and enterprise technologies. We believe that the acquisition of TCS provides us with a number of key strategic and financial benefits, including: The creation of scale and more diversified earnings streams, reducing volatility associated with challenging international (including emerging markets) business conditions; Entry into commercial markets at growth inflection points, including the public safety market which has a growing need for next generation emergency 911 systems that utilize messaging and trusted location technologies; An enhanced position with existing customers, including the U.S. government, for which Comtech is now a prime contractor, including for sales of our over-the-horizon microwave systems (troposcatter) products; and The ability to obtain meaningful cost synergies and additional growth prospects. The TCS acquisition was a significant step in our strategy of entering complementary markets and expanding our domestic and international commercial offerings. In connection with the TCS acquisition, we announced a new organizational structure by which we began managing our combined businesses through two reportable operating segments that we refer to as Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions. 1 Our fiscal year ended July 31, 2016, which includes approximately five months of TCSs operations, generated revenues of $411.0 million , an operating loss of $0.6 million (inclusive of $21.3 million of expenses primarily related to the TCS acquisition) and Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure) of $48.1 million . For a definition and explanation of Adjusted EBITDA, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Comparison of Fiscal 2016 and 2015 - Adjusted EBITDA. As we enter fiscal 2017, we have a backlog of $484.0 million and we are expecting significant year-over-year increases in net sales, operating income and Adjusted EBITDA. During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we announced that our Chairman of the Board resumed his role as Chief Executive Officer and President. Additionally, we created a new role of Chief Operating Officer, and we filled this position on September 26, 2016. In view of our transformative acquisition of TCS and the broad opportunities for future growth across all of our businesses, we believe these leadership changes will enhance our ability to manage expected growth, and reinforce company-wide execution and operational discipline, with a view to building long-term value for our shareholders. Our Business Outlook for fiscal 2017 is discussed further in " Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Business Outlook for Fiscal 2017. " Our Internet website is www.comtechtel.com and we make available on our website: our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), including annual reports, quarterly reports, current reports and any amendments to those filings. The reference to our website address does not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained therein into this Form 10-K. We also use our website to disseminate other material information to our investors (on the Home Page and in the "Investor Relations" section). Among other things, we post on our website our press releases and information about our public conference calls (including the scheduled dates, times and the methods by which investors and others can listen to those calls), and we make available for replay webcasts of those calls and other presentations. We also use social media channels to communicate with customers and the public about our Company, our products, services and other issues, and we use social media and the Internet to communicate with investors, including information about our shareholder meetings. Information and updates about our Annual Meetings will continue to be posted on our website at www.comtechtel.com in the "Investor Relations" section. Any materials filed with the SEC may be read and copied by the public at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are incorporated in the state of Delaware and were founded in 1967. 2 Corporate Strategies Over the long term, we intend to manage our business with the following principal corporate strategies: Seek leadership positions in markets where we can provide differentiated products and technology solutions; Identify and participate in emerging technologies that enhance or expand our product portfolio; Maximize responsiveness to our customers, including offering more integrated systems and solutions; Expand and further penetrate our diversified and balanced customer base; and Pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses and technologies. Competitive Strengths The successful execution of our principal corporate strategies is based on our competitive strengths, including the following: (1) We Have Significant Exposure to Large, Growing End Markets We believe Comtech is well positioned to capitalize on some of the most significant emerging technology trends occurring worldwide and that customers around the world will increasingly turn to us to fulfill their needs for secure wireless communications in some of the most demanding environments, including those where traditional communications are unavailable or cost-prohibitive, and in mission-critical scenarios where performance is crucial. These important emerging technology trends include growth in global wireless penetration and mobile data consumption, proliferation of mobile applications requiring trusted location data, widespread deployment of in-flight connectivity solutions by airlines worldwide, and the rapidly expanding breadth of High Definition ("HD") and 4K broadcasting content. (2) We Believe We Are a Market Leader in the End-Markets That We Serve Commercial Solutions Segment Communication Technologies - We believe we are the leading provider of Single Carrier per Channel ("SCPC") satellite earth station modems. Many of our key satellite earth station products incorporate Turbo Product Code ("TPC") forward error correction technology and our licensed DoubleTalk Carrier-in-Carrier bandwidth compression technology which enables our customers to optimize their satellite networks by either reducing their satellite transponder lease costs or increasing data throughput. We believe we are a leader in the traveling wave tube amplifiers ("TWTA") market and we differentiate our product offerings by our ability to develop the most efficient size, weight and power profile. Our TWTA products are vital to satellite communication applications such as traditional broadcast, direct-to-home ("DTH") broadcast and satellite newsgathering. We provide solid-state amplifiers that are also used to amplify signals carrying voice, video or data for air-to-satellite-to-ground communications. For example, our amplifiers, when incorporated into an aircraft satellite communication system, can provide passengers with email, Internet access and video conferencing. Certain of our high-powered amplifiers are AS-900 (an airborne quality standard ) certified. We believe we are a leader in providing amplifiers for the growing in-flight connectivity market. Safety and Security Technologies - We believe that we are a leader in public safety communication technologies used for delivery of 911 calls. We believe we have significant market share in the routing of U.S. wireless 911 calls, Voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") 911 calls and Text to 911 deployments. We believe we are one of two companies fulfilling the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") requirements for Enhanced 911 ("E911") call-routing to public safety answering points ("PSAPs") for wireless and VoIP network operators. E911 refers to 911 calls for both wireline and wireless telephones that are enhanced to provide location information of the caller. We are focusing our marketing and research and development efforts to meet system standards for next generation 911 ("NG911"), which refers to an Internet Protocol ("IP") based system that allows digital information (e.g., voice, photos, videos, text messages) to flow seamlessly from the public, through the 911 network, and on to emergency responders. 3 Enterprise Technologies - Our Short-Messaging Service ("SMS") Center software has been used by wireless carrier subscribers to send and receive text or data messages to and from wireless devices for almost two decades. We provide ongoing operational support for our installed base of systems, including administration of system components, system optimization and configuration management. In April 2016, we were issued a U.S. patent for our Location Trust Score technology, a unique process we developed to reliably identify a mobile location by generating a "Location Trust Score." Additionally, we have developed a location-based services platform that we refer to as Location Studio TM . This platform includes Look4 TM geo-services which enable customers to build their own applications powered by our location-based technology and a cloud-based positioning engine. We believe the positioning of Location Studio TM is unique in the industry and is an appealing alternative to free consumer-based mapping services which are subject to change by the supplier and which may not meet an enterprises privacy and security requirements. Government Solutions Segment Command and Control Technologies - We are a key supplier to the U.S. Army for mission critical command and control technology solutions such as our Secret Internet Protocol Router and Non-secure Internet Protocol Router Access Point ("SNAP") products. We are also a prime contractor under two 5-year indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity defense contract vehicles: the Armys Global Tactical Advanced Communications Systems ("GTACS") contract and the Defense Information Systems Agencys Custom SATCOM Solutions ("CS2") contract. In September 2015, we were named the awardee of a competitive five-year contract extension (a base plus five option periods) to provide the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD") personnel with curriculum development and training services to support cybersecurity workforce development. Additionally, we have and expect to continue to provide sustainment services to the U.S. Army for our Blue Force Tracking-1 system. Troposcatter Technologies - We have designed, manufactured and sold over-the-horizon microwave products and systems for approximately forty years and believe we are the leading supplier in this specialized product market. We believe we offer the only available adaptive troposcatter modem operating at 50 Mbps. Our Modular Tactical Transmission System ("MTTS") systems provide a high capacity, beyond-line-of-sight modular communications system designed for easy and rapid deployment. Our MTTS systems also offer seamless compatibility and interoperability with legacy-fielded troposcatter systems currently used by the U.S. military, including all versions of the AN/TRC-170. RF Power & Switching Technologies - We are one of the largest independent suppliers of broadband, high-power, high-performance RF microwave amplifiers, which reproduce signals with high power and are extremely complex and critical to the performance of the systems into which they are incorporated. Many of these amplifiers are produced in-house by large companies; however, our expertise has created a cost-effective and technologically superior alternative to in-house sourcing. Some of the companies who have outsourced amplifier production to us include Rockwell Collins, Inc., Thales Group, European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company ("EADS"), Telephonics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, BAE Systems PLC and Raytheon Company. Our amplifiers are also used in oncology treatment systems that allow physicians to give cancer patients higher doses of radiation that are more closely focused on cancerous tissue, thereby minimizing damage to healthy tissue. (3) We Believe We Provide Industry Leading Innovation, Capabilities and Solutions We have established a leading position of technology innovation in our fields through internal and customer-funded research and development activities, which have yielded significant advances. Examples of our industry-leading innovation include: Our Heights TM Networking Platform - An advanced networking platform that combines our most efficient waveforms, compression engines and the ability to provide dynamic bandwidth and power management to meet the demands of customers operating on traditional fixed satellite service systems ("FSS") while providing advantages for customers who plan to transition to high throughput satellite ("HTS") systems in the future. Our Heights TM platform, a successor to our advanced Very Small Aperture Terminal ("VSAT") series of products, is ideally suited for cellular backhaul, universal service obligation networks and other applications that require high performance in a hub-spoke environment. Our New Line of SuperPower TM TWTAs - In March 2015 we introduced new breakthrough Ku-band and DBS-band SuperPower TM TWTAs that can double TWTA output power and provide direct replacement for klystron power amplifiers ("KPAs") in satellite communications uplink applications. Based on positive customer reaction to this new product, we believe this innovation will drive market growth. Our Gallium Nitride Based Amplifiers - These amplifiers, which incorporate Gallium Nitride ("GaN") technololgy, offer an efficient size, weight and power profile affording customers more power with higher efficiency. With continued technology evolution in the GaN semiconductor marketplace, we have successfully developed solid-state products with our GaN semiconductor partners that are achieving power levels of traditional tube amplifier products. We believe this will create opportunities to replace difficult to utilize amplifiers that use antiquated technology and are more expensive to operate. 4 Our New Trusted Technology Location Solutions - In order to determine a cellular phone users location, many companies utilize technology that combines wireless network-derived location data with data from the phones on-board global positioning system receiver. In April 2016, we were issued a U.S. patent for our Location Trust Score technology. This patent grants us important intellectual property protection and licensing opportunities for a unique process that identifies the reliability of a stated mobile location by generating a "Location Trust Score." We believe this technology is a major breakthrough in providing secure, accurate and reliable information and a powerful tool for identifying fraud, preventing "false positive" denials of service, and confirming location compliance for regulated industries. (4) We Have a Diverse Global Customer Base We have established longstanding relationships with hundreds of customers worldwide. Our customers include leading system and network suppliers in the global satellite, defense, broadcast and aerospace industries, as well as the U.S. federal government, U.S. state and local governments, and foreign governments. Our satellite earth station products and our high-power amplifiers are used by hundreds of international customers including mobile cellular network providers and governments around the world. We also have ongoing relationships with the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Navy, U.S. Army and other government agencies. Our global commercial and government customers are increasingly seeking integrated solutions to meet their operational needs. We believe that our customers recognize our ability to develop improved technologies and to meet stringent program requirements. We intend to leverage relationships with our customers to introduce them to the expanded portfolio of technology solutions that resulted from the TCS acquisition. Additionally, we hope to expand relationships with U.S.-based telecommunications companies, including Verizon Wireless and AT&T, (through various divisions, directly and through channels). We also expect the TCS acquisition will further strengthen our relationship with the U.S. government, given TCS's prime position on key contracts. Prior to the acquisition, Comtech and TCS had worked together for a number of years to offer the U.S. military a troposcatter system in a transportable flyaway configuration (known as the AN/TCS-198(V3) or SNAP-3T) which is capable of providing seamless compatibility and interoperability with legacy-fielded over-the-horizon microwave systems. Over time, we hope to utilize these prime contracts to facilitate procurement by the U.S. government for our satellite earth station and over-the-horizon microwave equipment and systems, given the ever increasing amount of Command, Control, Communications, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance (also known as "C4ISR") information that is being generated. Our Two Business Segments Beginning with our third quarter of fiscal 2016, we began managing our business through two reportable operating segments: Commercial Solutions and Government Solutions. Our corporate senior management team supports the business segments by, among other things, actively seeking to exploit potential synergies that exist between the segments, including in areas such as manufacturing, technology, sales, marketing and customer support. In fiscal 2016, our Commercial Solutions segment contributed approximately 60.6% of our net sales and our Government Solutions segment contributed approximately 39.4% of our net sales. Additional financial information about our business segments, including net sales, operating income, Adjusted EBITDA (a Non-GAAP financial measure), total assets, and our operations outside the United States, is provided in " Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (13) Segment Information " included in " Part II -