ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and certain other factors that may affect our future results. Unless otherwise noted, transactions and other factors significantly impacting our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are discussed in order of magnitude. Our MD&A is presented in seven sections: Overview; Financial Information and Analysis of Results of Operations; Metrics; Capital Resources and Liquidity; Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies; Recent Accounting Changes; and Non-GAAP Financial Measures. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023. This MD&A provides additional information about our operations, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The year-over-year comparisons in this MD&A are as of and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, unless stated otherwise. The discussion of 2022 results and related year-over-year comparisons as of and for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 are found in Item 7 of Part II of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Throughout the MD&A, we refer to various notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and the information contained in such notes is incorporated by reference into the MD&A in the places where such references are made. Overview We deliver digital business solutions and services spanning the commercial, government and transportation spectrum creating valuable outcomes for our clients and the millions of people who count on them. We leverage cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, automation and advanced analytics to deliver mission-critical business process solutions. Through a dedicated global team of associates, process expertise, and advanced technologies, our solutions and services digitally transform our clients operations to enhance customer experiences, improve performance, increase efficiencies and reduce costs. Headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, we have a team of approximately 59,000 people as of December 31, 2023, servicing customers from service centers in 26 countries. In 2023, approximately 11% of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. These three segments are: Commercial Our Commercial segment provides business process services and customized solutions to clients in a variety of commercial industries. Across the Commercial segment, we operate on our clients behalf to deliver mission-critical solutions and services to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and enable revenue growth for our clients and their consumers and employees. Government Our Government segment provides government-centric business process services to U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments for public assistance, healthcare programs and administration, transaction processing and payment services. Our solutions in this segment help governments respond to changing rules for eligibility and increasing citizen expectations. Transportation Our Transportation segment provides systems, support, and revenue-generating solutions to government transportation agency clients. We deliver mission-critical public safety, mobility and digital payment CNDT 2023 Annual Report 32 Table of Contents solutions that streamline operations, increase revenue and reduce congestion while creating safe, seamless travel experiences for consumers while reducing impact on the environment. Executive Summary During the first quarter of 2023, we held an investor briefing to communicate the next chapter in the Conduent journey. Our intense emphasis on growth, quality, and efficiency, beginning in the first quarter of 2020, resulted in a strengthened foundation. We remain focused on accelerating growth and enhancing value for our stakeholders and intend to achieve this by doubling down on key themes outlined in the March 2023 investor briefing. We also intend to continue our portfolio rationalization strategy, divesting certain solutions which have either scarcity value outside of Conduent or are capital intensive relative to their growth opportunity, and thereby allowing management the bandwidth and increased capital to devote focus to solutions where we believe we have competitive advantages or higher growth expectations. We believe this renewed focus on our portfolio rationalization strategy will result in a more nimble and faster growing Conduent with modest levels of net leverage, enhanced valuation, and significant excess capital to be deployed over time. Significant 2023 Actions Portfolio Rationalization In the March 2023 investor briefing we set an expectation of generating between $500 million to $700 million of after-tax proceeds from divestiture activity, and we have made significant progress this year towards this goal. On September 29, 2023, we entered into an agreement to transfer our BenefitWallet portfolio for approximately $425 million. The portfolio is expected to transfer in multiple phases in the first half of 2024, with an estimated pre-tax gain of approximately $425 million. Also, on December 27, 2023, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our Curbside Management Solutions and Public Safety Solutions businesses for $230 million plus the assumption of certain liabilities. This transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2024. The after-tax proceeds from these two transactions, plus other anticipated divestitures in 2024 will drive an upward revision of total net proceeds from divestitures to between $600 million and $800 million. Refer to Note 4 Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale and Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Strategic Growth Efforts During 2023, we continued to see opportunities in our Government Healthcare segment, particularly with our cloud-native Medicaid Claims solution, and we now have a number of significant implementations underway in the space. Our pipeline of opportunities remains strong in this area. We also continued to make progress with our Immediate Payments offering, laying the marketing and educational foundation with our existing clients, and enhancing our partnership strategy. We were the first organization to execute transactions over the newly implemented FedNow capability and we anticipate an acceleration of new business signings to occur in 2024. New Business Signings While we experienced some softness in New Business Signings in 2023, we successfully attained the highest Total Contract Value ("TCV" as defined in Metrics section below) in several years, with an increase of 20% versus 2022. This was predominantly driven by the $1 billion TCV deal in our Transportation segment, with the State of Victoria, Australia. This is our largest TCV deal in the history of Conduent and continues to grow our international presence. Our New Business pipeline remains strong at approximately $25 billion, with significant opportunities across the portfolio. Return to Shareholders The Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, granting approval for us to repurchase up to $75 million of our common stock over the next three years (see additional information included in Part II, Item 5). Through December 31, 2023, we acquired $27 million worth of our shares under this share repurchase program. Significant 2022 Actions Disposition and Portfolio Review On February 8, 2022, we closed a transaction with Symplr Software, Inc. to sell our Midas suite of patient safety, quality and advanced analytics solutions ("Midas business") for cash consideration of $322 million resulting in a pre-tax gain of $166 million. The Midas business represented approximately $7 million, $70 million and $72 million of revenue in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Refer to Note 4 Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale and Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional CNDT 2023 Annual Report 33 Table of Contents information. During the fourth quarter of 2022, we concluded our long-range planning processes which included a full evaluation of our portfolio of solutions and identified incremental opportunities to streamline the portfolio. New Business Signings In 2022 we introduced a new primary signings metric Annual Contract Value ("ACV" as defined in Metrics section below), which provides more focus on the near-term revenue generation of new business signings as compared to the traditional view of TCV. This ACV metric increased sequentially each quarter in 2022, totaling $724 million in 2022, an increase of 16.8% versus 2021 excluding the impact of Government stimulus payments. Strategic Growth Efforts During the latter part of 2022, we dedicated a small number of senior associates with the mission to accelerate future revenue growth by selling existing solutions into new and adjacent markets and geographies. The results of this action started to become visible, for example, by the collaboration with a major bank to launch a Digital Payments Hub delivering faster, easier, and more secure payments. Operational Service LevelsWe continued to make significant improvements with our operational and technology service levels, and while we will always believe there is room for improvement in these areas, we have reached a standard consistent with the markets that we operate in. These operational improvements together with the significant progress being made in closing out major litigation cases, positioned us well with a solid foundation to embark on the next chapter of our journey. Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Uncertainty Given the nature of our business and our global operations, the effects of global macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Financial Information The section below provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. See Item 7. MD&AFinancial Information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, for a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations between 2022 and 2021. Year Ended December 31, 2023 vs. 2022 (in millions) 2023 2022 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 3,722 $ 3,858 $ (136) (4) % Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of services (excluding depreciation and amortization) 2,888 3,018 $ (130) (4) % Selling, general and administrative (excluding depreciation and amortization) 458 440 $ 18 4 % Research and development (excluding depreciation and amortization) 7 7 % Depreciation and amortization 264 230 34 15 % Restructuring and related costs 62 39 23 59 % Interest expense 111 84 27 32 % Goodwill impairment 287 358 (71) (20) % (Gain) loss on divestitures and transaction costs, net 10 (158) 168 (106) % Litigation settlements (recoveries), net (30) (32) 2 (6) % Other (income) expenses, net (3) (1) (2) 200 % Total Operating Costs and Expenses 4,054 3,985 69 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes (332) (127) (205) Income tax expense (benefit) (36) 55 (91) Net Income (Loss) $ (296) $ (182) $ (114) CNDT 2023 Annual Report 34 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue for 2023 decreased 4%, compared to the prior year, primarily due to lost business from prior periods and non-repeating items in the prior year including recognition of the revenue benefit associated with an annual minimum volume commitment contract with a large client in our Commercial segment and federal stimulus revenue in our Government segment. These were partially offset by higher interest rates positively impacting our BenefitWallet business and new business ramp in our Government segment. Cost of Services (excluding depreciation and amortization) Cost of services for 2023 decreased 4%, compared to the prior year, primarily driven by the impact of reduced revenue, increased operational efficiency and a $17 million reversal of liabilities due to the settlement of the Cognizant matter described in Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") (excluding depreciation and amortization) SG&A for 2023 increased 4%, compared to the prior year, primarily driven by the absence of the recovery of $14 million of defense costs as part of the settlement with insurance carriers relating to the previously disclosed State of Texas matter that occurred in 2022. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization for 2023 increased 15% compared to the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by the write-off of capitalized software costs totaling $25 million, stemming from managements decision to abandon an internal use software product and a decision by a customer to not implement a product software solution. Restructuring and Related Costs We engage in a series of restructuring programs related to downsizing our employee base, reducing our real estate footprint, exiting certain activities, outsourcing certain internal functions, consolidating our data centers and engaging in other actions designed to reduce our cost structure and improve productivity. The following are the components of our Restructuring and related costs: Year Ended December 31, (in millions, except headcount in whole numbers) 2023 2022 Severance and related costs $ 29 $ 14 Data center consolidation costs 9 10 Termination, insourcing and asset impairment costs(1) 24 13 Total Net Current Period Charges 62 37 Consulting and other costs(2) 2 Restructuring and Related Costs $ 62 $ 39 Reduction in headcount(3) 700 800 __________ (1)2023 costs represent costs incurred for disengagement from a significant IT outsourcing provider. (2)2022 costs represent professional support costs associated with certain strategic transformation programs. (3)Relates to approximate headcount reductions worldwide associated with Severance and related costs. Severance and related costs for 2023 include costs related to the closure of one of our Commercial segment operations in Europe. Refer to Note 9 Restructuring Programs and Related Costs to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 35 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense represents interest on long-term debt and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The increase in Interest expense for 2023, compared to the prior year, was driven primarily by higher interest rates on our variable rate debt, including finance leases and other debt. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Goodwill Impairment The goodwill impairment for 2023 is related to the write-down of the carrying value of the Commercial reporting unit. This resulted from the evaluation of goodwill triggered by entering into the Custodial Transfer and Asset Purchase Agreement to transfer our BenefitWallet health savings account and medical savings account portfolio. The goodwill impairment for 2022 related to the write-down of the carrying value of the Commercial reporting unit. Refer to Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Netto the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these impairments. (Gain) Loss on Divestitures and Transaction Costs The divestiture of the Midas business in the first quarter of 2022 resulted in a pre-tax gain of $166 million. Additionally, this financial statement line item also includes professional fees and other costs associated with both consummated and non-consummated transactions considered by us. Litigation Settlements (Recoveries), Net Litigation settlements (recoveries), net for 2023 primarily consisted of a $26 million reversal of reserves due to the settlement of the Cognizant matter and an $8 million reversal of reserves related to our former student loan business. The amount for 2022 primarily consisted of $24 million of insurance recoveries recorded in the first quarter of 2022 related to the previously disclosed State of Texas matter. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these matters. Other (Income) Expenses, Net Other (income) expenses, net for 2023 and 2022 primarily includes interest income on cash investments, accounts receivable factoring fees and foreign currency transaction losses (gains). Income Taxes The 2023 effective tax rate was 10.7%, compared to (43.9)% for 2022. The 2023 rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21% due to non-deductible expenses, primarily the non-deductible Commercial reporting unit goodwill impairment, geographic mix of income and return to provision adjustments, partially offset by tax benefits related to tax settlements and reversal of reserves. The 2022 rate was negative and lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to pre-tax book loss, an increase in taxes due to the geographic mix of income and non-deductible expenses, primarily driven by book and tax basis difference in the Midas divestiture goodwill and the Commercial reporting unit goodwill impairment. Excluding the impact of the goodwill impairment, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, litigation reserve releases and certain discrete tax items, the normalized effective tax rate for 2023 was 107.3%. The rate is anomalous due to small adjusted pre-tax income and tax which is a result of geographic mix of income and valuation allowances against losses in certain jurisdictions resulting in no tax benefit. The 2022 rate was 34.3% excluding the impact of amortization, restructuring, the divestiture of the Midas business, insurance recoveries, goodwill impairment and discrete tax items. In recent months, government agencies and global organizations have had an increased focus on the issues of taxation of multinational corporations. At both the European Union and Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development level, significant developments are anticipated regarding global tax initiatives in 2024. The Company is monitoring such developments and assessing any potential impact and disclosure requirement. We do not anticipate a material impact based on current guidance. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 36 Table of Contents Operations Review of Segments Our financial performance is based on Segment Profit (Loss) and Segment Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") for the following three segments: Commercial, Government, and Transportation. Divestitures includes our Midas business, which was sold in the first quarter of 2022. Unallocated Costs includes IT infrastructure costs that are shared by multiple reportable segments, enterprise application costs and certain corporate overhead expenses not directly attributable or allocated to our reportable segments. The section below provides a comparative discussion of our financial performance by segment between the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. See Item 7. MD&A - Operations Review of Segments in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 for a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations by segment between 2022 and 2021. Segment Performance Review (in millions) Commercial Government Transportation Divestitures Unallocated Costs Total Year Ended Dec 31, 2023 Total Revenue $ 1,932 $ 1,094 $ 696 $ $ $ 3,722 Segment profit (Loss) $ 134 $ 284 $ (2) $ $ (304) $ 112 Segment depreciation and amortization $ 140 $ 41 $ 43 $ $ 36 $ 260 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 274 $ 325 $ 41 $ $ (262) $ 378 % of Total Revenue 51.9 % 29.4 % 18.7 % % % 100.0 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin(1)(2) 14.2 % 29.7 % 5.9 % % % 10.2 % Year Ended Dec 31, 2022 Total Revenue $ 1,992 $ 1,150 $ 709 $ 7 $ $ 3,858 Segment profit (Loss) $ 124 $ 294 $ 49 $ 2 $ (293) $ 176 Segment depreciation and amortization $ 102 $ 37 $ 35 $ $ 46 $ 220 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 226 $ 331 $ 84 $ 2 $ (247) $ 396 % of Total Revenue 51.6 % 29.8 % 18.4 % 0.2 % % 100.0 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin(1)(2) 11.3 % 28.8 % 11.8 % 28.6 % % 10.3 % (1) Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. (2) Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated as Adjusted EBITDA divided by Total Revenue. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 37 Table of Contents (in millions) Year Ended December 31, Segment Profit (Loss) Reconciliation to Pre-tax Income (Loss) and Adjusted EBITDA 2023 2022 2021 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes $ (332) $ (127) $ (25) Reconciling items: Amortization of acquired intangible assets 7 13 135 Restructuring and related costs 62 39 45 Interest expense 111 84 55 Loss on extinguishment of debt 15 Goodwill impairment 287 358 (Gain) loss on divestitures and transaction costs, net 10 (158) 3 Litigation settlements (recoveries), net (30) (32) 3 Other (income) expenses, net (3) (1) 6 Segment Pre-Tax Income (Loss) $ 112 $ 176 $ 237 Segment depreciation and amortization 260 220 218 Abandonment of internal project 32 Other adjustments(1) 6 Adjusted EBITDA $ 378 $ 396 $ 487 (1)Represents a termination for convenience fee related to the termination of a contract with a significant IT outsourcing provider, which is reported in Cost of Services on the Consolidated Statements of Income. Commercial Segment Revenue Commercial segment revenue for 2023 decreased, compared to the prior year, driven by lost business, lower volumes in certain industries within our client base and non-repeating items in the prior year, partially offset by new business ramp and higher interest rates positively impacting our BenefitWallet business. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Commercial segment profit for 2023 increased compared to the prior year and was positively impacted by higher interest rates positively impacting our BenefitWallet business and cost efficiency, partially offset by a write-off of capitalized software totaling $25 million stemming from managements decision to abandon an internal use software product and a decision by a customer to not implement a product software solution. Commercial segment adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2023 also increased compared to the prior year primarily driven by the segment profit drivers mentioned above, partially offset by the impact of reduced revenue and the non-repeating items in the prior year. Government Segment Revenue Government segment revenue for 2023 decreased, compared to the prior year, primarily driven by lost business from prior years, non-repeating federal stimulus revenue in the prior year and the impact of an out of period adjustment of $7 million in the first quarter of 2023. These were partially offset by the ramping of new business in Government Healthcare solutions, higher volumes in Government services solutions and a contractual change to a client implementation positively impacting revenue recognition. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Government segment profit for 2023 decreased slightly compared to the prior year and was impacted by lost business, the high margin non-repeating federal stimulus revenue in the prior year and the out of period adjustment in the first quarter of 2023 as well as by higher depreciation driven by the deployment of our new modularized CMdS platform in our Government Healthcare Solutions business. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 38 Table of Contents Government segment adjusted EBITDA for 2023 decreased slightly compared to the prior year due to the Government segment profit drivers, excluding depreciation, mentioned above. These were partially offset by the $17 million reversal of reserves due to the settlement of the Cognizant matter, a contractual change to a client implementation positively impacting revenue recognition and cost efficiency. Government segment adjusted EBITDA margin for 2023 increased compared to the prior year mainly due to the mix of adjusted EBITDA variances mentioned above on lower revenue. Transportation Segment Revenue Transportation revenue for 2023 decreased compared to the prior year, primarily driven by extended completion timelines on our larger implementations to meet client requirements, which affected the recognition timeframe for revenue, the completion of smaller projects in our Transit solutions service offering and lost business from prior years, partially offset by new business and favorable exchange rate movement, particularly the Euro. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Transportation segment profit, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2023 all decreased primarily due to extended completion timelines on our larger implementations to meet client requirements, which affected the recognition timeframe for revenue and the completion of smaller projects in our Transit solutions service offering. Divestitures Revenue, Segment Profit (Loss) and Adjusted EBITDA The decline in revenue, segment profit and Adjusted EBITDA for 2023 was primarily due to the sale of the Midas Suite of products in 2022. The prior year included activity through the date of disposition whereas there was no activity in the current year. Unallocated Costs Unallocated Costs for 2023 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to the prior year reflecting the recovery of $14 million of defense costs as part of the settlement with insurance carriers relating to the previously disclosed State of Texas matter, and expense credits in the prior year. Metrics Metrics We use metrics to evaluate our business, determine the allocation of our resources, make decisions regarding corporate strategies and evaluate forward-looking projections and trends affecting our business. We disclose these metrics to provide transparency in our performance trends. We discuss certain key metrics, including Signings and Net ARR Activity below. Signings Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. TCV is the estimated total contractual revenue related to signed contracts. TCV signings is defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Due to the inconsistency of when existing contracts end, quarterly and yearly comparisons may not provide an accurate measure of renewal performance. The Annual Contract Value ("ACV") for new business is calculated by dividing the TCV by the contract term, in months, and then multiplying by 12 to obtain an annual measure. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company signed $639 million of new business ACV, including the May 2023 award of a significant contract in the Transportation segment. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 39 Table of Contents For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company signed $2,257 million of new business TCV, representing a 20% increase compared to the prior year. Renewal TCV for the year ended December 31, 2023 was $2,341 million, a decrease of 5% compared to the prior year due to timing on renewals; however, the renewal rate for the year ended December 31, 2023 was consistent with the prior year. The amounts in the following table exclude the impact of divestitures. Year Ended December 31, 2023 vs. 2022 (in millions) 2023 2022(3) $ Change % Change New business ACV $ 639 $ 732 $ (93) (13) % New business TCV $ 2,257 $ 1,887 $ 370 20 % Renewals TCV 2,341 2,477 (136) (5) % Total Signings $ 4,598 $ 4,364 $ 234 5 % New business annual recurring revenue (ARR) signings(1) $ 317 $ 403 $ (86) (21) % New business non-recurring revenue (NRR) signings(2) $ 593 $ 444 $ 149 34 % ___________ (1)New business ARR measures the revenue from recurring services provided to the client for any new business signing. ARR represents the recurring services provided to a customer with the opportunity for renewal at the end of the contract term. (2)New business NRR measures the non-recurring revenue for any new business signing, including (i) signing value of any contract with term less than 12 months and (ii) signing value of project-based revenue, not expected to continue long term. (3)Adjusted to remove Midas new business signings. The total new business pipeline at the end of December 31, 2023 and 2022 was $24.8 billion and $22.6 billion, respectively. Total new business pipeline is defined as total new business TCV pipeline of deals in all sell stages. This extends past the next twelve-month period to include total pipeline, excluding the impact of divested business as required. Net ARR Activity The Net ARR Activity metric is defined as Projected Annual Recurring Revenue for contracts signed in the prior 12 months, less the annualized impact of any client losses, contractual volume and price changes, and other known impacts for which the Company was notified in that same time period, which could positively or negatively impact results. The metric annualizes the net impact to revenue. Timing of revenue impact varies and may not be realized within the forward 12-month timeframe. The metric is for indicative purposes only. This metric excludes COVID-related volume impacts and non-recurring revenue signings. This metric is not indicative of any specific 12-month timeframe. The Net ARR Activity metric for the trailing twelve months for each of the prior five quarters was as follows: (in millions) December 31, 2023 $ 62 September 30, 2023 103 June 30, 2023 137 March 31, 2023 108 December 31, 2022 114 Capital Resources and Liquidity As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, total cash and cash equivalents were $498 million (of which approximately $143 million was cash in foreign locations) and $582 million (of which approximately $111 million was cash in foreign locations), respectively. We also have a $550 million Revolving Credit Facility for our various cash needs, of which none has been utilized for borrowings and $2 million has been utilized for letters of credit as of December 31, 2023. On February 11, 2022, we repaid the then-outstanding borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility of $100 million. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 40 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2023, there was a total of $1,263 million of outstanding borrowings under our Term Loan A, Term Loan B and Senior Notes, of which $18 million was due within one year. Additionally, as of December 31, 2023, we had $16 million of finance lease and other debt due within one year. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our debt. To provide financial flexibility and finance certain investments and projects, we may continue to utilize external financing arrangements. However, we believe that our cash on hand, projected cash flow from operations, sound balance sheet and our Revolving Credit Facility will continue to provide sufficient financial resources to meet our expected business obligations for at least the next twelve months. Cash Flow Analysis The following summarizes our cash flows for the two years ended December 31, 2023, as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements: Year Ended December 31, Change (in millions) 2023 2022 2023 vs. 2022 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 89 $ 144 $ (55) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (93) 173 (266) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (81) (131) 50 Operating Activities The net decrease in cash flow provided by operating activities of $55 million was primarily related to the absence of the $38 million of insurance recoveries related to the State of Texas matter in 2022, higher net cash interest payments, the negative impact of the sales of accounts receivable as described below and higher restructuring payments, all partially offset by lower cash income taxes. Investing Activities The decrease in cash provided by investing activities of $266 million was primarily due to the proceeds from the divestiture of the Midas business in the prior year. This was partially offset by planned decreased capital spending in the current year. Financing Activities The decrease in cash used in financing activities was mainly driven by the repayment of the $100 million borrowed under the revolver in the prior year. This was partially offset by the purchase of treasury stock under our share repurchase program of $27 million, higher scheduled debt repayments and higher taxes paid for settlement of stock-based compensation. Sales of Accounts Receivable The net impact from the sales of accounts receivable on net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021 was $(4) million, $54 million and $(10) million, respectively. The net impact from the sales of accounts receivable represents the difference between current and prior year fourth quarter accounts receivable sales adjusted for the effects of collections prior to the end of the year. Financial Instruments Refer to Note 12 Financial Instruments to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Material Cash Requirements from Contractual Obligations We believe our balances of cash and cash equivalents, which totaled $498 million as of December 31, 2023, along with cash generated by operations and amounts available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements over the next 12 months and beyond. At December 31, 2023, our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 41 Table of Contents Debt As of December 31, 2023, we had total outstanding debt, including Finance leases, with floating and fixed rates totaling $1,300 million, of which $34 million was due within 12 months. Future interest payments associated with this debt, which has maturities through 2029, are forecast to be $559 million, of which $103 million is due within 12 months. Refer to Note 11 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Operating Leases In the ordinary course of business, we enter into operating lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities. As of December 31, 2023, total fixed lease payables were $251 million, of which $69 million was due within 12 months. Refer to Note 7 Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Estimated Purchase Commitments We have committed to purchasing certain materials and services to support our operations. The total of these commitments was $312 million as of December 31, 2023, of which $104 million is due within the next 12 months. Other Contingencies and Commitments As more fully discussed in Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement law; intellectual property law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"); and other laws and regulations. In addition, guarantees, indemnifications and claims may arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers and customers. Nonperformance under a contract including a guarantee, indemnification or claim could trigger an obligation of the Company. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. Should developments in any of these areas cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2023, we do not believe we have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In addition, refer to the preceding discussion of the Company's contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contingencies, guarantees and indemnifications. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 42 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements giving due consideration to materiality. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Senior management has discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies, estimates and related disclosures included herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We consider these as critical to understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, as their application places the most significant demands on management's judgment, since financial reporting results rely on estimates of the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. In instances where different estimates could have reasonably been used, we disclose the impact of these different estimates on our operations. In certain instances, the accounting rules are prescriptive; therefore, it would not have been possible to reasonably use different estimates. Changes in assumptions and estimates are reflected in the period in which they occur. The impact of such changes could be material to our results of operations and financial condition in any quarterly or annual period. Specific risks associated with these critical accounting policies are discussed in MD&A, where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale We classify assets as held for sale in the period when the following conditions are met: (i) management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the asset (disposal group); (ii) the asset (disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (disposal group); (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required to complete the plan to sell the asset (disposal group) have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the asset (disposal group) is probable, and transfer of the asset (disposal group) is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year, except if events or circumstances beyond our control extend the period of time required to sell the asset (disposal group) beyond one year; (v) the asset (disposal group) is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and (vi) actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. A long-lived asset (disposal group) that is classified as held for sale is initially measured at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less any costs to sell. Any loss resulting from this measurement is recognized in the period in which the held for sale criteria are met. Conversely, gains are not recognized on the sale of a long-lived asset (disposal group) until the date of sale. The fair value of a long-lived asset (disposal group) less any costs to sell is assessed each reporting period it remains classified as held for sale and any subsequent changes are reported as an adjustment to the carrying value of the asset (disposal group), as long as the new carrying value does not exceed the carrying value of the asset at the time it was initially classified as held for sale. Upon determining that a long-lived asset (disposal group) meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, the Company reports the assets and liabilities of the disposal group in the line items Assets held for sale and Liabilities held for sale, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer to Note 4 Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale and Divestitures to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Revenue Recognition Application of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2 Revenue to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 43 Table of Contents Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized but rather tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that impairment may have been incurred. Events or circumstances that might indicate an interim evaluation is warranted include, among other things, unexpected adverse business conditions, macro and reporting unit specific economic factors, supply costs, unanticipated adverse events or conditions impacting revenues, cash flows or profitability, unanticipated competitive activities and acts by governments and courts. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our goodwill policies. Application of the interim and annual goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units and the assessment of the fair value of each reporting unit. We currently have three reporting units which correlate to our three reportable segments: Commercial, Government and Transportation. Interim Goodwill Impairment Evaluation In September 2023, we entered into the Purchase Agreement to transfer our BenefitWallet health savings account and medical savings account portfolio (collectively, the "Portfolio"), which is reported within our Commercial segment. Since the Purchase Agreement does not represent a disposition of a business, no goodwill was allocated to the Portfolio related to this transaction. Consequently, the Purchase Agreement was identified as a triggering event for the Commercial reporting unit that required us to evaluate goodwill for impairment. This evaluation resulted in a full impairment of the Commercial reporting unit's goodwill, totaling $287 million. The impairment charge was primarily driven by the Purchase Agreement and was recognized during the quarter ended September 30, 2023. The fair values of the goodwill impairment charge were estimated based on a determination of the implied fair value of goodwill, leveraging the results from the Income Approach and Market Approach. The most significant assumptions used in the goodwill analysis relate to revenue growth rates, discount rate and long-term organic growth rate. Annual Goodwill Impairment Evaluation Our annual quantitative impairment test of goodwill was performed as of October 1, 2023. Goodwill is tested for impairment using a qualitative assessment and/or a quantitative assessment. In our quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit by weighting the results from the Income Approach (discounted cash flow methodology) and Market Approach. The Income Approach utilizes a discounted cash flow analysis based upon the forecasted future business results of its reporting units. The Market Approach utilizes the guideline public company method. These valuation approaches require significant judgment and consider several factors that include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry. In addition, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding the current economic environment, industry factors and the future profitability of our businesses. When performing our discounted cash flow analysis for each reporting unit, we incorporate the use of projected financial information and discount rates that are developed using market participant-based assumptions. The cash-flow projections are based on three-year financial forecasts developed by management that include revenue and expense projections, restructuring activities, capital spending trends and investment in working capital to support anticipated revenue growth or other changes in the business. The selected discount rates consider the risk and nature of the respective reporting units' cash flows, appropriate capital structure and rates of return that market participants would require to invest their capital in our reporting units. We believe these assumptions are appropriate and reflect our forecasted long-term business model and consider our historical results as well as the current economic environment and markets that we serve. The most significant assumptions used in the goodwill analysis relate to discount rates and long-term organic growth rates. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 44 Table of Contents Based on our quantitative assessments, we concluded that the fair value of our Government and Transportation reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values and, accordingly, we did not record any goodwill impairment charge as a result of our annual quantitative impairment test of goodwill as of October 1, 2023. If we used different assumptions for discount rates or long-term organic growth rates in these annual assessments, our calculated fair values of our reporting units could be higher or lower which could result in a goodwill impairment. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our provision will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events such as audit settlements, tax law changes, changes in valuation allowances and other factors, that may not be predictable. In the event there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized in our operating results, the taxes attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time item. We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We follow very specific and detailed guidelines in each tax jurisdiction regarding the recoverability of any tax assets recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provide valuation allowances as required. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Gross deferred tax assets of $253 million and $239 million had valuation allowances of $100 million and $102 million at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of such matters. In addition, when applicable, we adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. Our ongoing assessments of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of examinations and related tax positions require judgment and can materially increase or decrease our effective tax rate, as well as impact our operating results. Unrecognized tax benefits were $10 million, $12 million and $23 million at December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Refer to Note 15 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding deferred income taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. Loss Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure considering all available information including, but not limited to, the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other updated information and events pertaining to a particular matter. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. The estimated losses are recorded within Litigation settlements (recoveries), net in the Company's income statement. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. Our policy is to expense legal defense costs related to such matters as incurred. These costs are recorded within Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company's income statement. Any insurance recoveries for litigation settlements and defense costs are recorded when such recoveries are deemed probable and collectability is reasonably assured. Such recoveries are recorded in the same financial statement line as the related costs to which the recoveries relate. Refer to Note 16 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding loss contingencies. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 45 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Changes See Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for information on accounting standards adopted during the current year, as well as recently issued accounting standards not yet required to be adopted and the expected impact of the adoption of these accounting standards. To the extent we believe the adoption of new accounting standards has had or will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, we also discuss the impact in the applicable section(s) of this MD&A. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We reported our financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (U.S. GAAP). In addition, within this Form 10-K Part II Item 7 we have discussed our financial results using non-GAAP measures. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related tax effects. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the results of the current period against the corresponding prior period. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Companys reported results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable U.S. GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management regularly uses our non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions, and providing such non-GAAP financial measures to investors allows for a further level of transparency as to how management reviews and evaluates our business results and trends. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on certain of these non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA Margin to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP are provided in the Segment Performance Review above. Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA Margin We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin as an additional way of assessing certain aspects of our operations that, when viewed with the U.S. GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding U.S. GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our on-going business. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. Adjusted EBITDA represents income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and contract inducement amortization adjusted for the following items: Amortization of acquired intangible assets. The amortization of acquired intangible assets is driven by acquisition activity, which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. Restructuring and related costs. Restructuring and related costs include restructuring and asset impairment charges as well as costs associated with our strategic transformation program. Goodwill impairment. This represents goodwill impairment charges related to entering the agreement to transfer the BenefitWallet portfolio. (Gain) loss on divestitures and transaction costs. Represents (gain) loss on divested businesses and transaction costs. Litigation settlements (recoveries), net represents settlements or recoveries for various matters subject to litigation. Other charges (credits). This includes Other (income) expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Income (loss) and other insignificant (income) expenses and other adjustments. Abandonment of Cloud Computing Project. This includes charges in connection with the abandonment of a cloud computing project. The costs include writing off previously capitalized costs and accruing remaining hosting fees that continue to be incurred without any economic benefit. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 46 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to represent cash flows from operations, operating income (loss) or net income (loss) as defined by U.S. GAAP as indicators of operating performance. Management cautions that amounts presented in accordance with Conduent's definition of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin may not be comparable to similar measures disclosed by other companies because not all companies calculate Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in the same manner. CNDT 2023 Annual Report 47 Table of Contents