ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") is intended to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of management on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and certain other factors that may affect our future results. Unless otherwise noted, transactions and other factors significantly impacting our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity are discussed in order of magnitude. Our MD&A is presented in seven sections: Overview; Financial Information; Metrics; Capital Resources and Liquidity; Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies; Recent Accounting Changes; and Non-GAAP Financial Measures. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes in this Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. This MD&A provides additional information about our operations, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. The year-over-year comparisons in this MD&A are as of and for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, unless stated otherwise. Throughout the MD&A, we refer to various notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and the information contained in such notes is incorporated by reference into the MD&A in the places where such references are made. Overview We deliver digital business solutions and services spanning the commercial, government and transportation spectrum creating valuable outcomes for our clients and the millions of people who count on them. We leverage cloud computing, artificial intelligence ("AI"), machine learning, automation and advanced analytics to deliver mission-critical solutions. Through a dedicated global team of approximately 56,000 associates, process expertise and advanced technologies, our solutions and services digitally transform our clients operations to enhance customer experiences, improve performance, increase efficiencies and reduce costs. Headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, we have operations in 24 countries as of December 31, 2024. In 2024, approximately 14% of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. These three segments are: Commercial Our Commercial segment provides business process services that span our clients' business processes end-to-end from the front-office to the back-office for a variety of commercial industries. These solutions are both cross-industry and industry-specific in nature. Across the Commercial segment, we operate on our clients behalf to deliver mission-critical solutions and services to reduce costs, improve efficiencies and enable revenue growth for our clients and better experiences for their consumers and employees. Government Our Government segment provides government-centric services and solutions to U.S. federal, state, local and foreign governments for public assistance, healthcare programs and administration, transaction CNDT 2024 Annual Report 31 Table of Contents processing, payment services and case management. In this segment, we help governments respond to changing rules for eligibility and increasing citizen expectations, modernize legacy technology systems, combat benefits fraud and shift in response to an evolving regulatory environment. Transportation Our Transportation segment provides systems, support, and revenue-generating solutions to government transportation agency clients. We deliver mission-critical tolling, transit and digital payment solutions that streamline operations, increase revenue and reduce congestion while creating safe, seamless experiences for travelers. We help transportation agencies contend with rising urbanization and mobility, the need for system efficiency and an increased focus on transportation infrastructure. Executive Summary Our intense emphasis on growth, quality, and efficiency, beginning in the first quarter of 2020, resulted in a strengthened foundation. Building on this solid foundation, during 2023, we held an investor briefing outlining our three-year strategy. We continue to execute on this strategy and remain focused on accelerating growth and enhancing value for our stakeholders. We intend to achieve this by doubling down on key themes outlined in the 2023 investor briefing including focusing on key growth areas within each of our businesses, continuing our portfolio rationalization strategy, divesting certain solutions which have either scarcity value outside of Conduent or are capital intensive relative to their growth opportunity, and taking a balanced approach to allocating capital including internal investments in our solutions, pre-paying debt and repurchasing common shares. We believe this strategy has resulted and will continue to result in a more nimble and faster growing Conduent with modest levels of net leverage, enhanced valuation, and a stronger balance sheet. Significant 2024 Actions Divestitures In 2024, we completed three divestitures as part of our portfolio rationalization strategy. During the second quarter, we completed the transfer of the BenefitWallet Portfolio for a total purchase price of $425 million and completed the sale of the Curbside Management and Public Safety businesses with a purchase price of $230 million, $50 million of which is deferred to the first half of 2025. During the third quarter, we completed the sale of the Casualty Claims Solutions Businesses with a purchase price of $224 million. Refer to Note 4 Divestitures and Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Debt Prepayment In 2024, we utilized a portion of the proceeds from the closing of our divestitures to voluntarily prepay all of the principal ($502 million) of the Term Loan B and $137 million of the Term Loan A. Refer to Note 10 Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Icahn Share Repurchase During the second quarter of 2024, we entered into a purchase agreement with Carl C. Icahn and certain of his affiliates pursuant to which we purchased an aggregate of approximately 38 million shares of our common stock, at a price of $3.47 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $132 million. We utilized a portion of the proceeds from the closing of our divestitures to fund the purchase. Refer to Note 16 Common Stock and Preferred Stock in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Share Repurchases In 2024, we completed our previously approved $75 million share repurchase program and bought back a total of 14 million shares of common stock. Leadership Updates In 2024, we continued to enhance our leadership team and appointed a new Group President of the Commercial segment and a new Head of Government Solutions. Significant 2023 Actions Strategic Growth Efforts During 2023, we continued to see opportunities in our Government Healthcare segment, particularly with our cloud-native Medicaid Claims solution, and we now have a number of significant implementations underway in the space. Our pipeline of opportunities remains strong in this area. We also continued to make progress with our Immediate Payments offering, laying the marketing and educational foundation with our existing clients, and enhancing our partnership strategy. We were the first organization to CNDT 2024 Annual Report 32 Table of Contents execute transactions over the newly implemented FedNow capability and we anticipate an acceleration of new business signings to occur in 2024. New Business Signings Successfully attained the highest Total Contract Value ("TCV" as defined in Metrics section below) in several years, with an increase of 20% versus 2022. This was predominantly driven by the $1 billion TCV deal in our Transportation segment, with the State of Victoria, Australia. This is our largest TCV deal in the history of Conduent and continues to grow our international presence. Share Repurchases The Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program, granting approval for us to repurchase up to $75 million of our common stock over the next three years. In 2023, 9 million shares were repurchased under this program. This program was completed in September 2024. Macroeconomic and Geopolitical Uncertainty Given the nature of our business and our global operations, the effects of global macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Financial Information The section below provides a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. See Item 7. MD&A Financial Information in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023, for a comparative discussion of our consolidated results of operations between 2023 and 2022. Year Ended December 31, 2024 vs. 2023 (in millions) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 3,356 $ 3,722 $ (366) (10) % Operating Costs and Expenses Cost of services (excluding depreciation and amortization) 2,730 2,888 $ (158) (5) % Selling, general and administrative (excluding depreciation and amortization) 455 458 $ (3) (1) % Research and development (excluding depreciation and amortization) 6 7 (1) (14) % Depreciation and amortization 204 264 (60) (23) % Restructuring and related costs 46 62 (16) (26) % Interest expense 75 111 (36) (32) % Loss on extinguishment of debt 8 8 n/m Goodwill impairment 28 287 (259) (90) % (Gain) loss on divestitures and transaction costs, net (696) 10 (706) n/m Litigation settlements (recoveries), net 9 (30) 39 (130) % Other (income) expenses, net (13) (3) (10) 333 % Total Operating Costs and Expenses 2,852 4,054 (1,202) Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 504 (332) 836 Income tax expense (benefit) 78 (36) 114 Net Income (Loss) $ 426 $ (296) $ 722 Revenue Revenue for 2024 decreased 10%, compared to the prior year, over half of which was due to the impact of the BenefitWallet Portfolio transfer and the sales of the Curbside Management and Public Safety Solutions and Casualty Claims Solutions businesses. In addition to the divestitures impact, lost business across our three segments was partially offset by new business ramp. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 33 Table of Contents Cost of Services (excluding depreciation and amortization) Cost of services for 2024 decreased 5%, compared to the prior year, approximately three quarters of which was primarily driven by the impact of the transfer of the BenefitWallet Portfolio and the sales of the Curbside Management and Public Safety Solutions and Casualty Claims Solutions businesses. In addition to the divestitures impact, lower expenses on lower revenues and cost optimizations contributed to the decrease and were partially offset by the absence of a $17 million benefit from reversal of liabilities due to the settlement of the Cognizant matter in the prior year. We expect Cost of services to decline in 2025 as a result of cost actions to be implemented throughout the year. Selling, General and Administrative ("SG&A") (excluding depreciation and amortization) SG&A for 2024 decreased 1%, compared to the prior year, primarily driven by the impact of the sales of the Curbside Management and Public Safety Solutions and Casualty Claims Solutions businesses. Cost efficiencies were partially offset by costs to transition away from a technology vendor. We expect SG&A to decline in 2025 as a result of cost actions to be implemented throughout the year. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization for 2024 decreased 23% compared to the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by the impact of the sales of the Curbside Management and Public Safety Solutions and Casualty Claims Solutions businesses, a prior year write-off of capitalized software costs in our Commercial segment totaling $25 million, older assets becoming fully depreciated and planned lower capital investments in the past few years. Restructuring and Related Costs We engage in a series of restructuring programs related to downsizing our employee base, reducing our real estate footprint, exiting certain activities, outsourcing certain internal functions, consolidating our data centers and engaging in other actions designed to reduce our cost structure and improve productivity. The following are the components of our Restructuring and related costs: Year Ended December 31, (in millions, except headcount in whole numbers) 2024 2023 Severance and related costs(1) $ 21 $ 29 Data center consolidation costs 5 9 Termination, insourcing and asset impairment costs(2) 16 24 Total Net Current Period Charges 42 62 Consulting and other costs 4 Restructuring and Related Costs $ 46 $ 62 Reduction in headcount(3) 600 700 __________ (1)2023 includes costs related to the closure of one of our Commercial segment operations in Europe. (2)Includes costs in 2024 and 2023 incurred for disengagement from a significant IT outsourcing provider. (3)Relates to approximate headcount reductions worldwide associated with Severance and related costs. Refer to Note 8 Restructuring Programs and Related Costs to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs. Interest Expense Interest expense represents interest on long-term debt and the amortization of debt issuance costs. The decrease in Interest expense for 2024, compared to the prior year, was driven primarily by lower debt balances as we utilized proceeds from divestitures closed in 2024 to voluntarily prepay all of our Term Loan B and a portion of our Term Loan A. Refer to Note 10 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 34 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairment The goodwill impairment for 2024 is related to the write-down of the Transportation reporting unit's goodwill arising from the annual goodwill impairment test. The impairment in 2023 is related to the write-down of the carrying value of the Commercial reporting unit. This resulted from the evaluation of goodwill triggered by entering into the Custodial Transfer and Asset Purchase Agreement to transfer our BenefitWallet Portfolio. Refer to Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Netto the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these impairments. (Gain) Loss on Divestitures and Transaction Costs Our 2024 divestitures resulted in gains of $721 million. Additionally, we recorded a $3 million gain adjustment related to a prior year divestiture following the partial settlement of the Skyview matter. This financial statement line also includes professional fees and other costs associated with both consummated and non-consummated transactions totaling $30 million and $10 million in 2024 and 2023, respectively. The 2024 amount also includes a $2 million reimbursement of previously incurred legal fees related to the partial settlement of the Skyview matter. Refer to Note 4 Divestitures and Assets/Liabilities Held for Sale and Note 15 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these matters. Litigation Settlements (Recoveries), Net Litigation settlements (recoveries), net for 2023 primarily consisted of a $26 million reversal of reserves due to the settlement of the Cognizant matter and an $8 million reversal of reserves related to our former student loan business. There were no individually significant items in 2024. Refer to Note 15 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these matters. Other (Income) Expenses, Net Other (income) expenses, net for 2024 and 2023 primarily includes interest income on cash investments, accounts receivable factoring fees and foreign currency transaction losses (gains). The increase in 2024 is primarily due to interest income of $8 million related to the partial settlement of the Skyview matter. Refer to Note 15 Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Income Taxes In the fourth quarter of 2024, we implemented an internal reorganization in which we sold a portion of our top tier foreign holding company to a lower tier subsidiary. This transaction and a subsequent tax election to treat the holding company as a partnership resulted in recognition of a built-in capital loss for tax purposes that offset capital gains from divestitures resulting in net tax savings of $59 million. The determination of the tax characteristic of this transaction requires management to make judgments about the application of tax laws and regulations. The United States Internal Revenue Service could determine a different tax treatment that would have an adverse impact on the Company. However, the Company has obtained advice from its third-party advisor concluding that the current tax treatment should prevail on its merits. The 2024 effective tax rate was 15.5%, compared to 10.7% for 2023. The 2024 rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21% due to favorable permanent adjustments from the internal reorganization and outside basis on a stock sale partially offset by the non-deductible Transportation reporting unit goodwill impairment, tax reserves and geographic mix of income. The 2023 rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate of 21%, primarily due to the non-deductible Commercial reporting unit goodwill impairment, geographic mix of income and return to provision adjustments, partially offset by tax benefits related to tax settlements and reversal of reserves. Excluding the impact of the internal reorganization, divestitures, goodwill impairment, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring costs and certain discrete tax items, the normalized effective tax rate for 2024 was 21.2%. The 2023 rate was 107.3% excluding the impact of goodwill impairment, amortization of intangible assets, restructuring, litigation reserve releases and certain discrete tax items. The rate was anomalous due to small adjusted pre-tax loss and tax which is a result of geographic mix of income and valuation allowances against losses in certain jurisdictions resulting in no tax benefit. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 35 Table of Contents In 2021, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development released model rules for a 15% global minimum tax, known as Pillar Two. This alternative minimum tax is treated as a period cost beginning in 2024 and does not have a material impact on the Company's financial results of operations for the current period. The Company continues to monitor legislative developments, as well as additional guidance from countries that have enacted legislation. Operations Review of Segments Our financial performance is based on Segment Profit (Loss) and Segment Adjusted Earnings before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ("Adjusted EBITDA") for the following three segments: Commercial, Government, and Transportation. Divestitures include our BenefitWallet Portfolio and our Casualty Claims Solutions businesses (both of which were reclassified from our Commercial segment) and our Curbside Management and Public Safety Solutions businesses (which was reclassified from our Transportation segment). For the year ended December 31, 2022, Divestitures also includes our Midas business, which was sold in the first quarter of 2022. Unallocated Costs includes IT infrastructure costs that are shared by multiple reportable segments, enterprise application costs and certain corporate overhead expenses not directly attributable or allocated to our reportable segments. The section below provides a comparative discussion of our financial performance by segment between the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023. The comparative discussion of our financial performance by segment between the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 is also included to reflect the impact of reclassifying divested businesses from our Commercial and Transportation segments as described above. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 36 Table of Contents Segment Performance Review Commercial Government Transportation Divestitures Unallocated Costs Total (in millions) Reportable Segments Year Ended Dec 31, 2024 Total Revenue $ 1,606 $ 984 $ 586 $ 180 $ $ 3,356 Segment profit (Loss) $ 77 $ 166 $ (25) $ 35 $ (287) $ (34) Segment depreciation and amortization $ 92 $ 44 $ 25 $ 13 $ 28 $ 202 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 169 $ 210 $ $ 48 $ (255) $ 172 % of Total Revenue 47.9 % 29.3 % 17.4 % 5.4 % % 100.0 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin(1)(2) 10.5 % 21.3 % % 26.7 % % 5.1 % Year Ended Dec 31, 2023 Total Revenue $ 1,668 $ 1,094 $ 558 $ 402 $ $ 3,722 Segment profit (Loss) $ 36 $ 284 $ (7) $ 103 $ (304) $ 112 Segment depreciation and amortization $ 129 $ 41 $ 26 $ 28 $ 36 $ 260 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 165 $ 325 $ 19 $ 131 $ (262) $ 378 % of Total Revenue 44.8 % 29.4 % 15.0 % 10.8 % % 100.0 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin(1)(2) 9.9 % 29.7 % 3.4 % 32.6 % % 10.2 % Year Ended Dec 31, 2022 Total Revenue $ 1,769 $ 1,150 $ 562 $ 377 $ $ 3,858 Segment profit (Loss) $ 71 $ 294 $ 34 $ 70 $ (293) $ 176 Segment depreciation and amortization $ 94 $ 37 $ 21 $ 22 $ 46 $ 220 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 165 $ 331 $ 55 $ 92 $ (247) $ 396 % of Total Revenue 45.8 % 29.8 % 14.6 % 9.8 % % 100.0 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin(1)(2) 9.3 % 28.8 % 9.8 % 24.4 % % 10.3 % (1) Refer to "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. (2) Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated as Adjusted EBITDA divided by Total Revenue. (in millions) Year Ended December 31, Adjusted EBITDA and Segment Profit (Loss) Reconciliation to Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes 2024 2023 2022 Adjusted EBITDA $ 172 $ 378 $ 396 Reconciling items: Segment depreciation and amortization (202) (260) (220) Other adjustments(1) (4) (6) Segment Pre-Tax Income (Loss) $ (34) $ 112 $ 176 Reconciling items: Amortization of acquired intangible assets (5) (7) (13) Restructuring and related costs (46) (62) (39) Interest expense (75) (111) (84) Loss on extinguishment of debt (8) Goodwill impairment (28) (287) (358) (Gain) loss on divestitures and transaction costs, net 696 (10) 158 Litigation settlements (recoveries), net (9) 30 32 Other (income) expenses, net 13 3 1 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes $ 504 $ (332) $ (127) (1) The 2024 amount represents a termination for convenience fee related to the termination of Convergint as a subcontractor for our State of Victoria contract. The 2023 amount represents a termination for convenience fee related to the termination of a contract with a significant IT outsourcing provider. Both the 2024 and 2023 items are reported in Cost of Services on the Consolidated Statements of Income. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 37 Table of Contents Commercial Segment Revenue Commercial segment revenue for 2024 decreased, compared to the prior year, driven by lost business and lower volumes in certain industries within our client base, partially offset by new business ramp. Commercial segment revenue for 2023 decreased, compared to the prior year, driven by lost business, lower volumes in certain industries within our client base and non-repeating items in the prior year, partially offset by new business ramp. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Commercial segment profit and Adjusted EBITDA for 2024 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to new business ramp and cost efficiencies, partially offset the impact of lost business and lower volumes. Commercial segment profit also benefited from the absence of the prior year impact of a write-off of capitalized software totaling $25 million stemming from managements decision to abandon an internal use software product and a decision by a customer to not implement a product software solution as well as fully amortized assets. Commercial segment profit for 2023 decreased compared to the prior year driven by a write-off of capitalized software totaling $25 million described above. Commercial segment Adjusted EBITDA for 2023 was unchanged from the prior year. Government Segment Revenue Government segment revenue for 2024 decreased, compared to the prior year, attributable to lost business, primarily in our Government Healthcare business, and lower volumes in our Government Services business due to the change in funding mechanism for the Electronic Benefits Transfer ("EBT") programs, partially offset by new business ramp. Government segment revenue for 2023 decreased, compared to the prior year, primarily driven by lost business from prior years, non-repeating federal stimulus revenue in the prior year and the impact of an out of period adjustment of $7 million in the first quarter of 2023. These were partially offset by the ramping of new business in Government Healthcare solutions, higher volumes in Government services solutions and a contractual change to a client implementation positively impacting revenue recognition. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Government segment profit and Adjusted EBITDA for 2024 decreased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the impact of lost business and the lower volumes mentioned above and the absence of a $17 million reversal of liabilities due to the settlement of the Cognizant matter in the prior year, partially offset by cost efficiencies. Government segment profit for 2023 decreased slightly compared to the prior year and was impacted by lost business, the high margin non-repeating federal stimulus revenue in the prior year and the out of period adjustment in the first quarter of 2023 as well as by higher depreciation driven by the deployment of our new modularized CMdS platform in our Government Healthcare Solutions business. Government segment adjusted EBITDA for 2023 decreased slightly compared to the prior year due to the Government segment profit drivers, excluding depreciation, mentioned above. These were partially offset by the $17 million reversal of reserves due to the settlement of the Cognizant matter, a contractual change to a client implementation positively impacting revenue recognition and cost efficiency. Transportation Segment Revenue Transportation revenue for 2024 increased compared to the prior year, primarily driven by the ramp of new business and improved operational performance with fewer delays from extended completion timelines compared to the prior year, partially offset by lost business, a Tolling customer price decrease and lower volumes. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 38 Table of Contents Transportation revenue for 2023 decreased compared to the prior year, primarily driven by extended completion timelines on our larger implementations to meet client requirements, which affected the recognition timeframe for revenue, the completion of smaller projects in our Transit solutions service offering and lost business from prior years, partially offset by new business and favorable exchange rate movement, particularly the Euro. Segment Profit and Adjusted EBITDA Transportation segment profit and adjusted EBITDA for 2024 decreased compared to the prior year. This was primarily due to a Tolling contract with decreased price and lower volumes attributable to a portion of the contract not being retained. This was partially offset by improved operational performance and reduced impact from extended implementation timelines compared to the prior year. Transportation segment profit, adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin for 2023 all decreased primarily due to extended completion timelines on our larger implementations to meet client requirements, which affected the recognition timeframe for revenue and the completion of smaller projects in our Transit solutions service offering. Divestitures Revenue, Segment Profit (Loss) and Adjusted EBITDA The decrease in revenue, segment profit and Adjusted EBITDA for 2024 was due to the BenefitWallet Portfolio, the Curbside Management and Public Safety Solutions businesses and Casualty Claims Solutions businesses being included for a full year in the prior year period whereas their results were only included until the date of their transfer and sale, as applicable, in 2024. The increase in revenue, segment profit and Adjusted EBITDA for 2023 was primarily due to higher interest rates positively affecting the BenefitWallet business in 2023. Unallocated Costs Unallocated Costs for 2024 decreased compared to the prior year primarily due to cost savings from insourcing certain technology functions, lower networking and corporate IT costs and lower depreciation costs as certain data center assets became fully depreciated. Unallocated Costs for 2023 increased compared to the prior year primarily due to the prior year reflecting the recovery of $14 million of defense costs as part of the settlement with insurance carriers relating to the previously disclosed State of Texas matter, and vendor credits earned in the prior year. Metrics Metrics We use metrics to evaluate our business, determine the allocation of our resources, make decisions regarding corporate strategies and evaluate forward-looking projections and trends affecting our business. We disclose these metrics to provide transparency in our performance trends. We present certain key metrics, including Signings and Net ARR Activity below. The metrics for all periods presented below have been recast to remove the activity related to the BenefitWallet Portfolio, the Casualty Claims Solutions business and the Curbside Management and Public Safety Solutions businesses. Signings Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Total Contract Value ("TCV") is the estimated total contractual revenue related to signed contracts. TCV signings is defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Due to the inconsistency of when existing contracts end, quarterly and yearly comparisons are not a good measure of renewal performance. New business Annual Contract Value ("ACV") is calculated as TCV divided by the contract term, in months, multiplied by 12 for an annual measure. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 39 Table of Contents Signing information for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2024 vs. 2023 (in millions) 2024 2023 $ Change % Change New business ACV $ 485 $ 605 $ (120) (20) % New business TCV $ 969 $ 2,104 $ (1,135) (54) % Renewals TCV 1,657 2,059 (402) (20) % Total Signings $ 2,626 $ 4,163 $ (1,537) (37) % New business annual recurring revenue (ARR) signings(1) $ 228 $ 287 $ (59) (21) % New business non-recurring revenue (NRR) signings(2) $ 309 $ 589 $ (280) (48) % ___________ (1)Recurring revenue signings are for new business contracts longer than one year. (2)Non-recurring revenue signings are for contacts shorter than one year. The total new business pipeline at the end of December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $22.2 billion and $22.8 billion, respectively. Total new business pipeline is defined as total new business TCV pipeline of deals in all sell stages. This extends past the next twelve-month period to include total pipeline, excluding the impact of divested business as required. Net ARR Activity Net ARR Activity is a metric that is defined as Projected Annual Recurring Revenue ("ARR") for contracts signed in the prior 12 months, less the annualized impact of any client losses, contractual volume and price changes, and other known impacts for which the Company was notified in that same time period, which could positively or negatively impact results. The metric annualizes the net impact to revenue. Timing of revenue impact varies and may not be realized within the forward 12-month timeframe. The metric is for indicative purposes only. This metric excludes non-recurring revenue signings. This metric is not indicative of any specific 12-month timeframe. The Net ARR Activity metric for the trailing twelve months for each of the prior five quarters was as follows: (in millions) Net ARR activity metric December 31, 2024 $ 92 September 30, 2024 46 June 30, 2024 (47) March 31, 2024 6 December 31, 2023 49 CNDT 2024 Annual Report 40 Table of Contents Capital Resources and Liquidity As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, total cash and cash equivalents were $366 million (of which approximately $140 million was cash in foreign locations) and $498 million (of which approximately $143 million was cash in foreign locations), respectively. We also have a $550 million Revolving Credit Facility for our various cash needs, of which none has been utilized for borrowings and $11 million has been utilized for letters of credit as of December 31, 2024. The amount of borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility at each quarter-end may be limited by our leverage covenant. In February 2025, the Company borrowed $50 million under the Revolving Credit Facility for working capital purposes. As of December 31, 2024, there was a total of $608 million of outstanding borrowings under our Term Loan A and Senior Notes, of which $14 million was due within one year. Additionally, as of December 31, 2024, we had $10 million of finance lease and other debt due within one year. Refer to Note 10 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our debt. To provide financial flexibility and finance certain investments and projects, we may continue to utilize external financing arrangements. However, we believe that our cash on hand, projected cash flow from operations, sound balance sheet and our Revolving Credit Facility will continue to provide sufficient financial resources to meet our expected business obligations for at least the next twelve months. Cash Flow Analysis The following summarizes our cash flows for the two years ended December 31, 2024, as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements: Year Ended December 31, Change (in millions) 2024 2023 2024 vs. 2023 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (50) $ 89 $ (139) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 795 (93) 888 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (877) (81) (796) Operating Activities The net decrease in cash flow provided by operating activities of $139 million was primarily related to lower Adjusted EBITDA due to divestitures and higher cash taxes, partially offset by improved accounts receivable Days Sales Outstanding and lower cash interest expense. Investing Activities The increase in cash provided by investing activities of $888 million was primarily due to the proceeds from our 2024 divestitures of $830 million and proceeds from the settlement of the Skyview matter related to notes receivable of $21 million. In addition, there was a planned decrease in capital spending in the current year. Financing Activities The increase in cash used in financing activities was mainly driven by the $642 million early repayment of Term Loan B and Term Loan A utilizing funds received from our divestitures. In addition, $132 million was utilized to purchase all of the common shares owned by the Icahn Parties. Sales of Accounts Receivable The net impact from the sales of accounts receivable on net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $7 million, $(4) million and $54 million, respectively. The net impact from the sales of accounts receivable represents the difference between current and prior year fourth quarter accounts receivable sales adjusted for the effects of collections prior to the end of the year. Financial Instruments Refer to Note 11 Financial Instruments to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 41 Table of Contents Material Cash Requirements from Contractual Obligations We believe our balances of cash and cash equivalents, which totaled $366 million as of December 31, 2024, along with cash generated by operations and amounts available for borrowing under our Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to satisfy our cash requirements over the next 12 months and beyond. At December 31, 2024, our material cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. Debt As of December 31, 2024, we had total outstanding debt, including Finance leases, with floating and fixed rates totaling $646 million, of which $24 million was due within 12 months. Future interest payments associated with this debt, which has maturities through 2029, are forecast to be $192 million, of which $43 million is due within 12 months. Refer to Note 10 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Operating Leases In the ordinary course of business, we enter into operating lease arrangements for certain equipment and facilities. As of December 31, 2024, total fixed lease payables were $226 million, of which $65 million was due within 12 months. Refer to Note 6 Leases to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Estimated Purchase Commitments We have committed to purchasing certain materials and services to support our operations. The total of these commitments was $348 million as of December 31, 2024, of which $147 million is due within the next 12 months. Other Contingencies and Commitments As more fully discussed in Note 15 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement law; intellectual property law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"); and other laws and regulations. In addition, guarantees, indemnifications and claims may arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers and customers. Nonperformance under a contract including a guarantee, indemnification or claim could trigger an obligation of the Company. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. Should developments in any of these areas cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Refer to Note 15 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2024, we do not believe we have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In addition, refer to the preceding discussion of the Company's contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and Note 15 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contingencies, guarantees and indemnifications. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 42 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates and Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP") requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements giving due consideration to materiality. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Senior management has discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies, estimates and related disclosures included herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We consider these as critical to understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, as their application places the most significant demands on management's judgment, since financial reporting results rely on estimates of the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. In instances where different estimates could have reasonably been used, we disclose the impact of these different estimates on our operations. In certain instances, the accounting rules are prescriptive; therefore, it would not have been possible to reasonably use different estimates. Changes in assumptions and estimates are reflected in the period in which they occur. The impact of such changes could be material to our results of operations and financial condition in any quarterly or annual period. Specific risks associated with these critical accounting policies are discussed in MD&A, where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Application of the accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 2 Revenue to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies. Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized but rather tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that impairment may have been incurred. Events or circumstances that might indicate an interim evaluation is warranted include, among other things, unexpected adverse business conditions, macro and reporting unit specific economic factors, supply costs, unanticipated adverse events or conditions impacting revenues, cash flows or profitability, unanticipated competitive activities and acts by governments and courts. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our goodwill policies. Application of the interim and annual goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units and the assessment of the fair value of each reporting unit. We currently have three reporting units which correlate to our three reportable segments: Commercial, Government and Transportation. Annual Goodwill Impairment Evaluation Our annual quantitative impairment test of goodwill was performed as of October 1, 2024. Goodwill is tested for impairment using a qualitative assessment and/or a quantitative assessment. In our quantitative assessment, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit by weighting the results from the Income Approach (discounted cash flow methodology) and Market Approach. The Income Approach utilizes a discounted cash flow analysis based upon the forecasted future business results of its reporting units. The Market Approach utilizes the guideline public company method. These valuation approaches require significant judgment and consider several factors that include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry. In addition, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding the current economic environment, industry factors and the future profitability of our businesses. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 43 Table of Contents When performing our discounted cash flow analysis for each reporting unit, we incorporate the use of projected financial information and discount rates that are developed using market participant-based assumptions. The cash-flow projections are based on three-year financial forecasts developed by management that include revenue and expense projections, restructuring activities, capital spending trends and investment in working capital to support anticipated revenue growth or other changes in the business. The selected discount rates consider the risk and nature of the respective reporting units' cash flows, appropriate capital structure and rates of return that market participants would require to invest their capital in our reporting units. We believe these assumptions are appropriate and reflect our forecasted long-term business model and consider our historical results as well as the current economic environment and markets that we serve. The most significant assumptions used in the goodwill analysis relate to discount rates and long-term organic growth rates. Based on our quantitative assessments, we concluded that the fair value of our Government reporting unit exceeded its carrying value and, accordingly, we did not record any goodwill impairment charge as a result of our annual quantitative impairment test of goodwill for this reporting unit. If we used different assumptions for discount rates or long-term organic growth rates in this annual assessment, our calculated fair values of our Government reporting unit could be higher or lower which could result in a goodwill impairment. Refer to Note 7 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impairment of the remaining goodwill in our Transportation reporting unit. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our provision will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events such as audit settlements, tax law changes, changes in valuation allowances and other factors, that may not be predictable. In the event there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized in our operating results, the taxes attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as the unusual or one-time item. We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We follow very specific and detailed guidelines in each tax jurisdiction regarding the recoverability of any tax assets recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provide valuation allowances as required. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Gross deferred tax assets of $241 million and $253 million had valuation allowances of $95 million and $100 million at December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of such matters. In addition, when applicable, we adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. Our ongoing assessments of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of examinations and related tax positions require judgment and can materially increase or decrease our effective tax rate, as well as impact our operating results. Unrecognized tax benefits were $19 million, $10 million and $12 million at December 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Refer to Note 14 Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding deferred income taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 44 Table of Contents Loss Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure considering all available information including, but not limited to, the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other updated information and events pertaining to a particular matter. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. The estimated losses are recorded within Litigation settlements (recoveries), net in the Company's income statement. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation and may revise estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. Our policy is to expense legal defense costs related to such matters as incurred. These costs are recorded within Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Company's income statement. Any insurance recoveries for litigation settlements and defense costs are recorded when such recoveries are deemed probable and collectability is reasonably assured. Such recoveries are recorded in the same financial statement line as the related costs to which the recoveries relate. Refer to Note 15 Contingencies and Litigation to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding loss contingencies. Recent Accounting Changes See Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for information on accounting standards adopted during the current year, as well as recently issued accounting standards not yet required to be adopted and the expected impact of the adoption of these accounting standards. To the extent we believe the adoption of new accounting standards has had or will have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or liquidity, we also discuss the impact in the applicable section(s) of this MD&A. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We report our financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, within this Form 10-K Part II Item 7 we have discussed our financial results using non-GAAP measures. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related tax effects. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the results of the current period compared to the corresponding prior period. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Companys reported results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable U.S. GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management regularly uses our non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions, and providing such non-GAAP financial measures to investors allows for a further level of transparency as to how management reviews and evaluates our business results and trends. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on certain of these non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA Margin to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP are provided in the Segment Performance Review above. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin as an additional way of assessing certain aspects of our operations that, when viewed with the U.S. GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding U.S. GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our on-going business. Adjusted EBITDA CNDT 2024 Annual Report 45 Table of Contents Margin is Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. Adjusted EBITDA represents income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and contract inducement amortization adjusted for the following items: Amortization of acquired intangible assets. The amortization of acquired intangible assets is driven by acquisition activity, which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. Restructuring and related costs. Restructuring and related costs include restructuring and asset impairment charges as well as costs associated with our strategic transformation program. Goodwill impairment. This represents goodwill impairment charges arising from annual or interim goodwill testing. (Gain) loss on divestitures and transaction costs. Represents (gain) loss on divested businesses and transaction costs. Litigation settlements (recoveries), net represents settlements or recoveries for various matters subject to litigation. Loss on extinguishment of debt. This represents write-off of debt issuance costs related to prepayments of debt. Other charges (credits). This includes Other (income) expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Income (loss) and other adjustments. Adjusted EBITDA is not intended to represent cash flows from operations, operating income (loss) or net income (loss) as defined by U.S. GAAP as indicators of operating performance. Management cautions that amounts presented in accordance with Conduent's definition of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin may not be comparable to similar measures disclosed by other companies because not all companies calculate Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in the same manner. CNDT 2024 Annual Report 46 Table of Contents