Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our historical financial statements and the notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Some of the contracts to be transferred or assigned to us in connection with the Internal Transactions and Distribution contain provisions that require the consent of a third party to the Internal Transactions, the Distribution or both. Failure to obtain such consents on commercially reasonable and satisfactory terms may impair our entitlement to the benefit of these contracts in the future. We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we receive in our agreements with Xerox. We entered into agreements with Xerox related to our separation from Xerox, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Transition Services Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and any other agreements, while we are still part of Xerox. Accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arms-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Xerox and us. We may have received better terms from third parties. See Certain Relationships and Related Party TransactionsAgreements with Xerox. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 20 The Spin-Off could result in significant tax liability to Xerox and its shareholders. Completion of the Spin-Off required Xeroxs receipt of a written opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP to the effect that the Distribution should qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Section 355 of the Code and the receipt and continuing effectiveness and validity of the IRS Ruling. The opinion of counsel did not address any U.S. state or local or foreign tax consequences of the Spin-Off. The opinion assumed that the Spin-Off was completed according to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement and relied on the facts as stated in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the other ancillary agreements, the Information Statement included in our registration statement on Form 10 and a number of other documents. In addition, the opinion was based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, Xerox and us. The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants are incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or are violated in any material respect. Xerox has received the IRS Ruling. The IRS Ruling relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Xerox and us regarding the past and future conduct of Xeroxs and our businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Xerox may not be able to rely on the IRS Ruling. In addition, the IRS ruling is not a comprehensive ruling from the IRS regarding all aspects of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the transactions. Accordingly, notwithstanding the opinion of counsel and the IRS Ruling, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert, or that a court would not sustain, a contrary position. If the Distribution were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. Holders could be subject to tax. In this case, each U.S. Holder who received our common stock in the Distribution would generally, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, be treated as having received a distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received, which would generally result in (i) a taxable dividend to the U.S. Holder to the extent of that U.S. Holders pro rata share of Xeroxs current and accumulated earnings and profits; (ii) a reduction in the U.S. Holders basis (but not below zero) in Xerox common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the shareholders share of Xeroxs earnings and profits; and (iii) a taxable gain from the exchange of Xerox common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the sum of the U.S. Holders share of Xeroxs earnings and profits and the U.S. Holders basis in its Xerox common stock. We could have an indemnification obligation to Xerox if the Distribution were determined not to qualify for non-recognition treatment, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If it were determined that the Distribution did not qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Section 355 of the Code, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to indemnify Xerox for the resulting taxes and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Section 355(e) of the Code generally creates a presumption that the Distribution would be taxable to Xerox, but not to shareholders, if we or our shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change by vote or value in the ownership of our stock during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the date of the Distribution, unless it were established that such transactions and the Distribution were not part of a plan or series of related transactions giving effect to such a change in ownership. If the Distribution were taxable to Xerox due to such a 50% or greater change in ownership of our stock, Xerox would recognize gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common stock distributed to Xerox shareholders over Xeroxs tax basis in our common stock and we generally would be required to indemnify Xerox for the tax on such gain and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the non-recognition treatment of the Distribution, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. We agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to covenants and indemnification obligations that address compliance with Section 355 of the Code. These covenants and indemnification obligations may limit our ability to pursue strategic Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 21 transactions or engage in new businesses or other transactions that may otherwise maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our shareholders may consider favorable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease and own numerous facilities worldwide with larger concentrations of space in Kentucky, New Jersey, California, Mexico, Guatemala, the Philippines, Jamaica, Romania and India. Our owned and leased facilities house general offices, sales offices, service locations, call centers and distribution centers. The size of our property portfolio as of December 31, 2016 was approximately 12.2 million square feet at an annual operating cost of approximately $294 million and comprised 513 leased properties and 8 owned properties. We believe that our current facilities are suitable and adequate for our current businesses. Because of the interrelation of our business segments, each of the segments use substantially all of these properties at least in part. As a result of implementing our strategic transformation program as well as various productivity initiatives, several leased and owned properties may become surplus over the next three years. We are obligated to maintain our leased surplus properties through required contractual lease periods and plan to dispose of or sublease these properties. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information set forth under Note 15 "Contingencies and Litigation" in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, which is incorporated here by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. Part II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Stock Exchange Information The common stock of Conduent Incorporated is listed on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") with the ticker symbol "CNDT." Our common stock did not begin trading until January 3, 2017. Conduent Common Stock Dividends We intend to retain future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth, We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 22 ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FIVE YEARS IN REVIEW (in millions, except per-share data) 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 (unaudited) Per-Share Data (Loss) income from continuing operations Basic $ (4.85 ) $ (1.65 ) $ 0.17 $ 0.67 $ 0.68 Diluted (4.85 ) (1.65 ) 0.17 0.67 0.68 Net (loss) income attributable to Conduent Basic (4.85 ) (2.04 ) (0.40 ) 0.90 0.84 Diluted (4.85 ) (2.04 ) (0.40 ) 0.90 0.84 Common stock dividends declared (1) Operations Revenues $ 6,408 $ 6,662 $ 6,938 $ 6,879 $ 6,873 (Loss) income from continuing operations (983 ) (336 ) 34 135 137 Net (loss) income (983 ) (414 ) (81 ) 182 170 Financial Position Working capital $ 515 $ (867 ) $ (887 ) $ (1,450 ) $ (1,975 ) Total Assets 7,709 9,058 10,954 11,205 11,217 Consolidated Capitalization Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt $ 28 $ 24 $ 268 $ 42 $ 37 Long-term debt 1,913 37 43 310 292 Total Debt (2) 1,941 61 311 352 329 Series A preferred stock 142 n/a n/a n/a n/a Conduent shareholders' equity/former parent investment 3,288 5,162 5,411 5,579 5,408 Total Consolidated Capitalization $ 5,371 $ 5,223 $ 5,722 $ 5,931 $ 5,737 Selected Data and Ratios (3) ___________ (1) We did not declare or pay dividends for the periods presented. (2) Includes capital lease obligations. (3) Selected data and ratios are not provided as the common stock of Conduent Incorporated did not begin "regular way" trading on the NYSE until January 3, 2017. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 23 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Introduction The following Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Conduent Incorporated. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. MD&A provides additional information about our operations, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Throughout the MD&A, we refer to various notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in Item 8 of this 2016 Form 10-K, and the information contained in such notes is incorporated by reference into the MD&A in the places where such references are made. Executive Overview With revenues of $6.4 billion, we are a leading provider of business process services with expertise in transaction-intensive processing, analytics and automation. We serve as a trusted business partner in both the front office and back office, enabling personalized, seamless interactions on a massive scale that improve end-user experience. Our addressable market size in the global business process service industry is estimated at nearly $260 billion. Headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, the 96,000 people of Conduent, as of December 31, 2016, serve customers in more than 40 countries. In 2016 , 11% of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. We organize our business around three main reportable segments: Commercial Industries, Healthcare and Public Sector . Our Commercial Industries segment is comprised of business process services and customized solutions offered to clients in a variety of industries (other than healthcare). Our Healthcare segment is comprised of industry-centric business process services offered to clients across the healthcare industry, including providers, payers, employers, pharmaceutical and life science companies and government agencies. Our Public Sector segment is comprised of government-centric business process services offered to U.S. federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign. Separation On December 31, 2016, Conduent Incorporated completed its Separation from Xerox Corporation and is now an independent public company trading on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "CNDT". In connection with the separation from Xerox, Conduent entered into several agreements to (1) affect the legal and structural separation of Conduent and Xerox, (2) govern the relationship between Conduent and Xerox up to and after the completion of the separation and (3) allocate between Conduent and Xerox various assets, liabilities and obligations, including, among other things, employee benefits and tax-related assets and liabilities. The agreements entered into include a separation and distribution agreement, a transition services agreement, a tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement, an intellectual property agreement and a trademark license agreement. Significant 2016 Charges Goodwill Impairment Charge As required by ASC 350 Intangibles - Goodwill and Other, we annually test the Goodwill of our reporting units for impairment. For Step 1 of the test, as in prior years, we determined the fair value of our reporting units utilizing a combination of both an Income Approach and a Market Approach to calculate fair value for each reporting units. We then compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The Income Approach utilizes a discounted cash flow analysis based upon the forecasted future business results of each reporting units. The Market Approach Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 24 utilizes the guideline public company method. We apply a two-thirds and one-third weighting to the results of the Income Approach and the Market Approach, respectively, to calculate the fair value of each reporting units. Our Commercial Industries reporting units operating results declined in 2016 versus our expectations, including a weak fourth quarter 2016. In performing Step 1 of our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2016, we determined that the carrying value of the Commercial Industries reporting unit exceeded fair value by 53%, indicating an impairment and; therefore, we performed Step 2 of the test. Our Healthcare and Public Sector reporting units passed Step 1 with fair value exceeding carrying value by 19% and 14%, respectively, and, therefore, we were not required to perform Step 2 of the test. Step 2 for the Commercial Industries reporting unit required a hypothetical purchase price allocation and the calculation of the implied fair value of goodwill. As a result of performing Step 2, we calculated a goodwill impairment of $935 million. This has been presented as Goodwill impairment, a separate line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). Refer to Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Our annual test relies upon key assumptions about revenue and profitability, including the impact of significant planned cost reductions from our Strategic Transformation program. As with any forecast, there is an element of uncertainty and management has considered this when performing the annual impairment test. Key assumptions like the discount rate we use to calculate the present value of the forecasted cash flows for each reporting unit were risk adjusted to reflect these uncertainties. If our actual operating results do not achieve the risk-adjusted forecast of revenue and profitability, or delays in achieving the benefits from the cost reductions assumed in our Strategic Transformation program occur, there is the risk of future goodwill impairments. As a result of the significant impact of the Goodwill impairment charge on our reported revenues, earnings and key metrics for the period, we also discuss our results excluding the impact of this charge. The adjusted results are noted as adjusted in the discussion below. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section for a reconciliation and explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures. NY MMIS Charge In February 2017, we determined that it is probable that we will not fully complete our New York Medicaid Management Information System ("NY MMIS") project in its current form. As a result of this decision and the application of percentage-of-completion accounting, we recorded a pre-tax charge (NY MMIS charge) of $161 million ($98 million after-tax) during the fourth quarter of 2016. The charge included $83 million for the write-off of contract receivables, which were recorded as a reduction in Revenues. In addition, in Cost of Outsourcing, we recorded a $78 million charge which included: $36 million for wind-down costs, $28 million related to the non-cash impairment of the Health Enterprise software and $14 million for the write-off of deferred contract set-up and transition costs and other related assets and liabilities. At this time, we believe we have recorded our best estimate of the financial statement impact associated with the NY MMIS contract developments; however, our estimate of the financial statement impact is subject to change once the matter is settled with the State of New York. As a result of the significant impact of the NY MMIS charge on our reported revenues, earnings and key metrics for the period, we also discuss our results excluding the impact of these charges. These adjusted results are noted as adjusted in the discussion below. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section for a reconciliation and explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures. Significant 2015 Charges Health Enterprise Charge Late in the third quarter of 2015, we determined that we would not fully complete the Health Enterprise Medicaid platform implementation projects in California and Montana. However, we would continue to process Medicaid claims using existing legacy systems in those states, thus providing uninterrupted service for the states' healthcare providers and constituents. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 25 This determination resulted in recording a pre-tax charge (HE charge) of $389 million ($237 million after-tax) in 2015. The charge included $116 million for the write-off of contract receivables (primarily non-current), $34 million related to the non-cash impairment of the HE software and deferred contract set-up transition costs and $23 million for other related assets and liabilities. The remainder of the charge was primarily related to settlement costs including payments to subcontractors resulting in cash outflows in future quarters. Of the $389 million charge, $116 million was recorded as a reduction to revenues and the remaining $273 million was recorded to Cost of outsourcing. This development followed the Government Healthcare strategy change announced in July 2015, regarding our decision to focus our future HE implementations on current Medicaid customers and to discontinue investment in and sales of the Xerox Integrated Eligibility System. This change in strategy resulted in pre-tax non-cash software platform impairment charges of $146 million ($89 million after-tax) in the second quarter 2015. As a result of the significant impact of the HE charge and the software impairment charges on our reported revenues, earnings and key metrics for the period, we are also discussing our results excluding the impact of these charges. These adjusted results are noted as adjusted in the discussion below. Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for a reconciliation and explanation of these non-GAAP financial measures. Divestitures In December 2014 , we announced an agreement to sell our Information Technology Outsourcing (ITO) business to Atos SE and began reporting it as a Discontinued Operation. The sale was completed on June 30, 2015. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Financial Overview Total revenues of $6.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2016, decreased 4%, with a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency, as compared to 2015. On an adjusted 1 basis, excluding the NY MMIS charge, total revenues decreased 4% with a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency, resulting from declines in Commercial Industries and Healthcare. Operating margin 1 of 5.5% improved 0.7-percentage points as compared to 2015, reflecting cost and productivity improvements, including benefits from our strategic transformation program, as well as lower expenses from our decision to refocus our Government Healthcare business. 2016 Net loss was $983 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The increase in loss is primarily due to the Goodwill impairment charge, the NY MMIS charge and profit declines in Commercial Industries, partially offset by profit increases in the Public Sector and Healthcare and the inclusion of the pre-tax HE charge of $389 million in 2015. Cash flow from operations was $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 as compared to $493 million in 2015 . The decrease in operating cash flow was primarily due to HE settlement payments, reduced factoring and timing of collections of accounts receivable, restructuring and separation payments. Cash provided by investing activities of $16 million primarily reflects the payments received on related party notes receivables, primarily offset by cost of additions to land, building and equipment and internal use software. Cash provided by financing activities was $132 million, primarily reflecting $1,902 million for proceeds on issuance of debt, $1,132 million of net payments on related party notes payable and $588 million for transfers to Xerox. During 2016 we began a three-year transformation program targeting cumulative cost savings of $700 million from across the business. Focus areas of the program include increasing the use of automation across service delivery solutions, improving employee utilization, reducing attrition, utilizing our global delivery network more efficiently, updating our legacy IT infrastructure and reducing spend on third-party IT vendors, achieving efficiencies in procurement, and remediating under-performing contracts. We are on track to achieve these cumulative savings through 2018. _______________ (1) Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 26 2017 Outlook Revenues - For 2017, we expect total revenues to decline similar to 2016 levels with stabilization in 2018 and building growth momentum later in the year. Investments - We plan to balance investments in the business with margin expansion and will focus on capturing market growth opportunities by aligning our businesses by industry verticals, increasing our salesforce in targeted growth areas, investing in platforms and technology and considering potential acquisitions. Currency Impact To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as currency impact or the impact from currency or "constant currency". In 2016, 2015 and 2014, this impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. Application of Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements giving due consideration to materiality. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Senior management has discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies, estimates and related disclosures included herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We consider these as critical to understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, as their application places the most significant demands on management's judgment, since financial reporting results rely on estimates of the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. In instances where different estimates could have reasonably been used, we disclosed the impact of these different estimates on our operations. In certain instances, the accounting rules are prescriptive; therefore, it would not have been possible to reasonably use different estimates. Changes in assumptions and estimates are reflected in the period in which they occur. The impact of such changes could be material to our results of operations and financial condition in any quarterly or annual period. Specific risks associated with these critical accounting policies are discussed throughout the MD&A, where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Application of the various accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - New Accounting Standards and Accounting Changes - Revenue Recognition in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies . Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 27 A significant portion of our revenue is recognized based on objective criteria that do not require significant estimates or uncertainties. For example, transaction volumes, time and material and cost reimbursable arrangements are based on specific, objective criteria under the contracts. Accordingly, revenues recognized under these contracts do not require the use of significant estimates that are susceptible to change. Revenue recognized using the percentage-of completion (POC) accounting method does require the use of estimates and judgment as discussed below. We recognize revenues when we have persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the services have been provided, the transaction price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. During 2016, approximately 81% of our revenue was recognized based on transaction volumes, approximately 7% was recognized on a fixed fee basis (wherein our revenue is earned as we fulfill our performance obligations under the arrangement), approximately 2% was related to cost reimbursable contracts, approximately 4% recognized using POC accounting and the remaining 6% was related to time and material contracts. Our revenue mix is subject to change due to the impact of changing customer requirements, acquisitions, divestitures, new business and lost business. Revenue Recognition - Percentage-of-Completion : A portion of our revenue (approximately 4%) is recognized using the percentage-of-completion (POC) accounting method. This method requires the use of estimates and judgment. Although not significant to total revenue, the POC methodology is normally applied to certain of our larger and longer term outsourcing contracts involving system development and implementation, primarily in government healthcare and certain government transportation contracts. In addition, we had unbilled receivables totaling $279 million and $289 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015 , respectively, representing revenues recognized but not yet billable under the terms of our POC contracts. The POC accounting methodology involves recognizing probable and reasonably estimable revenue using the percentage of services completed based on a current cumulative cost incurred to estimated total cost basis and a reasonably consistent profit margin over the period. Due to the long-term nature of these arrangements, developing the estimates of cost often requires significant judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the progress of work completed and ultimate cost of the projects include, but are not limited to, the availability of labor and labor productivity, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed and the impact of delayed performance. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing the estimates of costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, which may result in increases or decreases in revenues and costs. Such revisions are reflected in income in the period in which the facts that give rise to that revision become known. We perform ongoing profitability analysis of our POC services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs, future product costs, expected productivity efficiencies, achievement of contracted milestones and performance goals, as well as potential penalties for milestone and system implementation delays. If at any time our estimates indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost of services. This results in the contract being recorded at a zero profit margin going forward with recognition of an equal amount of revenues and costs over the remaining contract term. A zero profit margin may also be applied when it is impractical to estimate specific amounts or ranges of contract revenues and costs; however, we can at least determine that we will not incur a loss on a particular contract. The POC accounting process is particularly complex and challenging for contracts with significant system implementation deliverables due to their significant scope and duration, the highly technical nature of the implementations, the potential for additional costs related to productivity and performance penalties and other delivery factors. Accordingly, based on the significance of these projects, we continually monitor our progress and consider the potential for increased costs as well as risks and uncertainties in our estimates of revenues and costs under the POC accounting methodology. To the extent possible, we attempt to mitigate these risks through operational changes, project oversight and process improvements. Capitalization of Outsourcing Contract Costs In connection with our services arrangements, we incur and capitalize costs to originate these long-term contracts and to perform the migration, transition and setup activities necessary to enable us to perform under the terms of the arrangement. Certain initial direct costs of an arrangement are capitalized and amortized over the contractual service period of the arrangement to cost of services. From time to time, we also provide inducements to customers in various forms, including contractual credits, which are capitalized and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract. We regularly review costs to determine appropriateness for deferral in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Key estimates and assumptions that we must make include projecting future cash Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 28 flows in order to assess the recoverability of deferred costs. To assess recoverability, undiscounted estimated cash flows of the contract are projected over its remaining life and compared to the carrying amount of contract related assets, including the unamortized deferred cost balance. Such estimates require judgment and assumptions, which are based upon the professional knowledge and experience of our personnel. Key factors that are considered in estimating the undiscounted cash flows include projected labor costs and productivity efficiencies. A significant change in an estimate or assumption on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. Capitalization of Software Development Costs We capitalize certain costs incurred to develop commercial software products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed after establishing technological feasibility, and we capitalize costs to develop or purchase internal-use software. Significant estimates and assumptions include: determining the appropriate period over which to amortize the capitalized costs based on estimated useful lives, estimating the marketability of the commercial software products and related future revenues and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment. For commercial software products, determining the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of future revenues from sales of the products. We consider various factors to project marketability and future revenues, including an assessment of alternative solutions or products, current and historical demand for the product, and anticipated changes in technology that may make the product obsolete. For internal-use software, the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of our ability to utilize the software on an ongoing basis. To assess the recoverability of capitalized software costs, we consider estimates of future revenue, costs and cash flows. Such estimates require assumptions about future cash inflows and outflows, and are primarily based on the historical experience and expectations regarding future revenues. A significant change in an estimate related to one or more software products could result in a material change to our results of operations. Refer to Note 6Land, Buildings, Equipment and Software, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding capitalized software costs. Business Combinations The accounting for business combinations requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions in the determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in order to properly allocate the purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. Our estimates of the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable and, when appropriate, include assistance from independent third-party valuation firms. Refer to Note 3 - Acquisitions in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the allocation of the purchase price consideration for our acquisitions. We are primarily a service business, which normally has a lower level of tangible assets; therefore, our acquisitions typically result in significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets. These assets affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible expense we could incur as a result of an impairment. Acquired intangible assets are primarily related to customer relationships. There were no acquisitions in 2016. Acquired intangible assets and goodwill were $1.1 billion at December 31, 2016. Refer to Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our goodwill and intangible assets. Intangible Assets The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily estimated using an income approach. These estimates include market participant assumptions and require projected financial information, including assumptions about future revenue growth and costs necessary to facilitate the projected growth. Other key inputs include assumptions about technological obsolescence, customer attrition rates, brand recognition, the allocation of projected cash flows to identifiable intangible assets and discount rates. We regularly review intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles and long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of potential impairment, we assess whether an impairment has Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 29 occurred based on whether net book value of the assets exceeds the related projected undiscounted cash flows from these assets. We consider a number of factors, including past operating results, budgets, economic projections, market trends and product development cycles in estimating future cash flows. Differing estimates and assumptions as to any of the factors described above could result in a materially different impairment charge, if any, and thus materially different results of operations. Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized but rather is tested for impairment annually or more frequently if an event or circumstance indicates that an impairment may have been incurred. Events or circumstances that might indicate an interim evaluation is warranted include, among other things, unexpected adverse business conditions, macro and reporting unit specific economic factors, supply costs, unanticipated competitive activities and acts by governments and courts. Application of the annual goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units and the assessment- qualitatively or quantitatively - of the fair value of each reporting unit against its carrying value. We determined that our reporting units were the same as our operating segments and, therefore, our business is comprised of three reporting units with goodwill balances. Our annual impairment test of goodwill was performed in the fourth quarter of 2016 . Given the risk of an impairment of our Commercial Industries reporting unit, we determined to utilize a quantitative assessment of the recoverability of our goodwill balances for each of our reporting units. In our quantitative test, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit by weighting the results from the income approach (discounted cash flow methodology) and market approach. These valuation approaches require significant judgment and consider a number of factors that include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry. In addition, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding the current economic environment, industry factors and the future profitability of our businesses. When performing our discounted cash flow analysis for each reporting unit, we incorporate the use of projected financial information and discount rates that are developed using market participant-based assumptions. The cash-flow projections are based on three-year financial forecasts developed by management that include revenue and expense projections, restructuring and strategic transformation activities, capital spending trends and investment in working capital to support anticipated revenue growth or other changes in the business. The selected discount rates consider the risk and nature of the respective reporting units' cash flows, appropriate capital structure and rates of return that market participants would require to invest their capital in our reporting units. We believe these assumptions are appropriate and reflect our forecasted long-term business model and give appropriate consideration to our historical results as well as the current economic environment and markets that we serve. The average discount rate applied to our projected cash flows for our Commercial Industries reporting unit was approximately 16% and 9.5% was used for both the Public Sector and Healthcare reporting units, which we considered reasonable based on the estimated capital costs of applicable market participants. Our impairment assessment methodology includes the use of outside valuation experts and the inclusion of factors and assumptions related to third-party market participants. When performing our market approach for each reporting unit, we rely specifically on the guideline public company method. Our guideline public company method incorporates revenues and earnings multiples from publicly traded companies with operations and other characteristics similar to each reporting unit. The selected multiples consider each reporting units relative growth, profitability, size and risk relative to the selected publicly traded companies. After completing our annual impairment review for each reporting unit in the fourth quarter of 2016 , based on our quantitative assessments, we concluded that the fair value of our Commercial Industries reporting unit was less than its carrying value by approximately 53% , indicating an impairment. Accordingly, we preformed the next step based on Step 2 of the impairment assessment process, which resulted in our recording a pre-tax goodwill impairment charge of $935 during the fourth quarter of 2016, which is separately presented in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). Our Healthcare and Public Sector reporting units passed Step 1 of the impairment test with fair value exceeded carrying value by approximately 19% and 14% , respectively. Refer to Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill by reportable segment and the 2016 goodwill impairment charge. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 30 Restructuring and Asset Impairments We have engaged in restructuring actions, which require management to estimate the timing and amount of severance and other employee separation costs for workforce reduction, the fair value of assets made redundant or obsolete and the fair value of lease cancellation and other exit costs. We accrue for severance and other employee separation costs under these actions when it is probable that benefits will be paid and the amount is reasonably estimable. The rates used in determining severance accruals are based on existing plans, historical experiences and negotiated settlements. For a full description of our restructuring actions, refer to our discussions of restructuring in the MD&A and in Note 8Restructuring Programs and Asset Impairment Charges in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our provision will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events such as audit settlements, tax law changes, changes in valuation allowances, and etc., that may not be predictable. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized in our operating results, the taxes attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as an unusual or one-time item. We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We follow very specific and detailed guidelines in each tax jurisdiction regarding the recoverability of any tax assets recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provide valuation allowances as required. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Gross deferred tax assets of $360 million and $414 million had valuation allowances of $24 million and $38 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of such matters. In addition, when applicable, we adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. Our ongoing assessments of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of examinations and related tax positions require judgment and can materially increase or decrease our effective tax rate, as well as impact our operating results. Unrecognized tax benefits were $14 million, $24 million and $32 million at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Refer to Note 14Income Taxes in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding deferred income taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. Loss Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure considering all available information including, but not limited to, the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other updated information and events pertaining to a particular matter. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation, and may revise estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 15Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding loss contingencies. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 31 Revenue Results Summary Total Revenue Revenue for the three years ended December 31, 2016 was as follows: Revenues % Change CC % Change (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2016 2015 Total Revenues $ 6,408 $ 6,662 $ 6,938 (4 )% (4 )% (3 )% (2 )% Adjusted Total Revenues (1) $ 6,491 $ 6,778 $ 6,938 (4 )% (2 )% (3 )% % _______________ CC - Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for description of Constant Currency (1) Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of this non-GAAP financial measure. Revenue 2016 Total revenues decreased 4% compared to the prior year with a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. On an adjusted 1 basis, excluding the NY MMIS charge, total revenue decreased 4% with a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. Overall non-U.S. revenues represented approximately 11% of total revenues (Pound Sterling-denominated revenues represented approximately 2% of total revenues). The decline was driven by lower volumes, delayed ramping of new business and contract exits, primarily in customer care contracts within our Commercial Industries and Healthcare segments, the run off of our Student Loan business and overall price declines that were consistent with prior-period trends. Partially offsetting these declines were new contracts in the Public Sector. Revenue 2015 Total revenues decreased 4% compared to 2014 with a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency. On an adjusted 1 basis, excluding the HE charge, total revenues decreased 2%, with a 2-percentage point negative impact from currency. The negative impact from currency reflects the significant weakening of our major foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar as compared to prior year. The decline in total revenues was primarily driven by the run-off of the Student Loan business, the termination of the Texas Medicaid contract and the impact of our determination in the third quarter of 2015 to not fully complete the HE platform implementations in California and Montana, which combined had approximately a 4.8-percentage point negative impact on revenue growth. Offsetting this decline was moderate acquisition contribution and organic growth in several lines of business, net of the impacts from lost business and lower pricing that were consistent with prior trends. _______________ (1) Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. Costs, Expenses and Other Income Summary of Key Financial Ratios Year Ended December 31, Change B/(W) Adjusted (1) Adjusted (1) B/(W) 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Total Gross Margin 14.2 % 10.3 % 16.4 % 3.9 pts (6.1) pts 16.5 % 15.8 % 0.7 pts (0.6) pts R&D as a % of Revenue 0.5 % 0.8 % 0.7 % 0.3 pts (0.1) pts 0.5 % 0.8 % 0.3 pts (0.1) pts SAG as a % of Revenue 10.7 % 10.5 % 9.5 % (0.2) pts (1.0) pts 10.6 % 10.3 % (0.3) pts (0.8) pts Pre-tax Income Margin (19.1 )% (8.6 )% 0.1 % (10.5) pts (8.7) pts 4.8 % 3.7 % 1.1 pts 3.6 pts Operating Margin (2) 3.0 % (1.0 )% 6.2 % 4.0 pts (7.2) pts 5.5 % 4.8 % 0.7 pts (1.6) pts _______________ Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 32 (1) Refer to Key Financial Ratios reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. (2) Refer to the Operating Income/Margin reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Pre-tax Income Margin Pre-tax income margin for year ended December 31, 2016 of (19.1)% decreased 10.5-percentage points as compared to 2015. The decline was primarily driven by the NY MMIS charge, the Goodwill impairment charge and higher separation costs. Pre-tax income was also impacted by higher amortization of intangible assets. Pre-tax income margin for the year ended December 31, 2015 of (8.6)% declined by 8.7-percentage points primarily due to the HE charge of $389 million, previously discussed, as well as higher Restructuring and related costs primarily as a result of the software impairment charge in our Government Healthcare business of $146 million. In addition, a 0.6-percentage point decrease in gross margin and a 0.8-percentage point increase in SAG as a percent of revenue reflecting targeted resource and other investments as well as higher costs associated with our HE platform implementations, prior to the implementation of the Government Healthcare strategy change noted above. The negative impacts were partially offset by restructuring savings and productivity improvements as well as lower related party interest expense and lower other expenses, net. Pre-tax income margin includes the goodwill impairment, NY MMIS charge, amortization of intangible assets, related party interest, net, other expenses, net, restructuring and related costs and separation costs, all of which are separately discussed in subsequent sections. Operating margin excludes these items. Operating Margin Operating margin 1 for the year ended December 31, 2016 of 5.5% increased 0.7-percentage points as compared to 2015 . The increase was driven by an improvement in gross margin due to transformation savings, reduced costs in our HE platform implementations as well as more favorable line-of-business mix. As noted above, the operating margin contains an allocation for management cost and corporate support services totaling $165 million, $170 million and $175 million for each of the three years ended December 31, 2016. Operating margin 1 for the year ended December 31, 2015 of 4.8% decreased 1.6-percentage points as compared to 2014. The decline was driven primarily by a 0.6-percentage point decrease in gross margin and a 0.8-percentage point increase in SAG as a percent of revenue. The operating margin decline was driven by targeted resource and other investments as well as higher costs associated with our HE platform implementations, prior to the implementation of the change in strategy in our Government Healthcare business noted above. These negative impacts were partially offset by restructuring savings and productivity improvements. _____________ (1) Refer to the Operating Income/Margin reconciliation table and the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Gross Margins Gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2016 of 14.2% increased 3.9-percentage points compared to 2015. On an adjusted 1 basis, gross margin of 16.5% increased by 0.7-percentage points as compared to 2015. The increase reflected restructuring and productivity improvements, benefits from lower expenses associated with our HE platform implementations and favorable line-of-business mix. These benefits were partially offset by continued margin pressures in our customer care service offerings, lower profitability in our Student Loan business and price declines. Total gross margin for the year ended December 31, 2015 of 10.3% decreased 6.1-percentage points as compared to 2014. On an adjusted 1 basis, gross margin of 15.8% decreased by 0.6-percentage points as compared to 2014. Targeted resource and other investments, impacts from unfavorable line-of-business mix, increased expenses associated with our HE platform implementations, prior to the change in strategy in our Government Healthcare business noted above, and price declines were partially offset by productivity improvements and restructuring benefits. Additional analysis of the change in gross margin for each business segment is included under "Operations Review of Segment Revenue and Profit" below. _______________ (1) Refer to the Key Financial Ratios reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 33 Research & Development Expenses (R&D) R&D as a percentage of revenue of 0.5% for the year ended December 31, 2016 decreased 0.3-percentage points on an actual and adjusted 1 basis compared to 2015. The decrease was due primarily to lower R&D program spending and the benefits from ongoing restructuring. R&D expense of $31 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 decreased $21 million compared to the prior year period. R&D as a percent of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2015 of 0.8% increased 0.1-percentage points on an actual and adjusted 1 basis compared to 2014. R&D expense of $52 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $6 million higher than the prior year period driven by investments in new offerings and capabilities. _______________ (1) Refer to the Key Financial Ratios reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG) SAG as a percentage of revenue of 10.7% for the year ended December 31, 2016, increased 0.2-percentage points compared to the prior year period. On an adjusted 1 basis, SAG increased 0.3-percentage points, as benefits from restructuring and cost initiatives were more than offset by the decline in total revenues and higher expenses due to favorable prior-year compensation adjustments. SAG of $686 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, was $13 million lower than 2015 and reflected the following: $24 million decrease in selling expenses; $11 million increase in general and administrative expenses; and bad debt expense of $4 million was flat as compared to the prior year and less than one percent of receivables. SAG as a percent of revenue of 10.5% for the year ended December 31, 2015, increased 1.0-percentage points as compared to 2014. On an adjusted 1 basis, SAG as a percentage of revenue of 10.3% increased 0.8-percentage points from 2014. The increase was driven by revenue declines and targeted resource and other investments partially offset by productivity improvements. SAG expenses of $699 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 were $40 million higher than the prior year period. The increase in SAG expense reflects the following: $26 million increase in general and administrative expenses; and $14 million increase in selling expenses. ______________ (1) Refer to the Key Financial Ratios reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Restructuring and Related Costs During the year ended December 31, 2016 , we recorded net restructuring and related costs of $101 million, including $28 million of costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. The remaining costs of $73 million included the following: $67 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 3,600 employees globally. The actions impacted several functional areas and focused on gross margin improvements; $7 million for lease termination costs, primarily reflecting continued optimization of our worldwide operating locations; and $12 million of asset impairment charges. The above charges were partially offset by $13 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded net restructuring and related costs of $159 million that included the following: $20 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,000 employees globally. These actions impacted several functional areas and focused on gross margin improvements; $1 million for lease termination costs, primarily reflecting continued optimization of our worldwide operating locations; and Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 34 $146 million of asset impairment charges associated with software asset impairments resulting from the change in strategy in our Government Healthcare business in 2015. The above charges were partially offset by $8 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior period initiatives. Restructuring Summary The restructuring reserve balance as of December 31, 2016 for all programs was $21 million, of which approximately $18 million is expected to be spent over the next twelve months. In 2017, we expect to incur additional restructuring charges of approximately $75 million pre-tax. Refer to Note 8 - Restructuring Programs and Asset Impairment Charges in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs. Amortization of Intangible Assets During the year ended December 31, 2016, we recorded $280 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets, which is $30 million higher than the prior year primarily due to the write-off of certain trade-names associated with prior acquisitions. During the year ended December 31, 2015, we recorded $250 million of expense related to the amortization of intangible assets, which was flat compared to the prior year reflecting the increase in acquisitions in 2014. Refer to Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets. Goodwill Impairment Our Commercial Industries reporting unit experienced declining operating results in 2016, including a weak 2016 fourth quarter versus expectations. As a result and in consideration of other factors, in performing our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2016, we determined that the Commercial Industries reporting unit goodwill was impaired by approximately $935 million. Refer to Note 7 - Goodwill and Intangible assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Goodwill impairment charge. Separation Costs Separation costs are primarily for third-party investment banking, accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services related to the separation transaction as well as costs associated with the operational separation of the two companies, such as those related to human resources, brand management, real estate and information management to the extent not capitalized. Separation costs also include the costs associated with bonuses and restricted stock grants awarded to employees for retention through the separation. Related-Party Interest Expense, Net Related-party interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 of $26 million was $35 million lower than the prior year primarily due to the capitalization of certain related party notes payable in 2015, as a result of the proceeds received from the sale of the ITO business. Refer to Note 20 - Related Party Transactions and Former Parent Company Investment in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 35 Other Expenses, Net Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 Third-party interest expense $ 14 $ 8 $ 11 Gains on sales of businesses and assets (1) 2 (1 ) (1 ) Currency (gains) losses, net (2 ) 4 (1 ) Litigation matters 40 18 38 Deferred compensation investment (gains) losses (8 ) 1 (7 ) Contingent consideration adjustment (12 ) All other expenses, net 8 5 Total Other Expenses, Net $ 34 $ 38 $ 45 _______________ (1) Excludes the loss on sale of the ITO business reported in Discontinued Operations. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Third-party Interest Expense: Represents interest on senior notes and capital lease obligations. Refer to Note 10 - Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding third-party interest expense. Currency (Gains) Losses, Net: Currency (gains) losses, net primarily result from the re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, the cost of hedging foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and the mark-to-market of foreign exchange contracts utilized to hedge those foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. Litigation Matters: Litigation matters reflect probable losses and reserves for various legal matters. Refer to Note 15 - Contingencies and Litigation, in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding litigation against the Company. Deferred Compensation Investment (Gains) Losses : Represents (gains) losses on investments supporting certain of our deferred compensation arrangements. These gains or losses are offset by an increase or decrease in compensation expense recorded in SAG as a result of the increase or decrease in the liability associated with these arrangements. Contingent Consideration Adjustment : Represents an adjustment for settlements related to prior years acquisition earnout. Income Taxes The 2016 effective tax rate was 19.9%. This rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily as a result of pre-tax losses in the U.S. due to the following charges: goodwill impairment, NY MMIS, restructuring and related costs, amortization of intangible assets and separation costs, including tax-related separation costs discussed below. The U.S. pre-tax losses are taxed at a higher rate than our foreign pre-tax income, which can have the effect of increasing the overall effective tax rate above the statutory tax rate. However, since only $272 million of the $935 million Goodwill impairment charge is deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes, which results in a decreased U.S. pre-tax loss, this has made our effective tax rate lower than the statutory tax rate. On an adjusted 1 basis, the 2016 effective tax rate, which excludes the tax effects of the previously noted charges, was 29.0%. This rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of our earnings and differences in the tax rates at which our earnings are taxed as well as the redetermination of certain unrecognized tax positions upon conclusion of several audits. The 2015 effective tax rate was 41.5%. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to our geographical mix of earnings which included pre-tax losses in the U.S. due to the following charges: restructuring and related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and the HE charge. The U.S. pre-tax losses are taxed at a higher rate than our foreign pre-tax income, which has the effect of increasing the overall effective tax rate above the statutory tax rate. On an adjusted 1 basis, the 2015 effective tax rate was 31.5%, which excludes the tax effect of the previously noted charges. This rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of our earnings and differences in the tax rates at which our earnings are taxed. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 36 The 2014 effective tax rate was (240)%. This rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to our geographical mix of earnings which included pre-tax losses in the U.S. due to the following charges: amortization of intangibles, restructuring and related costs. The U.S. pre-tax losses are taxed at a higher rate than our foreign pre-tax income, which has the effect of increasing the overall effective tax rate above the statutory tax rate. On an adjusted 1 basis, the 2014 effective tax rate was 28.6%, which was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the redetermination of certain unrecognized tax positions and partially offset by the geographical mix of our earnings and differences in the tax rates at which our earnings are taxed. Tax-related Separation Costs As a result of the execution of the separation, it has been determined that approximately $37 million of the $44 million separation costs will be deducted on the 2016 U.S. federal income tax return. The remaining approximately $7 million is non-deductible. In connection with the legal separation of the company, we have completed certain internal reorganizations of, and transactions among, our wholly-owned subsidiaries and operating activities in preparation for the legal form of separation. Although we believe that, for the most part, these reorganizations were completed in a tax-free manner, we incurred incremental income tax expense associated with certain elements of the reorganizations. Accordingly, for the year-to-date period of 2016, we recorded $10 million in connection with these internal reorganizations. _____________ (1) See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the adjusted effective tax rate non-GAAP financial measure. Net Loss From Continuing Operations Net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 was $983 million, or $(4.85) per diluted share. On an adjusted 1 basis, net income from continuing operations was $223 million, or $1.06 per diluted share, and reflects the adjustments for the goodwill impairment, amortization of intangible assets and restructuring and related charges. Net loss from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $336 million, or $(1.65) per diluted share. On an adjusted 1 basis, net income was $174 million, or $0.83 per diluted share, and included adjustments for the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related charges, software impairment and the HE charge. Net income from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $34 million, or $0.17 per diluted share. On an adjusted 1 basis, net income was $225 million, or $1.07 per diluted share, and included adjustments for the amortization of intangible assets and restructuring and related charges. _____________ (1) See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for a reconciliation of reported net income from continuing operations to adjusted net income. Discontinued Operations There were no Discontinued Operations in 2016. Discontinued operations are primarily related to our sale of the ITO business. As previously noted, in the fourth quarter 2014, we announced an agreement to sell the ITO business to Atos SE and began reporting it as a Discontinued Operation. The sale was completed on June 30, 2015. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding Discontinued Operations. Other Comprehensive Loss Other comprehensive loss was $155 million in 2016 as compared to a loss of $52 million in 2015. The increase in loss of $103 million was primarily due to the net losses from translation adjustments related to the separation of the company from Xerox. Translation losses in 2016 were $135 million compared to losses of $60 million in 2015. Other comprehensive loss was $52 million in 2015 as compared to a loss of $71 million in 2014 . The reduction in the loss of $19 million was primarily due to the net gains from changes in defined benefit plans of $7 million in 2015 as compared to losses of $25 million in 2014 . This change is largely due to an increase in discount rates in 2015 versus a decrease in discount rates in 2014 and the corresponding impact on our defined benefit obligation (decrease in 2015 versus an increase in 2014). The improvement in defined benefit plans was offset by increased Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 37 losses from translation adjustments of $16 million in 2015. Translation losses in both 2015 and 2014 reflect the weakening of our major foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. Dollar. Worldwide Employment Worldwide employment of approximately 96,000 as of December 31, 2016 decreased by approximately 7,800 from December 31, 2015, due primarily to lower volumes and the impact of the strategic transformation initiatives, as well as seasonal reductions, partially offset by additions from ramping new business. Worldwide employment was approximately 103,800 and 97,200 at December 2015 and 2014, respectively. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1 - Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements including the respective dates of adoption and the effects on results of operations and financial conditions. Operations Review of Segment Revenue and Profit Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate: Commercial Industries, Healthcare and Public Sector. Revenues by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2016 were as follows: (in millions) Total Revenue % of Total Revenue Segment Profit (Loss) Segment Margin 2016 Commercial Industries $ 2,690 42 % $ 59 2.2 % Healthcare 1,686 26 % 159 9.4 % Public Sector 1,731 27 % 223 12.9 % Other 301 5 % (245 ) (81.4 )% Total $ 6,408 100 % $ 196 3.1 % Adjusted: (1) Other $ 384 6 % $ (84 ) (21.9 )% Total $ 6,491 100 % $ 357 5.5 % 2015 Commercial Industries $ 2,896 44 % $ 69 2.4 % Healthcare 1,750 26 % 157 9.0 % Public Sector 1,727 26 % 200 11.6 % Other 289 4 % (489 ) * Total $ 6,662 100 % $ (63 ) (0.9 )% Adjusted: (1) Other $ 405 6 % $ (100 ) (24.7 )% Total $ 6,778 100 % $ 326 4.8 % 2014 Commercial Industries $ 2,953 43 % $ 152 5.1 % Healthcare 1,743 25 % 138 7.9 % Public Sector 1,767 25 % 206 11.7 % Other 475 7 % (49 ) (10.3 )% Total $ 6,938 100 % $ 447 6.4 % _______________ * Percentage not meaningful (1) Refer to the reconciliations table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 38 Commercial Industries Segment Revenue 2016 Commercial Industries revenue of $2,690 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 was 42% of total revenues and decreased 7% from 2015. The decline was driven by lost business, lower volumes in our customer care offerings and reduced level of project work as a result of fewer large cases in our litigation services offering, negative impacts from currency and strategic contract exits. Partially offsetting the decline were benefits from ramping new contracts, primarily in our high-tech business area. Segment Margin 2016 Commercial Industries segment margin of 2.2% for the year ended December 31, 2016 decreased by 0.2-percentage points from the prior year primarily due to margin pressure in our customer care services offering and reduced project work in our litigation services offering, only partially offset by cost and productivity benefits. Revenue 2015 Commercial Industries revenue of $2,896 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 44% of total revenues and decreased 2% from 2014. The year-over-year decline was driven by the negative impacts from currency and price declines. The decline was partially offset by revenues from acquisitions as well as increased project-related work in our litigation services offering. In addition, within our customer care services offering, lost business was offset by ramping new contracts. Segment Margin 2015 Commercial Industries segment margin of 2.4% for the year ended December 31, 2015, decreased by 2.7-percentage points from the prior year primarily due to margin pressure in our customer care offering, investments in sales and managerial resources to improve our operating performance over time, as well as the impacts of price declines. Healthcare Segment Revenue 2016 Healthcare revenue of $1,686 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, was 26% of total revenues and decreased 4% from the prior year with negligible impact from currency. The decline was driven by lost business and lower volumes in our customer care offering on the payer side, partially offset by ramping new business and moderating acquisition contribution. Segment Margin 2016 Healthcare segment margin of 9.4% for the year ended December 31, 2016 increased 0.4-percentage points from the prior year primarily due to overall benefits from cost and productivity initiatives and from actions to improve profitability which more than offset margin pressures in our customer care service offering and the impacts of lost business and lower volumes. Revenue 2015 Healthcare revenue of $1,750 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 26% of total revenues and remained flat from the prior year with a negligible impact from currency. Moderate acquisition contribution and organic growth in commercial payers offset the impacts from the loss of the Texas Medicaid contract and lower project-related work in commercial providers. Segment Margin 2015 Healthcare segment margin of 9.0% for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased 1.1-percentage points from the prior year as improvements in Government Healthcare, including the prior year Nevada HIX impairment, more than offset margin declines on the commercial side driven in part by line of business mix and investments. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 39 Public Sector Segment Revenue 2016 Public Sector revenue of $1,731 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 was 27% of total revenues and was flat compared to the prior year as growth from ramping new business was offset by lower volumes and lost business in State Government Services. Segment Margin 2016 Public Sector segment margin of 12.9% for the year ended December 31, 2016 increased 1.3-percentage points from the prior year, due to cost and productivity improvements and improved performance in our transportation offering, partially offset by the impact of lost business in state government services. Revenue 2015 Public Sector revenue of $1,727 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 was 26% of total revenues and decreased 2% from the prior year. Negative impacts from currency and declines in federal services more than offset growth in state and transportation services. Segment Margin 2015 Public Sector segment margin of 11.6% for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased 0.1-percentage point from the prior year as improvements in federal and state services were more than offset by modest declines in transportation services. Other Revenue 2016 Other revenue of $301 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 was 5% of total revenue and decreased 5% on an adjusted 1 basis compared to the prior year. The decline was driven by the continued run-off of the Student Loan business and our prior-year decision to not complete the HE implementations in California and Montana. Segment Loss 2016 Other loss of $245 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, improved $244 million from the prior year. On an adjusted 1 basis, Other loss decreased $16 million, partially offset by improvements in HE platform implementation expenses resulting from the refocusing of our Government Healthcare business in 2015 and the decision to not fully complete the HE platform implementation in California and Montana. Revenue 2015 Other revenue of $289 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 decreased 39% from the prior year, with no impact from currency. On an adjusted 1 basis, Other revenue of $405 million was 6% of total revenue and decreased 15% compared to the prior year. The decline was primarily driven by the Student Loan business run-off and the impact of our determination in the third quarter of 2015 to not fully complete the HE platform implementations in California and Montana. Segment Loss 2015 Other loss of $489 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 increased $440 million from the prior year. On an adjusted 1 basis, Other loss of $100 million increased $51 million from the prior year primarily due to higher losses in our HE platform implementations, prior to the refocusing of our Government Healthcare business, and lower profit from the declining Student Loan business. _______________ (1) Refer to the reconciliations table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Government Healthcare In February 2017, we determined that it is not probable that the NY MMIS project will be completed. As a result of this determination, we recorded a pre-tax charge of $161 million ($98 million after-tax). The charge included $83 million for the write-off of contract receivables which was recorded as a reduction of revenue and $78 million recorded in cost of outsourcing, including $36 million for the wind down of costs, $28 million non-cash charge for the impairment of software and $14 million for the write-off of deferred contract set-up and transition costs and other related assets and liabilities. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 40 Our HE platform is performing to contractual standards in the states where it has been fully implemented, which include New Hampshire, Alaska and North Dakota. New Hampshire was certified by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services in June 2015, we are currently in the process of obtaining certification for the Alaska HE implementation, and are in the planning phase of North Dakota certification. Metrics Signings Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Total Contract Value (TCV) is the estimated total contractual revenue related to signed contracts. Signings for the three years ended December 31, 2016 were $6.9 billion, $8.0 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively. Signings were an estimated $6.9 billion in TCV in 2016 and declined 14% as compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting lower contribution from new business, due in part to our decision not to pursue opportunities with lower margin and return profiles, and the prior year large NY MMIS new business signing. Excluding NY MMIS, TCV declined about 8%. Signings were an estimated $8.0 billion in TCV in 2015 and increased 8% as compared to the prior year. Growth in 2015 included a 37% increase in new business TCV, which is inclusive of larger contracts such as the Florida Tolling and NY MMIS and was partially offset by lower renewal decision opportunities. Renewal Rate Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue (ARR) on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts for which a renewal decision was made during the period. Our 2016 renewal rate of 86% was within our target range of 85%-90%. Signings and renewal rate reflect, in part, our decision to not pursue opportunities with lower margin and return profiles. Capital Resources and Liquidity As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, total cash and cash equivalents were $390 million and $140 million, respectively. There were $1,444 million outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility and we utilized $17 million of our Revolving Credit Facility capacity to issue letters of credit at December 31, 2016. We also issued $510 million 10.5% Senior Notes due 2024. Refer to the Capital Market Activity section below for additional information. Cash Flow Analysis The following summarizes our cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2016 , as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements: Year Ended December 31, Change (in millions) 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 108 $ 493 $ 665 $ (385 ) $ (172 ) Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 16 522 (488 ) (506 ) 1,010 Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 132 (1,023 ) (149 ) 1,155 (874 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (6 ) (11 ) (8 ) 5 (3 ) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 250 (19 ) 20 269 (39 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 140 159 139 (19 ) 20 Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year $ 390 $ 140 $ 159 $ 250 $ (19 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $108 million for the year ended December 31, 2016. The $385 million decrease in operating cash from 2015 was primarily due to the following: Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 41 $12 million decrease in pre-tax income before depreciation and amortization, loss on sales of business, HE prior year charge, goodwill impairment charge, NY MMIS charge, separation-related costs and restructuring and related charges . $233 million decrease due to reduced factoring and timing of collections of accounts receivable in 2016 . $136 million decrease reflecting settlement payments associated with our third quarter 2015 determination that we would not fully complete the HE implementations in California and Montana. $82 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued compensation primarily due to the timing of payments. $44 million decrease for payments for separation-related costs. $39 million decrease due to the prior year source of cash in the discontinued ITO business. $27 million decrease in restructuring payments as a result of increased restructuring initiatives in 2016 . $317 million increase due to lower net income tax payments made in 2016 as a result of receiving refunds of prior year overpayments due to a change in tax treatment of unbilled revenue.. $21 million increase primarily from lower spending for product software from the refocusing of our Government Healthcare business in 2015. Net cash provided by operating activities was $493 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The $172 million decrease in operating cash from 2014 was primarily due to the following: $149 million decrease in pre-tax income before depreciation and amortization, gain on sales of businesses and assets, stock-based compensation and restructuring charges as well as the HE charge. $128 million decrease from higher income tax payments primarily driven by the tax on the sale of the ITO business. $105 million decrease due to the loss of cash flow associated with the ITO business, post-divestiture. $167 million increase from accounts receivable primarily due to additional sales of accounts receivable under existing programs, select use of prompt pay discounts and lower revenues. $36 million increase from lower spending for product software and up-front costs for outsourcing service contracts. $22 million increase in accounts payable and accrued compensation primarily related to the timing our accounts payable. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash provided by investing activities was $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The $506 million decrease in cash from 2015 was primarily due to the following: $992 million decrease in proceeds from sales of businesses. The first twelve months of 2016 included a $52 million payment to Atos for final post-closing adjustments associated with the 2015 ITO divestiture. 2015 included $939 million of net proceeds from the sale of the ITO business . $3 million increase due to lower capital expenditures (including internal use software) . $196 million increase due to lower acquisitions . $285 million increase in net payments on related party notes receivable. $11 million increase due to payment received on deferred comp investments. Net cash provided by investing activities was $522 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The $1,010 million increase in cash from 2014 was primarily due to the following: $923 million increase in net proceeds from the sale of businesses, primarily the ITO business. Refer to Note - 4 Divestitures, in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. $109 million change from acquisitions. 2015 acquisitions include RSA Medical LLC for $141 million, Intellinex LLC for $28 million, InVentive Patient Access Solutions for $15 million and Healthy Communities Institute Corporation for $13 million. 2014 acquisitions include ISG Holdings, Inc. for $225 million, Invoco Holding GmbH for $54 million, Consilience Software, Inc. for $25 million. $31 million due to lower capital expenditures (including internal use software) partly due to the sale of the ITO business. $59 million charge due to higher net payments on related party notes receivable. Capital expenditures (including internal use software) in 2015 and 2014 include $42 million and $107 million, respectively, for our ITO business, which was held for sale and reported as a Discontinued Operation through June 30, 2015. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 42 Net cash provided by financing activities was $132 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The $1,155 million increase in the cash from 2015 was primarily due to the following: $2.1 billion increase primarily due to proceeds received on third party debt in 2016 ($1.9 billion) and payment of $250 million on Senior Notes in 2015 . $1.0 billion decrease due to net payments on related party notes payable . $18 million decrease due to escrow related to the separation $84 million increase due to net transfers from parent. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,023 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The $874 million increase in the use of cash from 2014 was primarily due to the following: $636 million decrease due to net transfers to parent. $242 million decrease from net debt activity. 2015 reflects payment of $250 million on Senior Notes and net payments of $15 million on capital leases. 2014 reflects net payments of $19 million on capital leases and net payments of $4 million on other debt. $9 million decrease from contingent consideration payments for certain acquisitions in 2014. Sales of Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable sales arrangements are utilized in the normal course of business as part of our cash and liquidity management. We have financial facilities in the U.S. and Europe that enable us to sell certain accounts receivable without recourse to third parties. The accounts receivable sold are generally short-term trade receivables with payment due dates of less than 60 days. The level of receivable sales and benefits may not be indicative of what we expect going forward as we evaluate our working capital needs. Refer to Note 5 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Capital Market Activity Senior Notes : On December 7, 2016 , Xerox Business Services, LLC (XBS) and Conduent Finance, Inc. (CFI), each a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, issued $510 million 10.5% Senior Unsecured Notes due 2024 (the "Senior Notes"). Interest is payable semi-annually, beginning on June 15, 2017 and debt issuance costs of $17 million were deferred. The Senior Notes are jointly and severally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Company and each of the existing and future domestic subsidiaries of CFI or XBS that guarantee the obligations under the Senior Credit Facilities. Proceeds from the issuance were used to fund a portion of the transfer of cash to Xerox Corporation in connection with the Spin-Off. Credit Facility: On December 7, 2016 , we entered into a $2.2 billion senior secured credit agreement ("Credit Agreement") among the Company, its subsidiaries XBS, Affiliated Computer Services International B.V. and CFI, the lenders party and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the administrative agent. The Credit Agreement contains Senior Secured credit facilities ("Senior Credit Facilities") consisting of: (i) Senior Secured Term Loan A (Term Loan A) due 2021 with an aggregate principal amount of $700 million ; (ii) Senior Secured Term Loan B (Term Loan B) due 2023 with an aggregate principal amount of $750 million ; (iii) Senior Revolving Credit Facility ("Revolving Credit Facility") due 2021 with an aggregate amount of $750 million . The Senior Credit Facilities includes access up to $300 million available for the issuance of letters of credit. The net proceeds of the borrowings under the Term Loan A and B facilities were used to purchase our international subsidiaries from Xerox Corporation, to pay a distribution to Xerox Corporation and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. At December 31, 2016 we had $1,444 million outstanding borrowings under our Credit Facility and utilized $17 million or our Revolving Credit Facility capacity to issue letters of credit. Debt issuance costs of $39 million were paid and deferred. In January 2017, we borrowed an additional $100 million on Term Loan B with proceeds used for general corporate purposes. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 43 Refer to Note 10 - Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Financial Instruments Refer to Note 11 - Financial Instruments in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 2017 Activity In January we paid Xerox $161 million reflecting the settlement of the Separation. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies At December 31, 2016 , we had the following contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and contingencies: (in millions) 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Total debt, including capital lease obligations (1) $ 28 $ 72 $ 67 $ 79 $ 528 $ 1,223 Interest on debt (2) 103 125 123 121 118 277 Minimum operating lease commitments (3) 176 127 89 56 36 46 Defined benefit pension plans 10 Estimated Purchase Commitments (4) 82 75 70 37 1 26 Total $ 399 $ 399 $ 349 $ 293 $ 683 $ 1,572 _______________ (1) Total debt represents principal debt and capital leases. Refer to Note 10 - Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. (2) Represents interest on debt. Refer to Note 10 - Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) Refer to Note 6, Land, Buildings, Equipment and Software, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4) Other purchase commitments: We enter into other purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. Our policy with respect to all purchase commitments is to record losses, if any, when they are probable and reasonably estimable. We currently do not have, nor do we anticipate, material loss contracts. Pension Benefit Plans We sponsor defined benefit pension plans that require periodic cash contributions. Our 2016 cash contributions for these plans were $6 million. In 2017 , based on current actuarial calculations, we expect to make contributions of approximately $10 million to our worldwide defined benefit pension plans. Contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in subsequent years will depend on a number of factors, including the investment performance of plan assets and discount rates as well as potential legislative and plan changes. At December 31, 2016, the unfunded and underfunded balances of our U.S. and Non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $37 million and $24 million, respectively, or $61 million in the aggregate. Refer to Note 13 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contributions to our defined benefit pension and post-retirement plans. Other Contingencies and Commitments As more fully discussed in Note 15 - Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement law; intellectual property law; environmental law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and other laws and regulations. In addition, guarantees, indemnifications and claims may arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers, customers and non-consolidated affiliates. Nonperformance under a contract including a guarantee, indemnification or claim could trigger an obligation of the Company. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 44 We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. Should developments in any of these areas cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We may occasionally utilize off-balance sheet arrangements in our operations (as defined by the SEC Financial Reporting Release 67 (FRR-67), Disclosure in Managements Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations). We enter into the following arrangements that have off-balance sheet elements: Operating leases in the normal course of business. The nature of these lease arrangements is discussed in Note 6 - Land, Buildings, Equipment and Software, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We have facilities, primarily in the U.S.and Europe that enable us to sell to third-parties certain accounts receivable without recourse. In most instances, a portion of the sales proceeds are held back by the purchaser and payment is deferred until collection of the related sold receivables. Refer to Note 5 - Accounts Receivables, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these facilities. As of December 31, 2016 , we do not believe we have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In addition, see the preceding table for the Company's contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and Note 15 - Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contingencies, guarantees, indemnifications and warranty liabilities. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We have reported our financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we have discussed our financial results using the non-GAAP measures described below, consistent with Xeroxs historical presentation. We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related tax effects. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods results against the corresponding prior periods results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Companys reported results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable U.S. GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. These Non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Companys reported results prepared in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of the Non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP are provided below . In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2016, during the fourth quarter, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test. Following the completion of the impairment Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 45 test, we determined that we will record a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $935 million (approximately $828 million after-tax or ($4.08 per share) in our Commercial Industries reporting unit. Subsequent to the goodwill impairment charge, the Commercial Industries reporting units goodwill balance is approximately $908 million. This non-cash charge is attributable primarily to weaker than expected Commercial Industries revenues and operating profits, including in the fourth quarter of 2016. We do not expect to make any current or future cash expenditures as a result of this impairment. We are in discussions with the State of New York regarding the status and scope of the Health Enterprise platform project, which evolved to include options to not fully complete the project. Based on those discussions, we believe it is probable that we will not fully complete the implementation of the platform in New York. As a result of these developments, we recorded a pre-tax charge of approximately $161 million (approximately $98 million after-tax or ($0.48) per share) in our fourth-quarter 2016 results reflecting estimated asset impairments, wind down costs and other impacts from this project. The charge includes approximately $115 million for the write-off of receivables and other related assets and non-cash impairment charges, with the remainder of the charge expected to be cash outflows in future quarters for wind down and related costs. Late in the third quarter of 2015, we determined that we would not fully complete Health Enterprise Medicaid platform implementation projects in California and Montana and recorded a charge of $389 million. The charge included a $116 million reduction to revenues with the remaining $273 million recorded to cost of outsourcing. As a result of the significant impact of the Goodwill Impairment, NY MMIS Charge and HE Charge on our reported revenues, costs and expenses as well as key metrics for the period, we discuss our 2016 and 2015 results using non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the impact of these items, as discussed below. Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Adjusted Earnings per Share, and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate . We make adjustments to Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the following items, for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Adjusted Earnings per Share, and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate. In 2016, we adjusted Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the Goodwill Impairment charge of $935 million recorded during the fourth quarter 2016 . Also in 2016 , we adjusted Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the New York Health Enterprise (NY MMIS) charge of $161 million recorded during the fourth quarter 2016. In 2015, we adjusted Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the Health Enterprise (HE) charge of $389 million recorded during the third quarter 2015. In addition to the items discussed above, for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 we Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Earnings per Share and Effective Tax Rate for the following items: Amortization of intangible assets. The amortization of intangible assets is driven by acquisition activity, which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. Restructuring and related costs. Restructuring and related costs include restructuring and asset impairment charges as well as costs associated with our strategic transformation program. Separation costs. Separation costs are expenses incurred in connection with separation from Xerox Corporation into a separate, independent, publicly traded company. Separation costs primarily relate to third-party investment banking, accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services related to the separation transaction as well as costs associated with the operational separation of the two companies. Other expenses, net, excluding third party interest expense. Other expenses, net includes losses (gains) on sales of businesses and assets, currency (gains) losses, net, litigation matters and all other expenses, net. Adjusted Revenue, Costs and Expenses and Margin - Adjusted Operating Income. We make adjustments to Revenue, Costs and Expenses and Margin for the following items, for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Operating Income . In 2016, we adjusted Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the Goodwill Impairment charge of $935 million recorded during the fourth quarter 2016 . As a result of the nature and the significant impact of the NY MMIS and HE charges on our reported revenues, costs and expenses , as well as key metrics for the period, we discussed our 2016 and 2015 Adjusted Operating Income after excluding the impact of the NY MMIS and HE charges. In 2016 , we Adjusted Operating Income by adjusting Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 46 Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the fourth quarter NY MMIS charge of $161 million, which included an $83 million reduction in revenues. In 2015, we Adjusted Operating Income by adjusting Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the third quarter HE charge of $389 million, which included a $116 million reduction in revenues . In addition to the items discussed above, for the we adjusted Operating Income for the following items: As defined above in Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Adjusted Earnings per Share, and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate: Amortization of intangible assets. Restructuring and related costs. Separation costs. We also adjust Operating Income for: Related Party Interest. Includes interest payments to former parent. Other expenses, net. Including third party interest, losses (gains) on sales of businesses and assets, currency (gains) losses, net, litigation matters and all other expenses, net. Adjusted Revenues As a result of the nature and the significant impact of the NY MMIS and HE charges on our reported revenues, we discussed our 2016 and 2015 revenues excluding the impact of the NY MMIS and HE charges. For 2016, we reduced revenues by $83 million for NY MMIS. For the 2015, we reduced revenues by $116 million to reflect the reduction in HE revenues. Adjusted Other Segment Revenue and Profit As a result of the nature and the significant impact of the NY MMIS and HE charges on our Other Segment Revenue and Profit, we discuss Other Segment Revenue and Profit excluding the impact of the NY MMIS and HE charges. In 2016 , we adjusted Other Segment Revenue and Profit by adjusting for the fourth quarter NY MMIS charge of $161 million, which included an $83 million reduction in revenues. In 2015, we adjusted Other Segment Revenue and Profit by adjusting for the third quarter HE charge of $389 million, which included a $116 million reduction in revenue . Constant Currency To better understand trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to adjust revenue to exclude the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars. We refer to this adjusted revenue as constant currency. Currency impact can be determined as the difference between actual growth rates and constant currency growth rates. Non GAAP Reconciliations: Net Income (Loss) and EPS reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 (in millions; except per share amounts) Net Income (Loss) EPS Net Income (Loss) EPS Net Income (Loss) EPS Reported from continuing operations $ (983 ) $ (4.85 ) $ (336 ) $ (1.65 ) $ 34 $ 0.17 Adjustments: Goodwill impairment 935 Amortization of intangible assets 280 250 250 NY MMIS 161 Restructuring and related costs 101 159 21 HE Charge 389 Separation costs 44 Other expenses, net excluding third-party interest (1) 20 30 34 Subtotal Adjustments 1,541 828 305 Less: Income tax adjustments (2) (335 ) (318 ) (114 ) Adjusted $ 223 $ 1.06 $ 174 $ 0.83 $ 225 $ 1.07 Weighted average shares for adjusted EPS (3) 210,774 210,774 210,774 ___________ (1) Excludes third party interest expense of $14 million, $8 million and $11 million for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 47 (2) Reflects the income tax (expense) benefit of the adjustments. Refer to Effective Tax Rate reconciliation below for details. (3) Average shares for the calculation of adjusted EPS include shares associated with our Series A convertible preferred stock and our stock compensation plan. Effective Tax reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 (in millions) Pre-Tax Income (loss) Income Tax (Benefit)Expense Effective Tax Rate Pre-Tax Income (loss) Income Tax (Benefit)Expense Effective Tax Rate Pre-Tax Income (loss) Income Tax (Benefit)Expense Effective Tax Rate Reported from continuing operations $ (1,227 ) $ (244 ) 19.9 % $ (574 ) $ (238 ) 41.5 % $ 10 $ (24 ) (240.0 )% Non-GAAP Adjustments (1) 1,541 335 828 318 305 114 Adjusted (2) $ 314 $ 91 29.0 % $ 254 $ 80 31.5 % $ 315 $ 90 28.6 % __________ (1) Refer to Net Income (Loss) reconciliation for details of non-GAAP adjustments. (2) The tax impact of Adjusted Pre-tax income from continuing operations is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the 'As Reported' Pre-tax income under ASC 740, which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. Operating Income / Margin reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 Year Ended December 31, 2014 (in millions) Profit (Loss) Revenue Margin Profit (Loss) Revenue Margin Profit (Loss) Revenue Margin Reported Pre-tax (Loss) Income from Continuing Operations $ (1,227 ) $ 6,408 (19.1 )% $ (574 ) $ 6,662 (8.6 )% $ 10 $ 6,938 0.1 % Adjustments: Goodwill impairment 935 Amortization of intangible assets 280 250 250 NY MMIS 161 83 Restructuring and related charges 101 159 21 Separation costs 44 Related party interest 26 61 107 HE Charge 389 116 Other expenses, net 34 38 45 Adjusted Operating Income / Margin $ 354 $ 6,491 5.5 % $ 323 $ 6,778 4.8 % $ 433 $ 6,938 6.2 % The following non-GAAP reconciliation tables adjust for the NY MMIS and HE charges. There was no impact to the year ended December 31, 2014. Revenue Reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2016 2015 Revenue As Reported from Continuing Operations $ 6,408 $ 6,662 NY MMIS 83 HE charge 116 Revenue Adjusted $ 6,491 $ 6,778 Other Segment Revenue / Margin Reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 (in millions) As Reported from Continuing Operations NY MMIS Adjusted As Reported from Continuing Operations HE Charge Adjusted Other Segment Revenue $ 301 $ 83 $ 384 $ 289 $ 116 $ 405 Other Segment Loss (245 ) 161 (84 ) (489 ) 389 (100 ) Other Segment Margin n/a (21.9 )% n/a (24.7 )% Conduent Inc. 2016 Annual Report 48 Key Financial Ratios reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 (in millions) Gross Margin R&D as % of Revenue SAG as % of Revenue Gross Margin R&D as % of Revenue SAG as % of Revenue As Reported from Continuing Operations 14.2 % 0.5 % 10.7 % 10.3 % 0.8 % 10.5 % Adjustment: NY MMIS charge 2.3 (0.1 ) HE charge 5.5 (0.2 ) Adjusted 16.5 % 0.5 % 10.6 % 15.8 % 0.8 % 10.3 %