Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our historical financial statements and the notes thereto included in this annual report on Form 10-K. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 22 Table of Contents We may have been able to receive better terms from unaffiliated third parties than the terms we receive in our agreements with Xerox. We entered into agreements with Xerox related to our separation from Xerox, including the Separation and Distribution Agreement, Transition Services Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, Employee Matters Agreement and any other agreements, while we were still part of Xerox. Accordingly, these agreements may not reflect terms that would have resulted from arms-length negotiations among unaffiliated third parties. The terms of these agreements relate to, among other things, allocations of assets, liabilities, rights, indemnifications and other obligations between Xerox and us. We may have received better terms from third parties. See Certain Relationships and Related Party TransactionsAgreements with Xerox. The spin-off could result in significant tax liability to Xerox and its shareholders. Completion of the spin-off required Xeroxs receipt of a written opinion of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP to the effect that the Distribution should qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code") and the receipt and continuing effectiveness and validity of the IRS Ruling. The opinion of counsel did not address any U.S. state or local or foreign tax consequences of the spin-off. The opinion assumed that the spin-off was completed according to the terms of the Separation and Distribution Agreement and relied on the facts as stated in the Separation and Distribution Agreement, the Tax Matters Agreement, the other ancillary agreements, the Information Statement included in our registration statement on Form 10 and a number of other documents. In addition, the opinion was based on certain representations as to factual matters from, and certain covenants by, Xerox and us. The opinion cannot be relied on if any of the assumptions, representations or covenants are incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate or are violated in any material respect. Xerox received an IRS ruling in connection with the spin-off (the "IRS Ruling"). The IRS Ruling relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from Xerox and us regarding the past and future conduct of Xeroxs and our businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is incorrect or not otherwise satisfied, Xerox may not be able to rely on the IRS Ruling. In addition, the IRS Ruling is not a comprehensive ruling from the IRS regarding all aspects of the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the transactions. Accordingly, notwithstanding the opinion of counsel and the IRS Ruling, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert, or that a court would not sustain, a contrary position. If the distribution in connection with the spin-off were determined not to qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss for U.S. federal income tax purposes, U.S. holders who received our common stock could be subject to tax. In this case, each U.S. holder who received our common stock in the distribution would generally, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, be treated as having received a distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of our common stock received, which would generally result in (i) a taxable dividend to the U.S. holder to the extent of that U.S. holders pro rata share of Xeroxs current and accumulated earnings and profits; (ii) a reduction in the U.S. holders basis (but not below zero) in Xerox common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the shareholders share of Xeroxs earnings and profits; and (iii) a taxable gain from the exchange of Xerox common stock to the extent the amount received exceeds the sum of the U.S. holders share of Xeroxs earnings and profits and the U.S. holders basis in its Xerox common stock. We could have an indemnification obligation to Xerox if the Distribution were determined not to qualify for non-recognition treatment, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If it were determined that the distribution in connection with the spin-off did not qualify for non-recognition of gain and loss under Section 355 of the Code, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to indemnify Xerox for the resulting taxes and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 23 Table of Contents In addition, Section 355(e) of the Code generally creates a presumption that the distribution would be taxable to Xerox, but not to shareholders, if we or our shareholders were to engage in transactions that result in a 50% or greater change by vote or value in the ownership of our stock during the four-year period beginning on the date that begins two years before the date of the distribution, unless it were established that such transactions and the distribution were not part of a plan or series of related transactions giving effect to such a change in ownership. If the distribution were taxable to Xerox due to such a 50% or greater change in ownership of our stock, Xerox would recognize gain equal to the excess of the fair market value of our common stock distributed to Xerox shareholders over Xeroxs tax basis in our common stock and we generally would be required to indemnify Xerox for the tax on such gain and related expenses. Any such indemnification obligation could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We agreed to numerous restrictions to preserve the non-recognition treatment of the Distribution, which may reduce our strategic and operating flexibility. We agreed in the Tax Matters Agreement to covenants and indemnification obligations that address compliance with Section 355 of the Code. These covenants and indemnification obligations may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions or engage in new businesses or other transactions that may otherwise maximize the value of our business, and might discourage or delay a strategic transaction that our shareholders may consider favorable. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 2. PROPERTIES We lease and own numerous facilities worldwide with larger concentrations of space in Kentucky, New Jersey, California, Mexico, Guatemala, the Philippines, Jamaica, Romania and India. Our owned and leased facilities house general offices, sales offices, service locations, call centers and distribution centers. The size of our property portfolio as of December 31, 2017 was approximately 9.7 million square feet at an annual operating cost (lease costs and expenses) of approximately $247 million and comprised 330 leased properties and 9 owned properties. We believe that our current facilities are suitable and adequate for our current businesses. Because of the interrelation of our business segments, each of the segments uses substantially all of these properties at least in part. In addition to the 9.7 million square feet of our real estate property portfolio, we also had 2.7 million square feet of our leased and owned properties that became surplus in 2017 due to the implementation of our strategic transformation program as well as various productivity initiatives to consolidate our real estate footprint. We aggressively managed our surplus properties through early terminations and subleasing of leased properties and the sale of owned properties. As a result, approximately 1.7 million square feet of the surplus property portfolio were resolved as of December 31, 2017. Additional leased and owned properties may become surplus over the next three years as we continue the strategic transformation program. We are obligated to maintain our leased surplus properties through required contractual lease periods and plan to dispose of or sublease these properties. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information set forth under Note 13 Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, which is incorporated here by reference. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 24 Table of Contents Part II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Stock Exchange Information The common stock of Conduent Incorporated is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "CNDT." Our common stock began trading January 3, 2017. Conduent Common Stock Prices for 2017 New York Stock Exchange composite prices* First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter High $ 17.44 $ 18.15 $ 17.20 $ 16.39 Low $ 13.10 $ 15.50 $ 15.38 $ 14.95 _____ * Price as of close of business. Common Shareholders of Record Refer to Item 6. Selected Financial DataFive Years in Review for common shareholders of record at year-end, which is incorporated here by reference. Conduent Common Stock Dividends We did not pay any dividends on our common stock in 2017. We intend to retain future earnings for use in the operation of our business and to fund future growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Performance Graph Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 25 Table of Contents Sales of Unregistered Securities During the Quarter Ended December 31, 2017 None ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA FIVE YEARS IN REVIEW (1) (in millions, except per-share data) 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 Operations Revenues $ 6,022 $ 6,408 $ 6,662 $ 6,938 $ 6,879 Income (loss) income from continuing operations 177 (983 ) (336 ) 34 135 Net income (loss) 181 (983 ) (414 ) (81 ) 182 Per-Share Data Income (loss) from continuing operations Basic $ 0.82 $ (4.85 ) $ (1.65 ) $ 0.17 $ 0.67 Diluted 0.81 (4.85 ) (1.65 ) 0.17 0.67 Net income (loss) attributable to Conduent Basic 0.84 (4.85 ) (2.04 ) (0.40 ) 0.90 Diluted 0.83 (4.85 ) (2.04 ) (0.40 ) 0.90 Financial Position Working capital $ 1,342 $ 515 $ (867 ) $ (887 ) $ (1,450 ) Total Assets 7,548 7,709 9,058 10,954 11,205 Consolidated Capitalization Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt $ 82 $ 28 $ 24 $ 268 $ 42 Long-term debt 1,979 1,913 37 43 310 Total Debt (2) 2,061 1,941 61 311 352 Series A preferred stock 142 142 n/a n/a n/a Conduent shareholders' equity/former parent investment 3,529 3,288 5,162 5,411 5,579 Total Consolidated Capitalization $ 5,732 $ 5,371 $ 5,223 $ 5,722 $ 5,931 Selected Data and Ratios (3) Common shareholders of record at year-end (3) 26,936 n/a n/a n/a n/a Book value per common share (3) $ 16.77 n/a n/a n/a n/a Year-end common stock market price (3) $ 16.16 n/a n/a n/a n/a __________ (1) On December 31, 2016, Conduent spun-off from Xerox Corporation. See Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this 2017 Form 10-K for a discussion concerning the historical financial statements. (2) Includes capital lease obligations. (3) Common stock of Conduent Incorporated did not begin trading on the NYSE until January 3, 2017; therefore, selected data and ratios are not available for years prior to 2017. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 26 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of Conduent Incorporated. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes. This MD&A provides additional information about our operations, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Throughout the MD&A, we refer to various notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements which appear in Item 8 of this 2017 Form 10-K, and the information contained in such notes is incorporated by reference into the MD&A in the places where such references are made. Overview With revenues of $6.0 billion , we are a leading provider of business process services with expertise in transaction-intensive processing, analytics and automation. We serve as a trusted business partner in both the front office and back office, enabling personalized, seamless interactions on a massive scale that improve end-user experience. Headquartered in Florham Park, New Jersey, we, have a team of approximately 90,000 people as of December 31, 2017 , who serves customers in 31 countries. In 2017 , 12% of our revenue was generated outside the U.S. Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. Beginning in 2017, in an effort to better reflect how we manage our business, we changed our reporting segments to align the Healthcare business based upon customer focus between Commercial Industries and Public Sector. Commercial Industries - Our Commercial Industries segment provides business process services and customized solutions to clients in a variety of industries. Across the Commercial Industries segment, we deliver end-to-end business-to-business and business-to-customer services that enable our clients to optimize their key processes. Our multi-industry competencies include transaction processing, customer experience, human resource management, omni-channel communications and finance and accounting services. Public Sector - Our Public Sector segment provides government-centric business process services to U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments for transportation, public assistance, program administration, transaction processing and payment services. Other includes our Government HE Medicaid Platform business, where we are limiting our focus to maintaining systems for our current clients; our Education Business inclusive of our Student Loan business, which is in runoff; and inter-segment eliminations. Significant 2017 Actions Dispositions In 2017, we completed divestitures of: (1) our Firehouse business and suite of emergency records management products used by fire departments across the country for their incident reporting and Emergency Management System information and records management; (2) our healthcare provider consulting services business, which advises healthcare organizations on IT application optimization; (3) the Breakaway Group business, which provides advisory project services to assist healthcare organizations optimize their health IT applications; (4) the mobile device management business of Wireless Data Services Limited; and (5) the Global Mobility business. The aggregate proceeds for these divestitures was $56 million in cash. The businesses sold represent $60 million and $82 million of 2017 and 2016 revenue, respectively. We recorded a pre-tax gain of $16 million on these divestitures for the year ended December 31, 2017. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 27 Table of Contents In addition, in 2017, we sold a property located in Dallas, Texas, which was formerly the Affiliated Computer Services (ACS) headquarters, for a pre-tax gain of $24 million. This was part of our effort to consolidate our real estate footprint. Health Enterprise Settlement On November 28, 2017, we entered into a definitive settlement agreement with the State of New York regarding resolution of the HE platform project. Under the terms of the settlement: (1) our contract with the State of New York terminated effective December 15, 2017 and we were released from all liabilities and obligations in connection with the contract at such time; and (2) we will pay, or incur costs on behalf of, the State of New York in the amount of approximately $20 million. As we have previously reserved this amount, we will incur no additional charges as a result of the settlement. Significant 2016 Actions Separation On December 31, 2016, Conduent Incorporated spun-off from Xerox Corporation, pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement. The separation was completed by way of a pro rata distribution of Conduent Incorporated shares held by Xerox to Xerox's shareholders. As a result of the spin-off we operate as an independent, publicly traded company on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker "CNDT". Goodwill Impairment Charge Our Commercial Industries reporting units operating results declined in 2016 versus our expectations, including a weak fourth quarter 2016. In performing our annual impairment test during the fourth quarter of 2016, we determined that the carrying value of the Commercial Industries reporting unit exceeded its fair value by 53%, which resulted in a goodwill impairment of $935 million. This has been presented as Goodwill impairment, a separate line item in the Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss). Refer to Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net , in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Health Enterprise Charge In February 2017, we determined that it was not probable that the New York Medicaid Management Information System (NY MMIS) project would be completed. As a result of this determination, we recorded a pre-tax charge (NY MMIS charge) of $161 million ($98 million after-tax) in the fourth quarter of 2016. The charge included $83 million for the write-off of contract receivables which were recorded as a reduction of revenue and $78 million recorded in Cost of services including $36 million for wind-down costs, $28 million related to the non-cash charge for the impairment of software and $14 million for the write-off of deferred contract set-up and transition costs and other related assets and liabilities. Significant 2015 Actions Health Enterprise Charge In 2015, we determined that we would not fully complete the HE platform implementation projects in California and Montana. However, we would continue to process Medicaid claims using existing legacy systems in those states, thus providing uninterrupted service for the states' healthcare providers and constituents. As a result of this determination, we recorded a pre-tax HE charge of $389 million ($237 million after-tax). The charge included $116 million for the write-off of contract receivables (primarily non-current), $34 million related to the non-cash impairment of the HE software and deferred contract set-up transition costs and $23 million for other related assets and liabilities. The remainder of the charge was primarily related to settlement costs including payments to subcontractors resulting in cash outflows in future periods. Of the $389 million charge, $116 million was recorded as a reduction to revenue and the remaining $273 million recorded to Cost of services. This development resulted from the Government Healthcare strategy change announced in July 2015, regarding our decision to focus our future HE implementations on current Medicaid customers and to discontinue investment in and sales of our Integrated Eligibility System. This resulted in a pre-tax non-cash software platform impairment charge of $146 million ($89 million after-tax). Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 28 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions in certain circumstances that affect amounts reported in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we have made our best estimates and judgments of certain amounts included in the Consolidated Financial Statements giving due consideration to materiality. However, application of these accounting policies involves the exercise of judgment and use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. Senior management has discussed the development and selection of the critical accounting policies, estimates and related disclosures included herein with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. We consider these as critical to understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, as their application places the most significant demands on management's judgment, since financial reporting results rely on estimates of the effects of matters that are inherently uncertain. In instances where different estimates could have reasonably been used, we disclose the impact of these different estimates on our operations. In certain instances, the accounting rules are prescriptive; therefore, it would not have been possible to reasonably use different estimates. Changes in assumptions and estimates are reflected in the period in which they occur. The impact of such changes could be material to our results of operations and financial condition in any quarterly or annual period. Specific risks associated with these critical accounting policies are discussed throughout the MD&A, where such policies affect our reported and expected financial results. For a detailed discussion of the application of these and other accounting policies, refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Revenue Recognition Application of the various accounting principles in U.S. GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires us to make judgments and estimates. Complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our revenue recognition policies . A significant portion of our revenue is recognized based on objective criteria that do not require significant estimates or uncertainties. For example, transaction volumes, time and material and cost reimbursable arrangements are based on specific, objective criteria under the contracts. Accordingly, revenues recognized under these contracts do not require the use of significant estimates that are susceptible to change. Revenue recognized using the percentage-of completion (POC) accounting method does require the use of estimates and judgment as discussed below. We recognize revenues when we have persuasive evidence of an arrangement, the services have been provided, the transaction price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. During 2017 , approximately 80% of our revenue was recognized based on transaction volumes, approximately 13% was recognized on a fixed fee basis (wherein our revenue is earned as we fulfill our performance obligations under the arrangement), approximately 1% was related to cost reimbursable contracts, approximately 2% recognized using POC accounting and the remaining 4% was related to time and material contracts. Our revenue mix is subject to change due to the impact of changing customer requirements, acquisitions, divestitures, new business and lost business. Percentage-of-Completion : The POC method requires the use of estimates and judgment. Although not significant to total revenue, the POC methodology is normally applied to certain of our larger and longer term outsourcing contracts involving system development and implementation, primarily in government healthcare and certain government transportation contracts. In addition, we had unbilled receivables totaling $187 million and $279 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively, representing revenues recognized but not yet billable under the terms of our POC contracts. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 29 Table of Contents The POC accounting methodology involves recognizing probable and reasonably estimable revenue using the percentage of services completed based on a current cumulative cost incurred to estimated total cost basis and a reasonably consistent profit margin over the period. Due to the long-term nature of these arrangements, developing the estimates of cost often requires significant judgment. Factors that must be considered in estimating the progress of work completed and ultimate cost of the projects include, but are not limited to, the availability of labor and labor productivity, the nature and complexity of the work to be performed and the impact of delayed performance. If changes occur in delivery, productivity or other factors used in developing the estimates of costs or revenues, we revise our cost and revenue estimates, which may result in increases or decreases in revenues. Such revisions are reflected in income in the period in which the facts that give rise to that revision become known. We perform ongoing profitability analysis of our POC services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the Company to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs, future product costs, expected productivity efficiencies, achievement of contracted milestones and performance goals, as well as potential penalties for milestone and system implementation delays. If at any time our estimates indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost of services. This results in the contract being recorded at a zero profit margin going forward with recognition of an equal amount of revenues and costs over the remaining contract term. A zero profit margin may also be applied when it is impractical to estimate specific amounts or ranges of contract revenues and costs; however, we can at least determine that we will not incur a loss on a particular contract. Capitalization of Outsourcing Contract Costs In connection with our services arrangements, we incur and capitalize costs to originate these long-term contracts and to perform the migration, transition and setup activities necessary to enable us to perform under the terms of the arrangement. Certain initial direct costs of an arrangement are capitalized and amortized over the contractual service period of the arrangement to cost of services. From time to time, we also provide inducements to customers in various forms, including contractual credits, which are capitalized and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the term of the contract. We regularly review costs to determine appropriateness for deferral in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. Key estimates and assumptions that we must make include projecting future cash flows in order to assess the recoverability of deferred costs. To assess recoverability, undiscounted estimated cash flows of the contract are projected over its remaining life and compared to the carrying amount of contract related assets, including the unamortized deferred cost balance. Key factors that are considered in estimating the undiscounted cash flows include projected labor costs and productivity efficiencies. A significant change in an estimate or assumption on one or more contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. Capitalization of Software Development Costs We capitalize certain costs incurred to develop commercial software products to be sold, leased or otherwise marketed after establishing technological feasibility, and we capitalize costs to develop or purchase internal-use software. Significant estimates and assumptions include: determining the appropriate period over which to amortize the capitalized costs based on estimated useful lives, estimating the marketability of the commercial software products and related future revenues and assessing the unamortized cost balances for impairment. For commercial software products, determining the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of future revenues from sales of the products. We consider various factors to project marketability and future revenues, including an assessment of alternative solutions or products, current and historical demand for the product, and anticipated changes in technology that may make the product obsolete. For internal-use software, the appropriate amortization period is based on estimates of our ability to utilize the software on an ongoing basis. To assess the recoverability of capitalized software costs, we consider estimates of future revenue, costs and cash flows. Such estimates require assumptions about future cash inflows and outflows, and are primarily based on the historical experience and expectations regarding future revenues. A significant change in an estimate related to one or more software products could result in a material change to our results of operations. Refer to Note 5 Land, Buildings, Equipment and Software, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding capitalized software costs. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 30 Table of Contents Held for Sale We classify assets as held for sale in the period when the following conditions are met: (i) management, having the authority to approve the action, commits to a plan to sell the asset (disposal group); (ii) the asset (disposal group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms that are usual and customary for sales of such assets (disposal group); (iii) an active program to locate a buyer and other actions required to complete the plan to sell the asset (disposal group) have been initiated; (iv) the sale of the asset (disposal group) is probable, and transfer of the asset (disposal group) is expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year, except if events or circumstances beyond our control extend the period of time required to sell the asset (disposal group) beyond one year; (v) the asset (disposal group) is being actively marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable in relation to its current fair value; and (vi) actions required to complete the plan indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the plan will be made or that the plan will be withdrawn. A long-lived asset (disposal group) that is classified as held for sale is initially measured at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less any costs to sell. Any loss resulting from this measurement is recognized in the period in which the held for sale criteria are met. Conversely, gains are not recognized on the sale of a long-lived asset (disposal group) until the date of sale. The fair value of a long-lived asset (disposal group) less any costs to sell is assessed each reporting period it remains classified as held for sale and any subsequent changes are reported as an adjustment to the carrying value of the asset (disposal group), as long as the new carrying value does not exceed the carrying value of the asset at the time it was initially classified as held for sale. Upon determining that a long-lived asset (disposal group) meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, the Company reports the assets and liabilities of the disposal group in the line items Assets held for sale and Liabilities held for sale, respectively, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In the fourth quarter of 2017, management approved the disposal through sale of certain assets and businesses, which is a mix of both Commercial Industries and Public Sectors. This action was taken as a result of our evaluation of these businesses as they represent businesses in markets or with services that we did not see as strategic or core. As of December 31, 2017, these businesses qualified as assets held for sale. During the year ended December 31, 2017, we reclassified $757 million to assets held for sale and $169 million to liabilities held for sale, as we have an active program to locate buyers for these businesses and we expect these businesses to be sold within one year. Intangible Assets The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily estimated using an income approach. These estimates include market participant assumptions and require projected financial information, including assumptions about future revenue growth and costs necessary to facilitate the projected growth. Other key inputs include assumptions about technological obsolescence, customer attrition rates, brand recognition, the allocation of projected cash flows to identifiable intangible assets and discount rates. We regularly review intangible assets with finite lives for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Factors we consider important which could trigger an impairment review include the following: significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; and significant negative industry or economic trends. When we determine that the carrying value of intangibles and long-lived assets may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators of potential impairment, we assess whether an impairment has occurred based on whether net book value of the assets exceeds the related projected undiscounted cash flows from these assets. We consider a number of factors, including past operating results, budgets, economic projections, market trends and product development cycles in estimating future cash flows. Differing estimates and assumptions as to any of the factors described above could result in a materially different impairment charge, if any, and thus materially different results of operations. Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized but rather tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if an event or circumstance indicates that impairment may have been incurred. Events or circumstances that might indicate an interim evaluation is warranted include, among other things, unexpected adverse business conditions, macro and reporting unit specific economic factors, supply costs, unanticipated competitive activities and acts by governments and courts. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 31 Table of Contents Application of the annual goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units and the assessment of the fair value of each reporting unit. We determined that our reporting units were the same as our operating segments and, therefore, our business is comprised of two reporting units. Our annual quantitative impairment test of goodwill was performed in the fourth quarter of 2017 . In our quantitative test, we estimate the fair value of each reporting unit by weighting the results from the income approach (discounted cash flow methodology) and market approach. These valuation approaches require significant judgment and consider a number of factors that include, but are not limited to, expected future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates and comparable multiples from publicly traded companies in our industry. In addition, we are required to make certain assumptions and estimates regarding the current economic environment, industry factors and the future profitability of our businesses. When performing our discounted cash flow analysis for each reporting unit, we incorporate the use of projected financial information and discount rates that are developed using market participant-based assumptions. The cash-flow projections are based on three-year financial forecasts developed by management that include revenue and expense projections, restructuring and strategic transformation activities, capital spending trends and investment in working capital to support anticipated revenue growth or other changes in the business. The selected discount rates consider the risk and nature of the respective reporting units' cash flows, appropriate capital structure and rates of return that market participants would require to invest their capital in our reporting units. We believe these assumptions are appropriate and reflect our forecasted long-term business model and give appropriate consideration to our historical results as well as the current economic environment and markets that we serve. Based on our quantitative assessments, we concluded that the fair value of our Commercial Industries and Public Sector reporting units exceeded their respective carrying values by 72% and 13% , respectively, at December 31, 2017. The most significant assumptions used in the goodwill analysis relate to a 3% long-term organic growth rate for both the Commercial Industries and Public Sector segments as well as a 9.25% and a 8.75% discount rate for the Commercial Industries and Public Sector segments, respectively. The fair values of the Commercial Industries and Public Sector segments are sensitive to changes in the long-term growth rates and the discount rates. A decrease of 50 basis points to the long-term growth rate or an increase to the discount rate of 50 basis points would result in an approximate reduction of fair value of $200 million and $250 million, respectively, in the Public Sector segment. Refer to Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding goodwill by reportable segment. Restructuring and Asset Impairments We have engaged in restructuring actions, which require management to estimate the timing and amount of severance and other employee separation costs for workforce reduction, the fair value of assets made redundant or obsolete and the lease cancellation and other exit costs. We accrue for severance and other employee separation costs under these actions when it is probable that benefits will be paid and the amount is reasonably estimable. The rates used in determining severance accruals are based on existing plans, historical experiences and negotiated settlements. For additional information regarding our restructuring actions, refer to the "Restructuring and Related Costs" section in the MD&A and Note 7 Restructuring Programs and Asset Impairment Charges in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment, the use of estimates and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. Our provision is based on nonrecurring events as well as recurring factors, including the taxation of foreign income. In addition, our provision will change based on discrete or other nonrecurring events such as audit settlements, tax law changes, changes in valuation allowances and other factors, that may not be predictable. In the event that there is a significant unusual or one-time item recognized in our operating results, the taxes attributable to that item would be separately calculated and recorded at the same time as an unusual or one-time item. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 32 Table of Contents We record the estimated future tax effects of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and amounts reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets, as well as operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We follow very specific and detailed guidelines in each tax jurisdiction regarding the recoverability of any tax assets recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheets and provide valuation allowances as required. We regularly review our deferred tax assets for recoverability considering historical profitability, projected future taxable income, the expected timing of the reversals of existing temporary differences and tax planning strategies. Gross deferred tax assets of $250 million and $360 million had valuation allowances of $35 million and $24 million at December 31, 2017 and 2016 , respectively. As a result of the 2017 tax law changes in the United States, we recorded provisional amounts for a one-time non-cash $210 million income tax benefit related to adjusting our deferred tax liabilities from a 35% Federal tax rate to a 21% Federal tax rate and the transition tax expense of $12 million . We are subject to ongoing tax examinations and assessments in various jurisdictions. Accordingly, we may incur additional tax expense based upon our assessment of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of such matters. In addition, when applicable, we adjust previously recorded tax expense to reflect examination results. Our ongoing assessments of the more-likely-than-not outcomes of examinations and related tax positions require judgment and can materially increase or decrease our effective tax rate, as well as impact our operating results. Unrecognized tax benefits were $15 million, $14 million and $24 million at December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Refer to Note 12 Income Taxes in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding deferred income taxes and unrecognized tax benefits. Loss Contingencies We are currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, we review the status of each significant matter and assess its potential financial exposure considering all available information including, but not limited to, the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel and other updated information and events pertaining to a particular matter. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation, and may revise estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the results of operations and financial position. Refer to Note 13 Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding loss contingencies. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 33 Table of Contents Financial Information Financial information for the three years ended December 31, 2017 was as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 $ Change % Change $ Change % Change Total Revenues $ 6,022 $ 6,408 $ 6,662 $ (386 ) (6 )% $ (254 ) (4 )% Total Cost of services 4,977 5,498 5,977 (521 ) (9 )% (479 ) (8 )% Gross Margin $ 1,045 $ 910 $ 685 $ 135 15 % $ 225 33 % Operating Costs and Expenses Research and development $ 13 $ 31 $ 52 $ (18 ) (58 )% $ (21 ) (40 )% Selling, general and administrative 615 686 699 (71 ) (10 )% (13 ) (2 )% Restructuring and related costs 101 101 159 % (58 ) (36 )% Amortization of intangible assets 243 280 250 (37 ) (13 )% 30 12 % Goodwill impairment 935 (935 ) (100 )% 935 100 % Separation costs 12 44 (32 ) (73 )% 44 100 % Interest expense 137 14 8 123 879 % 6 75 % Related party interest 26 61 (26 ) (100 )% (35 ) (57 )% (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses (42 ) 2 (44 ) (2,200 )% 2 100 % Other (income) expenses, net (18 ) 18 30 (36 ) (200 )% (12 ) (40 )% Total Operating Costs and Expenses $ 1,061 $ 2,137 $ 1,259 $ (1,076 ) (50 )% $ 878 70 % Loss Before Income Taxes $ (16 ) $ (1,227 ) $ (574 ) $ 1,211 (99 )% $ (653 ) 114 % Income tax benefit (193 ) (244 ) (238 ) 51 (21 )% (6 ) 3 % Income (Loss) From Continuing Operations $ 177 $ (983 ) $ (336 ) $ 1,160 (118 )% $ (647 ) 193 % Revenue Total revenues for 2017 decreased mainly due to the impact from strategic decisions by management as part of our portfolio rationalization, including exiting certain unprofitable contracts, the run-off of our Student Loan business and contract losses. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase from the ramping of new business. Total revenues for 2016 decreased compared to the prior year as a result of the NY MMIS charge of $83 million, lower volumes, delayed ramping of new business and contract exits, primarily in customer care contracts within our Commercial Industries segment, the run off of our Student Loan business and overall price declines that were consistent with prior-period trends. Partially offsetting these declines were new contracts in the Public Sector. Cost of Services Cost of services for 2017 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to cost transformation, lost business, wind-down of the NY MMIS contract, run-off of our Student Loan business, strategic contract actions taken by management as part of portfolio management and lower volumes. Cost of services for 2016 decreased compared to the prior year period primarily due to lost business, the NY MMIS contract, run-off of our Student Loan business and lower volumes. Gross Margin Increase in gross margin in 2017 compared to the prior year period was driven primarily by the impact of cost and productivity improvements, including benefits from our strategic transformation program, exiting or remediating certain underperforming contracts and lower costs associated with our Student Loan business. This was partially offset by the run-off of our Student Loan business, contract losses and lower volumes with existing clients. Increase in gross margin in 2016 compared to the prior year period reflected cost benefits from our strategic transformation initiatives offset by lost business and margin pressures in our customer service offerings and price declines. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 34 Table of Contents Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Lower SG&A compared to the prior years reflected the impact of our strategic transformation initiatives driving lower wages and benefits, partially offset by the expansion and investment in our sales force. Restructuring and Related Costs Restructuring and related costs for the year ended December 31, 2017 include $46 million of lease cancellation costs as part of our effort to consolidate our real estate footprint, $41 million of severance costs due to headcount reductions of approximately 3,200 employees worldwide, $9 million of costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program and $5 million of asset impairments charges. Restructuring and related costs for the year ended December 31, 2016 include $54 million of severance costs due to headcount reductions of approximately 3,600 employees worldwide, $28 million of costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program, $12 million of asset impairment charges and $7 million of lease cancellation costs. Refer to Note 7 Restructuring Programs and Asset Impairment Charges in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible asset decreased in 2017 from the prior year primarily due to the acceleration of amortization of certain trade-names in 2016. Amortization of intangible assets was higher in 2016 as compared to 2015, primarily due to the acceleration of amortization of certain trade-names associated with prior acquisitions. Refer to Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our intangible assets. Goodwill Impairment Our Commercial Industries reporting unit experienced declining operating results in 2016 versus expectations. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment of $935 million. Refer to Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Goodwill impairment charge. Separation Costs Separation costs are primarily for third-party investment banking, accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services related to the separation transaction as well as costs associated with the operational separation of the two companies, such as those related to human resources, brand management, real estate and information management to the extent not capitalized. Separation costs also include the costs associated with bonuses and restricted stock grants awarded to employees for retention through the separation. Interest Expense Interest expense represents interest on long-term debt and the amortization of debt issuance costs. Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 increased compared to the prior year, primarily due to the issuance of debt with the capitalization of the Company during the spin-off in December 2016 and subsequent borrowing under Term Loan B in January 2017, as well as amounts outstanding at various times throughout the year under the Company's credit facility. In 2017, the Company successfully repriced its Term Loan B in April and October (Amendments No.1 and No. 2, respectively), which overall resulted in lowering the total interest rate on this loan by 250 basis points to LIBOR plus 3.0%. Refer to Note 8 Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 35 Table of Contents Related Party Interest In January 2017, in connection with the spin-off from Xerox Corporation, we paid Xerox $161 million for the final settlement per the Separation and Distribution Agreement. Related-party interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 was lower than the prior year primarily due to the payment of certain related party notes payable in 2015, as a result of the proceeds received from the sale of the ITO business. Refer to Note 18 Related Party Transactions and Former Parent Company Investment in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (Gain) Loss on Sale of Asset As disclosed under Item 7. MD&A Divestiture, we completed five divestitures in 2017 with aggregate proceeds of $56 million . We recorded a pre-tax gain of $16 million on these divestitures. In addition, in 2017 we sold a property located in Dallas, TX, which was formerly the ACS headquarters, for a pre-tax gain of $24 million. Other (Income) Expense, Net Other (income) expense, net primarily includes foreign currency transaction losses (gains), litigation and other contingent matters and deferred compensation investment results. Income Taxes On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (Tax Reform) was enacted. The effects of changes in tax rates and laws are recognized in the period in which the new legislation is enacted. In the case of US federal income taxes, the enactment date is the date the bill becomes law. The income tax effects of the Tax Reform have been initially accounted for on a provisional basis pursuant to the SEC staff guidance on income taxes. Reasonable estimates for all material tax effects of the Tax Reform have been provided and adjustments to provisional amounts will be made in subsequent reporting periods as information becomes available to complete provisional computations. The 2017 effective tax rate was 1,206.3% as compared with 19.9% for the prior year. The 2017 rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35% primarily due to the impact of the Tax Reform, which included the reduction of the U.S. statutory rate from 35% to 21% and a one-time tax on undistributed and previously untaxed post-1986 foreign earnings and profits. Excluding primarily the tax impact of the Tax Reform, the termination of the COLI, amortization of intangible assets and gains on U.S divestitures, the adjusted effective tax rate for 2017 was 33.8% . The Tax Reform is the most significant change to U.S. federal income tax legislation in over 30 years and, as a result, has a disproportionate effect on our 2017 effective tax rate. See Note 12 Income Taxes for further information regarding the impact of the Tax Reform on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured and recorded using the enacted tax rates for the periods during which the related temporary differences are expected to reverse or deferred tax attributes are expected to be realized. As a result of the change in future federal statutory tax rate due to the passing of the Tax Reform, the deferred tax assets and liabilities should no longer be valued at a federal statutory rate of 35%, but rather at the rate in which the benefit of the deferred tax liabilities will be realized by the Company. As such, the U.S. federal statutory rate used to value the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities was 21%, which resulted in a $210 million tax benefit. The 2016 effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate due primarily to the impact of the non-deductible Goodwill impairment charge. Excluding primarily the goodwill impairment, NY MMIS, amortization of intangible assets, and restructuring costs, the 2016 normalized effective rate was 29.0% . Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 36 Table of Contents Operations Review of Segments Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate. Beginning in 2017, in an effort to better reflect how we organize and manage our business, we changed our reporting segments to align the Healthcare business based on customer focus between Commercial Industries and Public Sector. All prior years have been adjusted to reflect the new reporting segments. The following are our results of financial performance by segment for the three years ended December 31, 2017 : (in millions) Commercial Industries Public Sector Other Total Year Ended December 31, 2017 Total Revenue $ 3,548 $ 2,163 $ 311 $ 6,022 Profit (Loss) $ 182 $ 245 $ (10 ) $ 417 EBITDA (1) $ 344 $ 330 $ (3 ) $ 671 Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 344 $ 330 $ (2 ) $ 672 % of Total Revenue 58.9 % 35.9 % 5.2 % 100.0 % EBITDA Margin (1) 9.7 % 15.3 % (1.0 )% 11.1 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin (1) 9.7 % 15.3 % (0.6 )% 11.2 % Year Ended December 31, 2016 Total Revenue $ 3,805 $ 2,308 $ 295 $ 6,408 Adjusted Revenue (1) $ 3,805 $ 2,308 $ 378 $ 6,491 Profit (Loss) $ 151 $ 293 $ (248 ) $ 196 EBITDA (1) $ 313 $ 395 $ (182 ) $ 526 Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 313 $ 395 $ (73 ) $ 635 % of Total Revenue 59.4 % 36.0 % 4.6 % 100.0 % EBITDA Margin (1) 8.2 % 17.1 % (61.7 )% 8.2 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin (1) 8.2 % 17.1 % (19.3 )% 9.8 % Year Ended December 31, 2015 Total Revenue $ 4,059 $ 2,331 $ 272 $ 6,662 Adjusted Revenue (1) $ 4,059 $ 2,331 $ 388 $ 6,778 Profit (Loss) $ 148 $ 298 $ (509 ) $ (63 ) EBITDA (1) $ 308 $ 416 $ (440 ) $ 284 Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ 308 $ 416 $ (85 ) $ 639 % of Total Revenue 60.9 % 35.0 % 4.1 % 100.0 % EBITDA Margin (1) 7.6 % 17.8 % (161.8 )% 4.3 % Adjusted EBITDA Margin (1) 7.6 % 17.8 % (21.9 )% 9.4 % _______________ (1) Refer to the reconciliations table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Commercial Industries Segment Revenue Commercial Industries revenue 2017 as compared to prior year decreased, primarily driven by strategic contract actions, lower volumes in our customer care offerings and lost business, partially offset by revenue from new contracts and price increases with existing clients. Commercial Industries revenue for 2016 decreased from the prior year, mainly driven by lost business, lower volumes in our customer care offerings and reduced level of project work as a result of fewer large cases in our litigation services offering, negative impacts from currency and strategic contract exits. Partially offsetting the decline were new contract signings, primarily in our high-tech business area. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 37 Table of Contents Segment Profit Increase in the Commercial Industries segment profit for 2017 as compared to the prior year, was primarily driven by reduced costs as a result of our strategic transformation initiatives, including contract remediation and strategic contract actions, partially offset by the overall revenue decline. The Commercial Industries segment profit for 2016 as compared to the prior year was largely flat, primarily due to overall benefits from costs and productivity initiatives, partially offset by margin pressure in our customer care services offering and reduced project work in our litigation services offering. Public Sector Segment Revenue Public Sector revenue for 2017 as compared to prior year decreased, primarily driven by strategic decisions and contract losses in State & Local, Government Healthcare and Payment Services. Public Sector revenue for 2016 decreased as compared to the prior year, primarily due to lower volumes and lost business in State Government Services, partially offset by new business. Segment Profit Decrease in the Public Sector segment profit for 2017 as compared to the prior year was mainly due to strategic decisions, contract losses in Government Healthcare, as well as losses in our Payment Services business, partially mitigated by our strategic transformation initiative. Decrease in the Public Sector segment profit for 2016 as compared to prior year was primarily due to the impact of lost business in State Government Services, partially offset by costs and productivity initiatives and improved performance in our transportation offering. Other Revenue Other revenue for 2017 improved compared to 2016, primarily due to improved pricing and performance from two large Health Enterprise clients, partially offset by the exit from the NY MMIS contract and the strategic run-off of the Student Loan business. Other revenue for 2016 increased compared to 2015 as a result of the non-recurring $116 million HE charge in 2015, partially offset by the $83 million write-off of NY MMIS in 2016, the continued run-off of the Student Loan business, partially offset by our prior-year decision to not complete the HE implementations in California and Montana. Segment Loss Other loss for 2017 improved, primarily due to improved profitability in the student loan business, improved pricing from a contract extension with a large Health Enterprise client and general operational efficiencies in the HE business. Other loss for 2016 improved as a result of the non-recurring $389 million HE charge in 2015, partially offset by the $161 million write-off of the NY MMIS, partially offset by improvements in HE platform implementation expenses resulting from the decision to not fully complete the HE platform implementation in California and Montana. Metrics Signings Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Total Contract Value (TCV) is the estimated total contractual revenue related to signed contracts. The amounts in the following table do not reflect the impact of our adoption of the new revenue recognition standard on January 1, 2018. Refer to Note 1 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies for further discussion of the estimated impact of the adoption of this standard. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 38 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2017 vs. 2016 2016 vs. 2015 (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 $ Change % Change $ Change % Change New business TCV $ 2,260 $ 2,527 $ 4,345 $ (267 ) (11 )% $ (1,818 ) (42 )% Renewals TCV 2,692 4,325 3,637 (1,633 ) (38 )% 688 19 % Total Signings $ 4,952 $ 6,852 $ 7,982 $ (1,900 ) (28 )% $ (1,130 ) (14 )% Annual recurring revenue signings $ 533 $ 589 $ 883 $ (56 ) (10 )% $ (294 ) (33 )% Non-recurring revenue signings $ 383 $ 438 $ 451 $ (55 ) (13 )% $ (13 ) (3 )% Signings for 2017 decreased compared to the prior year mainly due to strategic decisions by management to streamline our portfolio which impacted both new business and renewal volume. Partially offsetting these declines were new business wins in targeted offerings and expansion with certain existing clients. Signings for 2016 decreased compared to the prior year, primarily reflecting lower contribution from new business, due in part to our decision not to pursue opportunities with lower margins and the prior year large NY MMIS new business signing. Renewal Rate Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue (ARR) on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts for which a renewal decision was made during the period, excluding any contracts that were not renewed and where a strategic action to improve the risk or profitability had been initiated. Excluding our strategic decision not to renew certain contracts, renewal rate for 2017 was 94% and above our target range of 85%-90%. Including all contracts, renewals would have been 87% . Capital Resources and Liquidity As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , total cash and cash equivalents were $658 million and $390 million , respectively. As of December 31, 2017, there were $1,574 million outstanding borrowings under our credit facility and we utilized $12 million of our revolving credit facility capacity to issue letters of credit. In addition, we will make payments in 2018 of $99 million to participants of the terminated deferred compensation plans. Refer to the Capital Market Activity section below for additional information regarding our capital activity. Cash Flow Analysis The following summarizes our cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2017 , as reported in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements: Year Ended December 31, Change (in millions) 2017 2016 2015 2017 2016 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 302 $ 108 $ 493 $ 194 $ (385 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 74 16 522 58 (506 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (109 ) 132 (1,023 ) (241 ) 1,155 Operating Activities The increase in cash generated from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily attributable to improvements in working capital and reduced wind-down payments associated with implementations in California, Montana and New York, partially offset by a higher interest payments on our outstanding debt. The decrease in cash generated from operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily attributable to reduced factoring, HE settlement payments and working capital partially offset by lower net income tax payments due to income tax refunds. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 39 Table of Contents Investing Activities The increase in cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily related to $117 million in proceeds received on the liquidation of investments related to the termination of the deferred compensation plan, $56 million of proceeds from the sale of business and assets as compared to payments of $54 million in 2016, $86 million of lower net additions to land, buildings and equipment, partially offset by non-recurring proceeds of $248 million on related party notes receivable in 2016. The decrease in cash provided by investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily related to $54 million of payments for the sale of business and assets as compared to proceeds of $742 million in 2015, partially offset by proceeds of $248 million from related party notes receivable in 2016. Financing Activities The change to cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 compared to cash provided by for the year ended December 31, 2016 was primarily related to a decrease of $1.7 billion in proceeds from long term debt and an increase in debt payments of $209 million, partially offset by a reduction in payments to former parent of $1.6 billion. The change to cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2016 compared to cash used for the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily related to an increase of $1.9 billion in proceeds from long term debt and a reduction in payments on debt of $261 million, partially offset by an increase in payments to former parent of $957 million. Capital Market Activity In April 2017, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, which reduced the interest rate on our Term Loan B by 1.5% from 5.5% over LIBOR to 4.0% over LIBOR. Subsequently in October 2017, we entered into Amendment No. 2, which reduced the interest rate on our Term Loan B by 1.0% from 4.0% over LIBOR to 3.0% over LIBOR. In January 2017, we borrowed an additional $100 million on Term Loan B with proceeds used for general corporate purposes. Refer to Note 8 Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Financial Instruments Refer to Note 9 Financial Instruments in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments and Contingencies At December 31, 2017 , we had the following contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and contingencies: (in millions) 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Total debt, including capital lease obligations (1) $ 82 $ 72 $ 85 $ 560 $ 9 $ 1,309 Interest on debt (2) 115 113 110 107 91 156 Minimum operating lease commitments (3) 163 119 80 53 31 52 Defined benefit pension plans 8 Estimated Purchase Commitments (4) 116 100 68 38 21 Total $ 484 $ 404 $ 343 $ 758 $ 152 $ 1,517 _______________ (1) Total debt represents principal debt and capital leases. Refer to Note 8 Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding debt. (2) Represents interest on debt. Refer to Note 8 Debt in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3) Refer to Note 5 Land, Buildings, Equipment and Software, Net in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 40 Table of Contents (4) Other purchase commitments: We enter into other purchase commitments with vendors in the ordinary course of business. Our policy with respect to all purchase commitments is to record losses, if any, when they are probable and reasonably estimable. We currently do not have, nor do we anticipate, material loss contracts. Pension Benefit Plans We sponsor defined benefit pension plans that require periodic cash contributions. Our 2017 cash contributions for these plans were $8 million . In 2018 , based on current actuarial calculations, we expect to make contributions of approximately $8 million to our worldwide defined benefit pension plans. Contributions to our defined benefit pension plans in subsequent years will depend on a number of factors, including the investment performance of plan assets and discount rates as well as potential legislative and plan changes. At December 31, 2017 , the unfunded and underfunded balances of our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were $40 million and $19 million , respectively. Refer to Note 11 Employee Benefit Plans in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contributions to our defined benefit pension and post-retirement plans. Other Contingencies and Commitments As more fully discussed in Note 13 Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements, we are involved in a variety of claims, lawsuits, investigations and proceedings concerning: securities law; governmental entity contracting, servicing and procurement law; intellectual property law; environmental law; employment law; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA); and other laws and regulations. In addition, guarantees, indemnifications and claims may arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with suppliers, customers and non-consolidated affiliates. Nonperformance under a contract including a guarantee, indemnification or claim could trigger an obligation of the Company. We determine whether an estimated loss from a contingency should be accrued by assessing whether a loss is deemed probable and can be reasonably estimated. Should developments in any of these areas cause a change in our determination as to an unfavorable outcome and result in the need to recognize a material accrual, or should any of these matters result in a final adverse judgment or be settled for significant amounts, they could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and financial position in the period or periods in which such change in determination, judgment or settlement occurs. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2017 , we do not believe we have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In addition, refer to the preceding table for the Company's contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments and Note 13 Contingencies and Litigation in the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding contingencies, guarantees, indemnifications and warranty liabilities. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We have reported our financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In addition, we have discussed our results using the non-GAAP measures described below. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 41 Table of Contents We believe these non-GAAP measures allow investors to better understand the trends in our business and to better understand and compare our results. Accordingly, we believe it is necessary to adjust several reported amounts, determined in accordance with GAAP, to exclude the effects of certain items as well as their related tax effects. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods results against the corresponding prior periods results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Companys reported results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable U.S. GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions and providing such non-GAAP financial measures to investors allows for a further level of transparency as the factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP are provided in the tables below. These reconciliations also include the income tax effects of our non-GAAP performance measures in total, to the extent applicable. The income tax effects are calculated under the same accounting principles as applied to our reported pre-tax performance measures under ASC 740, which employs an annual effective tax rate method. The income tax effect for our non-GAAP performance measures is effectively the difference in income taxes for reported and adjusted pre-tax income calculated under the annual effective tax rate method. The tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments was calculated based upon evaluation of the statutory tax treatment and the applicable statutory tax rate in the jurisdictions in which such charges were incurred. Adjusted Revenue, Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin* We make adjustments to Revenue and Pre-tax income (Loss) for the following items for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Revenue, Adjusted Operating Income and Adjusted Operating Margin. Goodwill Impairment. Represents Goodwill Impairment charge of $935 million . Amortization of intangible assets. The amortization of intangible assets is driven by acquisition activity, which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. NY MMIS. Revenue and costs associated with the Company not fully completing the State of New York Health Enterprise Platform project. Restructuring and related costs. Restructuring and related costs include restructuring and asset impairment charges as well as costs associated with our strategic transformation program. HE charge. Revenue and costs associated with not fully completing the Health Enterprise Medical Platform projects in California and Montana. Separation costs. Separation costs are expenses incurred in connection with separation from Xerox Corporation into a separate, independent, publicly traded company. These costs primarily relate to third-party investment banking, accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services related to the separation transaction as well as costs associated with the operational separation of the two companies. Interest expense. Interest expense includes interest on long-term debt and amortization of debt issuance costs. Related party interest. Related party interest relates interest on related party Notes payable from Xerox prior to the Separation. Other (income) expenses, net. Other (income) expenses, net includes currency (gains) losses, net, litigation matters and all other (income) expenses, net. (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses. ___________ * Applies to both consolidated and segment disclosures. We provide our investors with adjusted operating income and adjusted operating margin information, as supplemental information, because we believe it offers added insight, by itself and for comparability between periods, by adjusting for certain non-cash items as well as certain other identified items which we do not believe are indicative of our ongoing business and may also provide added insight on trends in our ongoing business. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 42 Table of Contents Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Adjusted Earnings per Share and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate We made adjustments to Income (Loss) before Income Taxes for the following items for the purpose of calculating Adjusted Net Income (Loss), Adjusted Earnings per Share and Adjusted Effective Tax Rate: Goodwill Impairment. Amortization of intangible assets. NY MMIS. Restructuring and related costs. HE charge. Separation costs. (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses. Other (income) expenses, net. The Company provides adjusted net income and adjusted EPS financial measures to assist our investors in evaluating our ongoing operating performance for the current reporting period and, where provided, over different reporting periods, by adjusting for certain items which may be recurring or non-recurring and which in our view do not necessarily reflect ongoing performance. We also internally use these measures to assess our operating performance, both absolutely and in comparison to other companies, and in evaluating or making selected compensation decisions. Management believes that adjusted effective tax rate, provided as supplemental information, facilitates a comparison by investors of our actual effective tax rate with an adjusted effective tax rate which reflects the impact of the items which are excluded in providing adjusted net income, and may provide added insight into our underlying business results and how effective tax rates impact our ongoing business. Segment and Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA and EBITDA Margin We use Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin as additional way of assessing certain aspects of our operations that, when viewed with the GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, provide a more complete understanding of our on-going business. Adjusted EBITDA represents income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization adjusted for the following items: Goodwill Impairment. Restructuring and related costs. Separation costs. Other (income) expenses, net. NY MMIS. NY MMIS depreciation HE charge. HE charge depreciation. (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses. Business transformation costs (Segment only). Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are not intended to represent cash flows from operations, operating income (loss) or net income (loss) as defined by U.S. GAAP as indicators of operating performances. Management cautions that amounts presented in accordance with Conduent's definition of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to similar measures disclosed by other companies because not all companies calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same manner. Key Financial Ratios We make adjustments to Gross margin and SG&A as a percentage on Revenue: NY MMIS. HE charge. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 43 Table of Contents The Company provides adjusted gross margin and adjusted SG&A as a percentage of revenue to assist our investors in evaluating our ongoing operating performance for the current reporting period and, where provided, over different reporting periods, by adjusting for certain items which may be recurring or non-recurring and which in our view do not necessarily reflect ongoing performance. We also internally use these measures to assess our operating performance, both absolutely and in comparison to other companies, and in evaluating or making selected compensation decisions. Non-GAAP Reconciliations Net Income (Loss) and EPS Reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 (in millions; except per share amounts) Net Income (Loss) EPS Net Income (Loss) EPS Net Income (Loss) EPS GAAP as Reported from Continuing Operations $ 177 $ 0.81 $ (983 ) $ (4.85 ) $ (336 ) $ (1.65 ) Adjustments: Goodwill impairment 935 Amortization of intangible assets 243 280 250 NY MMIS 9 161 Restructuring and related costs 101 101 159 HE charge (8 ) 389 Separation costs 12 44 (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses (42 ) 2 Other (income) expenses, net (18 ) 18 30 Less: Income tax adjustments (1) (288 ) (335 ) (318 ) Adjusted Net Income (Loss) and EPS $ 186 $ 0.85 $ 223 $ 1.06 $ 174 $ 0.83 (GAAP Shares in thousand) Weighted average common shares outstanding 204,007 202,875 202,875 Stock options 195 Restricted stock and performance shares 2,491 Adjusted Weighted Average Shares Outstanding (2) 206,693 202,875 202,875 (Non-GAAP Shares in thousand) Weighted average common shares outstanding 204,007 202,875 202,875 Stock options 195 374 374 Restricted stock and performance shares 2,491 2,132 2,132 8% Convertible preferred stock 5,393 5,393 Adjusted Weighted Average Shares Outstanding (2) 206,693 210,774 210,774 ___________ (1) Reflects the income tax (expense) benefit of the adjustments. Refer to Effective Tax Rate reconciliation below for details. (2) Average shares for the 2017 calculation of adjusted EPS excludes 5 million shares associated with our Series A convertible preferred stock and includes the impact of the preferred stock dividend of $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2017. Average shares for the 2016 and 2015 calculation of adjusted EPS includes 5 million shares associated with our Series A convertible preferred stock and excludes the impact of the preferred stock quarterly dividend. Shares associated with our stock compensation plan are included in the calculation of adjusted EPS for all years presented. Effective Tax Reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 (in millions) Pre-Tax Income (loss) Income Tax (Benefit)Expense Effective Tax Rate Pre-Tax Income (loss) Income Tax (Benefit)Expense Effective Tax Rate Pre-Tax Income (loss) Income Tax (Benefit)Expense Effective Tax Rate GAAP as Reported from Continuing Operations $ (16 ) $ (193 ) 1,206.3 % $ (1,227 ) $ (244 ) 19.9 % $ (574 ) $ (238 ) 41.5 % Non-GAAP adjustments Benefit from tax law changes 198 Termination of COLI plan (19 ) Other non-GAAP adjustments 297 109 1,541 335 828 318 Total non-GAAP adjustments (1) 297 288 1,541 335 828 318 Adjusted (2) $ 281 $ 95 33.8 % $ 314 $ 91 29.0 % $ 254 $ 80 31.5 % __________ (1) Refer to Net Income (Loss) reconciliation for details of non-GAAP adjustments. (2) The tax impact of Adjusted Pre-tax income (Loss) from continuing operations is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the 'As Reported' pre-tax income (loss), which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 44 Table of Contents Revenue and Operating Income / Margin Reconciliations: Year Ended December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 (in millions) Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Revenue Margin Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Revenue Margin Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Revenue Margin GAAP as Reported from Continuing Operations $ (16 ) $ 6,022 (0.3 )% $ (1,227 ) $ 6,408 (19.1 )% $ (574 ) $ 6,662 (8.6 )% Adjustments: Goodwill impairment 935 Amortization of intangible assets 243 280 250 NY MMIS 9 161 83 Restructuring and related costs 101 101 159 HE charge (8 ) 389 116 Separation costs 12 44 Interest expense 137 14 8 Related party interest 26 61 (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses (42 ) 2 Other (income) expenses, net (18 ) 18 30 Adjusted Revenue / Operating Income / Margin $ 418 $ 6,022 6.9 % $ 354 $ 6,491 5.5 % $ 323 $ 6,778 4.8 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 Three Months Ended June 30, 2017 (in millions) Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Revenue Margin Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Revenue Margin GAAP as Reported from Continuing Operations $ (22 ) $ 1,553 (1.4 )% $ (11 ) $ 1,496 (0.7 )% Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 61 61 NY MMIS 8 1 Restructuring and related costs 18 36 HE charge (5 ) Separation costs 5 1 Interest expense 36 34 (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses (25 ) Other (income) expenses, net (12 ) (9 ) Adjusted Operating Income / Margin $ 89 $ 1,553 5.7 % $ 88 $ 1,496 5.9 % Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 (in millions) Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Revenue Margin Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Revenue Margin GAAP as Reported from Continuing Operations $ 13 $ 1,480 0.9 % $ 4 $ 1,493 0.3 % Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 60 61 NY MMIS 1 (1 ) Restructuring and related costs 22 25 HE charge (3 ) Separation costs 2 4 Interest expense 35 32 (Gain) loss on sale of asset and businesses (16 ) (1 ) Other (income) expenses, net (3 ) 6 Adjusted Operating Income / Margin $ 111 $ 1,480 7.5 % $ 130 $ 1,493 8.7 % Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 45 Table of Contents Segment and Consolidated Revenue / Profit / Adjusted EBITDA / Adjusted EBITDA Margin Reconciliations: (in millions) Years Ended December 31 Commercial Industries 2017 2016 2015 Segment revenue $ 3,548 $ 3,805 $ 4,059 Segment profit $ 182 $ 151 $ 148 Depreciation & amortization 162 162 160 Adjusted Segment EBITDA $ 344 $ 313 $ 308 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 9.7 % 8.2 % 7.6 % Public Sector Segment revenue $ 2,163 $ 2,308 $ 2,331 Segment profit $ 245 $ 293 $ 298 Depreciation & amortization 85 102 118 Adjusted Segment EBITDA $ 330 $ 395 $ 416 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 15.3 % 17.1 % 17.8 % Other Segment Segment revenue $ 311 $ 295 $ 272 NY MMIS charge 83 HE charge 116 Adjusted Segment Revenue $ 311 $ 378 $ 388 Segment (loss) $ (10 ) $ (248 ) $ (509 ) Business transformation costs (3 ) (3 ) Depreciation & amortization 7 69 72 Segment EBITDA (3 ) (182 ) (440 ) Segment EBITDA Margin (1.0 )% (61.7 )% (161.8 )% NY MMIS charge 9 161 HE charge (8 ) 389 NY MMIS depreciation (52 ) HE depreciation (34 ) Adjusted Segment EBITDA $ (2 ) $ (73 ) $ (85 ) Adjusted EBITDA Margin (0.6 )% (19.3 )% (21.9 )% Conduent Inc. 2017 Annual Report 46 Table of Contents Segment and Consolidated Revenue / Profit / Adjusted EBITDA / Adjusted EBITDA Margin Reconciliations (Cont.): (in millions) Years Ended December 31 2017 2016 2015 Consolidated Reconciliation to Adjusted Revenue Revenue $ 6,022 $ 6,408 $ 6,662 NY MMIS adjustment 83 HE charge 116 Adjusted Revenue $ 6,022 $ 6,491 $ 6,778 Reconciliation to Adjusted EBITDA Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations $ 177 $ (983 ) $ (336 ) Goodwill impairment 935 Restructuring and related costs 101 101 159 Separation costs 12 44 Interest Expense 137 14 8 Related Party Interest 26 61 Income tax benefits (193 ) (244 ) (238 ) (Gain) Loss on sale of assets and business (42 ) 2 Other (income) expenses, net (18 ) 18 30 Depreciation 125 128 126 Amortization 372 485 474 EBITDA $ 671 $ 526 $ 284 EBITDA Margin 11.1 % 8.2 % 4.3 % EBITDA $ 671 $ 526 $ 284 Adjustments: NY MMIS 9 161 NY MMIS depreciation (52 ) HE charge (8 ) 389 HE charge depreciation (34 ) Adjusted EBITDA $ 672 $ 635 $ 639 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 11.2 % 9.8 % 9.4 % Key Financial Ratios Reconciliation: Year Ended December 31, 2017 Year Ended December 31, 2016 Year Ended December 31, 2015 (in millions) Gross Margin SG&A as % of Revenue Gross Margin SG&A as % of Revenue Gross Margin SG&A as % of Revenue GAAP As Reported 17.4 % 10.2 % 14.2 % 10.7 % 10.3 % 10.5 % Adjustments: NY MMIS charge 0.1 2.3 (0.1 ) HE charge (0.1 ) 5.5 (0.2 ) Adjusted 17.4 % 10.2 % 16.5 % 10.6 % 15.8 % 10.3 %