ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our accompanying Condensed Combined Financial Statements and the notes thereto .This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts, but rather are based on current expectations, estimates, Conduent Form 10-Q 22 assumptions and projections about the business process outsourcing industry and our business and financial results. Forward-looking statements often include words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, intends, plans, believes and words and terms of similar substance in connection with discussions of future operating or financial performance. Our actual results may vary materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on any forward-looking statement made by us or on our behalf. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to a number of factors, including those discussed in the section of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q entitled "Forward-Looking Statements" and the sections of our Registration Statement on Form 10 entitled Risk Factors and Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements. Introduction The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand the financial condition and results of operations of the BPS Business. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our accompanying Condensed Combined Financial Statements and the notes thereto. MD&A provides additional information about our operations, current developments, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Overview . This section provides a general description of our business, as well as recent developments we believe are important in understanding our results of operations and financial condition or in understanding anticipated future trends. Results of Operations . This section provides an analysis of our results of operations for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. Capital Resources and Liquidity . This section provides a discussion of our current financial condition and an analysis of our cash flows for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015. This section also provides a discussion of our contractual obligations and commitments and off-balance sheet arrangements. Included in this section is a discussion of the amount of financial capacity available to fund our future commitments and ongoing operating activities. Market Risk Management . This section presents information about our market sensitive financial instruments and exposure to market risks as of September 30, 2016. For purposes of this MD&A section, we use the terms "Conduent Incorporated," Conduent, the Company, we, us and our to refer to Xerox's business process outsourcing business and related operations. References in this MD&A section to Xerox refer to Xerox Corporation, collectively with its consolidated subsidiaries other than, for all periods following the Spin-Off, Conduent. Overview Spin-off Transaction On January 29, 2016, Xerox announced plans for the complete legal and structural separation of the BPS Business from Xerox. To effect the separation, Xerox will complete the Internal Transactions described under Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions-Agreements with Xerox-Separation and Distribution Agreement. Following the Internal Transactions, Conduent will hold the BPS Business. The Spin-Off will be completed by way of a pro rata dividend of Conduent shares held by Xerox to Xerox stockholders of record as of the Record Date. Following the Spin-Off, Xerox stockholders will own 100% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Conduent and Conduent will operate as an independent, publicly-traded company. Currency Impact To understand the trends in our business, we believe that it is helpful to analyze the impact of changes in the translation of foreign currencies into U.S. Dollars on revenue and expenses. We refer to this analysis as currency impact or the impact from currency or "constant currency". In 2016 and 2015, this impact is calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period's currency translation rate. Three and Nine Months ended September 30, 2016 Review Total revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2016 of $1.6 billion increased 2% compared to prior-year period. On an adjusted 1 basis (described below), total revenues decreased 5% with minimal currency impact, as Conduent Form 10-Q 23 growth in Public Sector was more than offset by declines in Commercial Industries and Healthcare. Operating margin for the three months ended September 30, 2016 of 6.1% improved 0.4-percentage points as compared to the prior-year period, reflecting cost and productivity improvements, including benefits from our strategic transformation program. Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 of $4.9 billion decreased 1% compared to prior-year period. On an adjusted 1 basis, total revenues decreased 3% with a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency, as growth in Public Sector more than offset by declines in Commercial Industries and Healthcare. Operating margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 of 5.0% improved 0.5-percentage points as compared to the prior-year period, reflecting cost and productivity improvements, including benefits from our strategic transformation program, as well as lower expenses from our determination to refocus our Government Healthcare business, especially our HE platform implementations. _______________ (1) Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. Financial Review Basis of Presentation The Condensed Combined Financial Statements of the BPS Business have been derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and accounting records of Xerox as if the BPS Business operated on a standalone basis during the periods presented and were prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC. Historically, the BPS Business consisted of the Business Processing Outsourcing Operating segment within Xerox's reportable Services segment and did not operate as a separate, standalone company. Accordingly, its financial position and the related results of operations, cash flows and changes in equity have been reported in Xerox's Consolidated Financial Statements. We have prepared the unaudited Condensed Combined Financial Statements in accordance with the accounting policies described in our audited 2015 Combined Financial Statements, contained in the Company's Registration Statement on Form 10 filed with the SEC, on June 30, 2016, as amended and the interim reporting requirements of U.S. GAAP. Accordingly, certain information and note disclosures normally included in our annual combined financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP have been condensed or omitted. You should read these Condensed Combined Financial Statements in conjunction with the 2015 Combined Financial Statements contained in our Registration Statement on Form 10. In the opinion of management, all adjustments which are necessary for a fair statement of financial position, operating results and cash flows for the interim periods presented have been made. These adjustments consist of normal recurring items. Interim results of operations are not necessarily indicative of the results of the full year. Conduent Form 10-Q 24 As the separate legal entities and divisions that make up the BPS Business were not historically held by a single legal entity, Total Net Parent Equity is shown in lieu of shareholder's equity in these Condensed Combined Financial Statements. Balances between the BPS Business and Xerox that were not historically settled in cash are included in Net Parent Investment. Net Parent Investment represents Xerox's interest in the recorded assets of the BPS Business and represents the cumulative investment by Xerox in the BPS Business through the dates presented, inclusive of operating results. The Condensed Combined Financial Statements include the historical basis of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses of the individual businesses of Xerox's historical BPS Business including the joint ventures and partnerships over which the BPS Business has a controlling financial interest. The BPS Business uses the equity method to account for investments in business entities that it does not control if it is otherwise able to exercise significant influence over the entities operating and financial policies (generally 20% to 50% ownership). The Condensed Combined Financial Statements include certain assets and liabilities that are held by Xerox that are specifically identifiable or otherwise attributable to the BPS Business. All intercompany transactions and balances within the BPS Business have been eliminated. Cash is managed centrally through bank accounts controlled and maintained by Xerox. Accordingly, cash and cash equivalents held by Xerox at the corporate level were not attributable to the BPS Business for any of the periods presented. Only cash amounts specifically attributable to the BPS Business are reflected in the Condensed Combined Balance Sheets. Transfers of cash, both to and from Xerox's centralized cash management system, are reflected as a component of Net Parent Investment in the Condensed Combined Balance Sheets and as a financing activity on the accompanying Condensed Combined Statements of Cash Flows. Historically, the BPS Business received or provided funding as part of Xerox's centralized treasury program. Third-party debt obligations of Xerox and the corresponding financing costs related to those debt obligations, specifically those that relate to senior notes, term loans, commercial paper obligations and revolving credit facilities, have not been attributed to the BPS Business, as the BPS Business was not the legal obligor on the debt. The only third-party debt obligations included in these Condensed Combined Financial Statements are those for which the legal obligor is a legal entity within the BPS Business. During the periods presented, the BPS Business functioned as part of the larger group of companies controlled by Xerox. Accordingly, Xerox performed certain corporate overhead functions for the BPS Business. Therefore, certain corporate costs, including compensation costs for corporate employees supporting the BPS Business, have been allocated from Xerox. These allocated costs are for corporate functions including, but not limited to, senior management, legal, human resources, finance and accounting, treasury, information technology, marketing and communications, internal audit and other shared services, which are not provided at the business level. Where possible, these costs were allocated based on direct usage, with the remainder allocated on a basis of cost, headcount or other measures we have determined as reasonable. The Condensed Combined Financial Statements do not necessarily include all the expenses that would have been incurred or held by the BPS Business had it been a separate, standalone company. We expect to incur additional expenses as well as gain incremental productivity as a separate, standalone publicly-traded company. It is not practicable to estimate actual costs that would have been incurred had the BPS Business been a separate, standalone company during the periods presented. Allocations for management costs and corporate support services provided to the BPS Business totaled $41 million and $125 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, respectively, and $40 million and $127 million for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015, respectively. The management of the BPS Business believes the assumptions underlying the Condensed Combined Financial Statements, including the assumptions regarding the allocated expenses, reasonably reflect the utilization of services provided to or the benefit received by the BPS Business during the periods presented. Nevertheless, the Condensed Combined Financial Statements may not be indicative of the BPS Business's future performance, and do not necessarily include all of the actual expenses that would have been incurred by the BPS Business and may not reflect the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of the BPS Business had the BPS Business been a separate, standalone company during the periods presented. Conduent Form 10-Q 25 Operations of the BPS Business are included in the consolidated U.S. federal, and certain state and local and foreign income tax returns filed by Xerox, where applicable. The BPS Business also files certain separate state and local and foreign income tax returns. Income tax expense and other income tax related information contained in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements are presented on a separate return basis as if the BPS Business filed its own tax returns. The income taxes of the BPS Business, as presented in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements, may not be indicative of the income taxes that the BPS Business will generate in the future. In jurisdictions where the BPS Business has been included in the tax returns filed by Xerox, any income taxes payable resulting from the related income tax provisions have been reflected in the balance sheet within "Net Parent Investment." For convenience and ease of reference, we refer to the financial statement caption Income (Loss) before Income Taxes as pre-tax income (loss) throughout the Notes to the Condensed Combined Financial Statements. During the 2016 second quarter closing process, we determined that the first quarter 2016 income tax benefit of $25 should have been $6 higher. This additional income tax benefit was adjusted for in the second quarter of 2016 and included in the nine month results ended September 30, 2016. We will revise the first quarter 2016 results in future filings to reflect this adjustment. The Company concluded that this item was not material to the condensed combined financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2016. 2015 Health Enterprise (HE) Charges Prior year results include a pre-tax charge (HE charge) of $389 million ($237 million after-tax) associated with our third quarter 2015 decision to not fully complete the HE implementations in California and Montana. The charge included a $116 million reduction to revenues with the remaining $273 million recorded to costs of outsourcing. The above developments followed the change in strategy in our Government Healthcare business announced in second quarter 2015 to focus our future HE platform implementations on current Medicaid customers and to discontinue investment in and sales of an integrated eligibility system. This change resulted in a pre-tax, non-cash software impairment charge of $146 million ($89 million after-tax). As a result of the significant year-over-year impact of the HE charge and the software impairment charge on our reported revenues, earnings and key metrics, we are also comparing our current year results to adjusted prior year results, which exclude these charges. These adjusted results and comparisons are noted as "adjusted" in the discussion below. Results of Operations Revenue Results Summary Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 % Change CC % Change 2016 2015 % Change CC % Change Total Revenues $ 1,596 $ 1,571 2 % 3 % $ 4,894 $ 4,932 (1 )% (1 )% Adjusted Total Revenues (1) $ 1,596 $ 1,687 (5 )% (5 )% $ 4,894 $ 5,048 (3 )% (2 )% _______________ CC - See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for description of Constant Currency. (1) See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. Total revenues for third quarter 2016 increased 2% compared to third quarter 2015 . On an adjusted 1 basis, excluding the HE charge, total revenues decreased 5%, with minimal currency impact. Overall, non-U.S. revenues represented just over 20% of total revenues (Pound Sterling-denominated revenues represented approximately 2% of total revenues). The decline was driven by the run-off of the Student Loan business and our third quarter 2015 decision to not fully complete the HE platform implementations in California and Montana, which combined had approximately a 1.7-percentage point impact. In addition, revenues decreased due to lower volumes and lost business, particularly in Commercial Industries, as well as overall price declines that were consistent with prior-period trends. Partially Conduent Form 10-Q 26 offsetting these declines were ramping new contracts, particularly in Public Sector, and moderating growth from acquisitions, primarily in Healthcare. Total revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 decreased 1% compared to the prior-year period. On an adjusted 1 basis, total revenues decreased 3%, with a 1-percentage point negative impact from currency. Overall non-U.S. revenues represented just over 20% of total revenues (Pound Sterling-denominated revenues represented approximately 2% of total revenues). The decline was driven by the run-off of the Student Loan business and our third quarter 2015 decision to not fully complete the HE platform implementations in California and Montana, which combined had approximately a 1.3-percentage point impact. In addition, revenues decreased due to lower volumes and lost business, particularly in Commercial Industries, as well as overall price declines that were consistent with prior-period trends. Partially offsetting these declines were moderate growth from acquisitions and ramping new contracts, primarily in some areas of Healthcare and Public Sector. _______________ (1) Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. Costs, Expenses and Other Income Summary of Key Financial Ratios The following is a summary of key financial ratios used to assess our performance: Reported Reported Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 B/(W) 2016 2015 B/(W) Total Gross Margin 16.8 % (7.1 )% 23.9 pts. 16.1 % 8.1 % 8.0 pts. R&D as a % of Revenue 0.4 % 0.8 % 0.4 pts. 0.5 % 0.8 % 0.3 pts. SAG as a % of Revenue 10.3 % 10.8 % 0.5 pts. 10.6 % 10.6 % pts. Pre-tax Income Margin 0.1 % (24.8 )% 24.9 pts. (1.8 )% (11.8 )% 10.0 pts. Operating Margin (1) N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Adjusted (2) Adjusted (2) Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 B/(W) 2016 2015 B/(W) Total Gross Margin 16.8 % 16.5 % 0.3 pts. 16.1 % 15.6 % 0.5 pts. R&D as a % of Revenue 0.4 % 0.7 % 0.3 pts. 0.5 % 0.8 % 0.3 pts. SAG as a % of Revenue 10.3 % 10.1 % (0.2 ) pts. 10.6 % 10.3 % (0.3 ) pts. Pre-tax Income Margin N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Operating Margin (1) 6.1 % 5.7 % 0.4 pts. 5.0 % 4.5 % 0.5 pts. _______________ (1) Refer to the Operating Income/Margin reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. (2) Refer to the Key Financial Ratios Reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Pre-tax Income Margin Pre-tax income margin for third quarter 2016 of 0.1% increased 24.9-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2015. The increase was primarily driven by the third quarter 2015 HE charge of $389 million partially offset by separation costs. Pre-tax income margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 of (1.8)% increased 10.0-percentage points as compared to the prior year period. The increase was primarily driven by the second quarter 2015 $146 million software impairment charge and the third quarter 2015 HE charge of $389 million and was partially offset by higher 2016 restructuring and related costs as well as separation costs. Conduent Form 10-Q 27 Pre-tax income margin includes the amortization of intangible assets, related party interest, net, other expenses, net, restructuring and related costs and separation costs, all of which are separately discussed in subsequent sections. Operating margin excludes these items. Operating Margin Operating margin 1 of 6.1% for third quarter 2016 increased by 0.4-percentage points as compared to third quarter 2015 . The increase was primarily driven by an improvement in gross margin due to reduced costs in our HE platform implementations as well as more favorable line-of-business mix and greater cost productivity, including benefits from our strategic transformation program. These benefits were partially offset by increased expense, particularly in SAG, due to favorable prior-year compensation adjustments. As noted above, the BPS Business operating margin contains an allocation for management cost and corporate support services totaling $41 million and $40 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Operating margin 1 of 5.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, increased 0.5-percentage points as compared to the prior year period. The increase was driven by an improvement in gross margin due to reduced costs in our HE platform implementations as well as more favorable line-of-business mix and greater cost productivity, including benefits from our strategic transformation program. As noted above, the BPS Business operating margin contains an allocation for management cost and corporate support services totaling $125 million and $127 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. _______________ (1) Refer to the Operating Income / Margin reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Gross Margin Gross margin of 16.8% for third quarter 2016, increased 23.9-percentage points or 0.3-percentage points on an adjusted 1 basis as compared to third quarter 2015. The increase reflected restructuring and productivity improvements, benefits from lower expenses associated with our HE platform implementations (a result of decisions we made in 2015 to curtail this business) and favorable line-of-business mix. These benefits were partially offset by continued margin pressures in our customer care service offerings, lower profitability in our Student Loan business and price declines. Gross margin of 16.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, increased 8.0-percentage points or 0.5-percentage points on an adjusted 1 basis as compared to the prior year period. The increase reflected restructuring and productivity improvements, benefits from lower expenses associated with our HE platform implementations (a result of decisions we made in 2015 to curtail the Government HE Medicaid Platform business) and favorable line-of-business mix. These benefits were partially offset by continued margin pressures in our customer care service offerings, lower profitability in our Student Loan business and price declines. Additional analysis of the change in gross margin for each business segment is included under "Operations Review of Segment Revenue and Profit" below. _______________ (1) Refer to the Key Financial Ratios reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Research & Development Expenses (R&D) Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 Change 2016 2015 Change Total R&D Expenses $ 7 $ 12 $ (5 ) $ 25 $ 39 $ (14 ) R&D as a percentage of revenue of 0.4% decreased 0.4-percentage points or 0.3-percentage points on an adjusted 1 basis from third quarter 2015. The decrease was due primarily to lower R&D program spending and the benefits from ongoing restructuring. R&D of $7 million decreased by $5 million compared to third quarter 2015. R&D as a percentage of revenue of 0.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 decreased 0.3-percentage points on an actual and adjusted 1 basis compared to the prior year period. The decrease was due primarily to lower R&D program spending and the benefits from ongoing restructuring. R&D of $25 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, decreased by $14 million compared to the prior year period. Conduent Form 10-Q 28 _______________ (1) Refer to the Key Financial Ratios reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Selling, Administrative and General Expenses (SAG) SAG as a percentage of revenue of 10.3% decreased 0.5-percentage points from third quarter 2015. On an adjusted basis 1 , SAG increased 0.2-percentage points, as benefits from restructuring and cost initiatives only partially offset the decline in total revenues and higher expenses due to favorable prior-year compensation adjustments. SAG of $164 million was $6 million lower than the third quarter 2015 and reflected the following: $8 million decrease in selling expenses $2 million increase in general and administrative expenses SAG as a percentage of revenue of 10.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was flat compared to the prior year period. On an adjusted 1 basis, SAG increased 0.3-percentage points, as benefits from restructuring and cost initiatives were offset by the decline in total revenues and higher expenses due to favorable prior-year compensation adjustments. SAG of $517 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was $5 million lower than from the prior year period and reflected the following: $9 million decrease in selling expenses $2 million increase in general and administrative expenses $2 million increase in bad debt expense _______________ (1) Refer to the Key Financial Ratios reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Restructuring and Related Costs Third quarter 2016 restructuring and related costs of $8 million primarily relate to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. During third quarter 2016, there was no impact to net restructuring and asset impairment charges as approximately $4 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions were offset by $4 million of net reversals, primarily resulting from changes in estimated reserves from prior-period initiatives. During third quarter 2015, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $9 million, which included approximately $11 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 700 employees worldwide, partially offset by $2 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior-period initiatives. Restructuring and related costs of $57 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 includes restructuring and asset impairment charges of $45 million as well as $12 million of additional costs primarily related to professional support services associated with the implementation of the strategic transformation program. During the nine months ended September 30, 2016, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $45 million which include approximately $52 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 3,300 employees worldwide, $2 million of lease cancellation costs and $2 million in asset impairments. These costs were partially offset by $11 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves. During nine months ended September 30, 2015, we recorded net restructuring and asset impairment charges of $160 million which included $19 million of severance costs related to headcount reductions of approximately 1,160 employees worldwide and $1 million of lease cancellation costs, partially offset by $6 million of net reversals for changes in estimated reserves from prior-period initiatives. Asset impairments charges of $146 million were associated with software asset impairments resulting from the change in strategy in our Government Healthcare business, discussed above. The restructuring reserve balance as of September 30, 2016 for all programs was $10 million, all of which is expected to be spent over the next twelve months. Refer to Note 6 - Restructuring Programs, in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements for additional information regarding our restructuring programs. Amortization of Intangible Assets Conduent Form 10-Q 29 Third quarter 2016 amortization of intangible assets of $63 million increased $1 million compared to third quarter 2015. Amortization of intangible assets of $200 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, increased $13 million compared to prior year period, primarily due to the accelerated amortization of a customer relationship asset in first quarter 2016 as a result of a lost contract. Separation Costs Separation costs are primarily for third-party investment banking, accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services related to the separation transaction as well as costs associated with the operational separation of the two companies, such as those related to human resources, brand management, real estate and information management to the extent not capitalized. Separation costs also include the costs associated with bonuses and restricted stock grants awarded to employees for retention through the separation. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016, we recorded separation costs of $15 million and $34 million, respectively, which exclude tax-related separation costs discussed below in Income Taxes. Related-Party Interest Expense, Net Related-party interest expense for third quarter 2016 of $10 million was $4 million lower compared to third quarter 2015, primarily due to the capitalization of certain related party notes payable in 2015 as a result of the proceeds received from the sale of the ITO business. Related-party interest expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 of $30 million was $20 million lower than prior year primarily due to the capitalization of certain related party notes payable in 2015 as a result of the proceeds received from the sale of the ITO business. Refer to Note 13 - Related Party Transactions and Parent Company Investment in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements for additional information regarding related-party interest expense, net. Worldwide Employment Worldwide employment was approximately 93,700 as of September 30, 2016 and decreased by 10,100 from December 31, 2015 , due primarily to the impact of restructuring and productivity reductions as well as seasonal reductions, partially offset by additions from ramping new business. Other Expenses, Net Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Third-party interest expense $ 1 $ 1 $ 3 $ 7 Losses (gains) on sales of businesses and assets (1) (2 ) (1 ) (1 ) Currency (gains) losses, net (1 ) 1 (3 ) 3 Litigation matters 4 6 15 10 Deferred compensation investment (gains) losses (2 ) 5 (5 ) 1 All other expenses, net (1 ) (1 ) 1 2 Total Other Expenses, Net $ (1 ) $ 12 $ 10 $ 22 _______________ (1) Excludes the loss on sale of the ITO business reported in Discontinued Operations. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements for additional information. Third-Party Interest Expense: Represents interest on senior notes and capital lease obligations. Currency (Gains) Losses, Net: Currency (gains) losses primarily result from the re-measurement of foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, the cost of hedging foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities and the mark-to-market of foreign exchange contracts utilized to hedge those foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities. Litigation Matters: Litigation matters reflect probable losses and reserves for various legal matters. Refer to Note 11 - Contingencies and Litigation, in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements for additional information regarding litigation against the Company. Conduent Form 10-Q 30 Deferred Compensation Investment (Gains) Losses: Represents (gains) losses on investments supporting certain of our deferred compensation arrangements. These gains or losses are offset by an increase or decrease in compensation expense recorded in SAG as a result of the increase or decrease in the liability associated with these arrangements, respectively. Income Taxes Third quarter 2016 effective tax rate was 50.0%. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily as a result of pre-tax losses in the U.S. due to the following charges: Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and Separation costs, including tax-related separation costs discussed below in Income Taxes. The U.S. pre-tax losses are taxed at a higher rate than our foreign pre-tax income, which has the effect of increasing the overall effective tax rate above the statutory tax rate. On an adjusted 1 basis, third quarter 2016 effective tax rate was 39.8% which excludes the tax effects of the previously noted charges. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of profits. The nine months ended September 30, 2016 effective tax rate was 62.8%. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily as a result of pre-tax losses in the U.S. due to the following charges: Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and Separation costs, including tax-related separation costs discussed below in Income Taxes. The U.S. pre-tax losses are taxed at a higher rate than our foreign pre-tax income, which has the effect of increasing the overall effective tax rate above the statutory tax rate. On an adjusted 1 basis, the nine months ended September 30, 2016 effective tax rate, which excludes the tax effects of the previously noted charges, was 22.4%. This rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of profits as well as the redetermination of certain unrecognized tax positions upon conclusion of several audits. Third quarter 2015 effective tax rate was 39.5%. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily as a result of pre-tax losses in the U.S. due to the following charges: Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and the HE charge. The U.S. pre-tax losses are taxed at a higher rate than our foreign pre-tax income, which has the effect of increasing the overall effective tax rate above the statutory tax rate. On an adjusted 1 basis, third quarter 2015 effective tax rate was 35.7% which excludes the tax effects of the previously noted charges. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of profits. The nine months ended September 30, 2015 effective tax rate was 40.7%. This rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily as a result of pre-tax losses in the U.S. due to the following charges: Restructuring and related costs, Amortization of intangible assets and the HE charge. The U.S. pre-tax losses are taxed at a higher rate than our foreign pre-tax income, which has the effect of increasing the overall effective tax rate above the statutory tax rate. On an adjusted 1 basis, the nine months ended September 30, 2015 effective tax rate was 31.8%, which excludes the tax effects of the previously noted charges. This rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the geographical mix of profits. Tax-related Separation Costs We recorded a deferred tax benefit/asset of $6 million on our separation costs for third quarter 2016 and $13 million for the 2016 year-to-date period. We estimate half of the year-to-date deferred tax asset will be eliminated at the time the separation is executed, as certain separation costs are expected to be non-deductible. In connection with the Spin-Off, Xerox will undertake the Internal Transactions, which we expect to include internal reorganizations of, and transactions among, our wholly-owned subsidiaries and operating activities. Although we believe that, for the most part, the Internal Transactions can be completed in a tax-free manner, we do expect to incur incremental income tax expense associated with certain elements of the Internal Transactions. Accordingly, for year-to-date 2016, we recorded $10 million for the estimated income tax on the book/tax basis differences currently associated with our investments in certain subsidiaries that are expected to be impacted by the Internal Transactions. Upon the completion of the Spin-Off, we also expect to recognize additional income tax expense in certain state and international jurisdictions primarily related to the change in realizability of certain deferred tax assets. _______________ (1) Refer to the Effective Tax Rate reconciliation table in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section. Conduent Form 10-Q 31 Net Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations Third quarter 2016 income from continuing operations was $1 million. On an adjusted 1 basis, net income from continuing operations was $53 million reflecting the adjustments for the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs and separation costs. Third quarter 2015 net loss from continuing operations was $236 million. On an adjusted 1 basis, net income from continuing operations was $45 million reflecting the adjustments for the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring charges and the HE charge. Net loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was $32 million. On an adjusted 1 basis, net income from continuing operations was $159 million reflecting the adjustments for the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs and separation costs. Net loss from continuing operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was $345 million. On an adjusted 1 basis, net income from continuing operations was $105 million reflecting the adjustments for the amortization of intangible assets, restructuring and related costs and the HE charge . _______________ (1) Refer to the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for a reconciliation of reported net income from continuing operations to adjusted net income. Discontinued Operations There were no Discontinued Operations as of September 30, 2016. Refer to Note 4 - Divestitures in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements for additional information regarding Discontinued Operations. Other Comprehensive Loss Third quarter 2016 Other comprehensive loss was $9 million as compared to a loss of $27 million in the third quarter 2015. The change of $18 million, is primarily due to a $18 million change from the translation of our foreign currency denominated net assets. The third quarter 2016 reflects translation losses of $10 million primarily as a result of the weakening of our major foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. Dollar at quarter-end spot rates. Third quarter 2015 reflects translation losses of $28 million primarily due to a significant weakening of those same foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in the prior year. Other comprehensive loss was $22 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, as compared to a loss of $44 million in prior year period. The change of $22 million, is primarily due to a $22 million change from the translation of our foreign currency denominated net assets. The nine months ended September 30, 2016 reflects translation losses of $25 million primarily as a result of the weakening of our major foreign currencies as compared to the U.S. Dollar at quarter-end spot rates. The nine months ended September 30, 2015 reflects translation losses of $47 million primarily due to a significant weakening of those same foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar in the prior year. Offsetting this change were net gains from changes in defined benefit plans of $2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to net gains of $3 million in the prior year period. Refer to Note 9 - Employee Benefit Plans in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements for additional information regarding net changes in defined benefit plans. Conduent Form 10-Q 32 Operations Review of Segment Revenue and Profit Our reportable segments correspond to how we organize and manage the business and are aligned to the industries in which our clients operate: Commercial Industries, Healthcare and Public Sector. Revenues by segment for the three months and nine months ended September 30 were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Total Revenue % of Total Revenue Segment Profit (Loss) Segment Margin 2016 Commercial Industries $ 664 41 % $ 21 3.2 % Healthcare 397 25 % 38 9.6 % Public Sector 443 28 % 59 13.3 % Other 92 6 % (21 ) (22.8 )% Total $ 1,596 100 % $ 97 6.1 % 2015 Commercial Industries $ 720 46 % $ 14 1.9 % Healthcare 422 27 % 32 7.6 % Public Sector 429 27 % 51 11.9 % Other % (390 ) * Total $ 1,571 100 % $ (293 ) (18.7 )% Adjusted: (1) Other $ 116 7 % $ (1 ) (0.9 )% Total $ 1,687 N/A $ 96 5.7 % Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) Total Revenue % of Total Revenue Segment Profit (Loss) Segment Margin 2016 Commercial Industries $ 2,030 42 % $ 44 2.2 % Healthcare 1,277 26 % 112 8.8 % Public Sector 1,290 26 % 163 12.6 % Other 297 6 % (74 ) (24.9 )% Total $ 4,894 100 % $ 245 5.0 % 2015 Commercial Industries $ 2,161 44 % $ 51 2.4 % Healthcare 1,293 26 % 113 8.7 % Public Sector 1,283 26 % 145 11.3 % Other 195 4 % (469 ) * Total $ 4,932 100 % $ (160 ) (3.2 )% Adjusted: (1) Other $ 311 6 % $ (80 ) (25.7 )% Total $ 5,048 N/A $ 229 4.5 % _______________ * Percent not meaningful. (1) See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. Conduent Form 10-Q 33 Commercial Industries Segment Revenue Commercial Industries revenue of $664 million for third quarter 2016 was 41% of total revenues and decreased 8% from third quarter 2015. The decline was driven by lost business, lower volumes and a reduced level of project work year-over-year as a result of fewer large cases in our litigation services offering, as well as negative impacts from currency. Partially offsetting the decline were benefits from ramping new contracts, primarily in our high-tech business area. Commercial Industries revenue of $2,030 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was 42% of total revenues and decreased 6% from the prior-year period. The decline was driven by lost business, lower volumes and a reduced project work year-over-year as a result of fewer large cases in our litigation services offering, as well as negative impacts from currency. Partially offsetting the decline were benefits from ramping new contracts, primarily in our high-tech business area. Segment Margin Commercial Industries segment margin of 3.2% for third quarter 2016, increased 1.3-percentage points from the prior-year period as benefits from strategic transformation cost initiatives more than offset margin pressure in our customer care services offering and reduced project work in our litigation services offering. During 2016 segment margin improved sequentially from 1.0% in first quarter to 2.4% in second quarter and to 3.2% in third quarter. Commercial Industries segment margin of 2.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, decreased 0.2-percentage points from the prior-year period primarily due to margin pressure in our customer care services offering and reduced project work in our litigation services offering only partially offset by cost and productivity benefits. Commercial Industries has a higher proportion of multi-industry service offerings, particularly customer care that naturally has a lower margin, as opposed to higher-value, industry-specific service offerings. Accordingly, overall margins in this segment are expected to be below the margins of the Healthcare and Public Sector segments where industry-specific service offerings are more prominent. In addition, in 2015 we began to experience cost and productivity challenges in our customer care service offering which further pressured margins and which are being addressed by new customer care leadership through the strategic transformation program. Healthcare Segment Revenue Healthcare revenue of $397 million for the third quarter of 2016, was 25% of total revenues and decreased 6% from third quarter 2015. The decline was driven by lost business and lower volumes including actions we have taken to improve profitability. These areas of decline were partially offset by ramping new business and moderating acquisition contribution. Healthcare revenue of $1,277 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was 26% of total revenues and decreased 1% from the prior-year period. The decline was driven by lost business and lower volumes including actions we have taken to improve profitability. These areas of decline were partially offset by ramping new business and moderate acquisition contribution. Segment Margin Healthcare segment margin of 9.6% for the third quarter 2016, increased 2.0-percentage points from third quarter 2015 primarily due to overall benefits from cost and productivity initiatives and from actions to improve profitability which more than offset margin pressures in our customer care service offering and the impacts of lost business and lower volumes. During 2016 segment margin improved sequentially from 8.0% in first quarter to 8.9% in second quarter to 9.6% in third quarter. Healthcare segment margin of 8.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, increased 0.1-percentage point from the prior year primarily due to overall benefits from cost and productivity initiatives and from actions to improve profitability which offset margin pressures in our customer care service offering and the impacts of lost business and lower volumes. Conduent Form 10-Q 34 Public Sector Segment Revenue Public Sector revenue of $443 million for the third quarter 2016, was 28% of total revenues and increased 3% compared to third quarter 2015. Growth was primarily driven by ramping new contracts in our transportation offering. Public Sector revenue of $1,290 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 was 26% of total revenues and increased 1% compared to the prior-year period as growth from ramping new business in transportation was partially offset by lower volumes and lost business in state government services. Segment Margin Public Sector segment margin of 13.3% for the third quarter 2016, increased 1.4-percentage points compared to the third quarter 2015, due to cost and productivity improvements and improved performance in transportation. During 2016 segment margin was 10.4% in first quarter, 14.1% in the second quarter and 13.3% in third quarter. Public Sector segment margin of 12.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, increased 1.3-percentage points from the prior year period, as overall benefits from cost and productivity initiatives and improved performance in transportation was partially offset by the impact of lost business in state government services. Other Revenue Other revenue of $92 million for the third quarter 2016, was 6% of total revenues and decreased 21% on an adjusted 1 basis from third quarter 2015. The decline was driven by the run-off of the Student Loan business and our prior-year decision to not complete the HE implementations in California and Montana. Other revenue of $297 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, was 6% of total revenues and decreased 5% on an adjusted 1 basis from the prior-year period. The decline was driven by the run-off of the Student Loan business and our prior-year decision to not complete the HE implementations in California and Montana partially offset by ramp of the New York HE platform implementation contract. Other Loss Other loss of $21 million improved $369 million from third quarter 2015. On an adjusted 1 basis, Other loss increased $20 million primarily due to lower profitability in the Student Loan business. Other loss of $74 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016, improved $395 million from the prior-year period. On an adjusted 1 basis, Other loss decreased $6 million driven by improvements in HE platform implementation expenses resulting from the refocusing of our Government Healthcare business in 2015 and the decision to not fully complete the HE platform implementations in California and Montana, which more than offset lower profitability in the Student Loan business. _______________ (1) See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for an explanation of the non-GAAP financial measure. Commercial Services Goodwill As disclosed in our 2016 Form 10, the fair value of the Commercial Services reporting unit (which has approximately $1.9 billion of goodwill) exceeded its carrying value by approximately 17%. During the nine-month period ended September 30, 2016, revenues and operating profits for our Commercial Services reporting unit decreased by 7% and 3%, respectively, as compared to the prior year. Although we continue to focus on profitable revenue growth and cost improvements in this business; depending on the duration of this trend and our ability to manage through it, there is a possibility that certain assumptions and estimates, including cash flow projections, used for the upcoming fourth quarter 2016 annual goodwill impairment analysis for this reporting unit could be unfavorably impacted. The Company intends to complete its goodwill impairment analysis for all reporting units during the fourth quarter 2016. Conduent Form 10-Q 35 Government Healthcare Our HE platform is performing to contractual standards in the states where it has been fully implemented, which include New Hampshire, Alaska and North Dakota. New Hampshire was certified by the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services in June 2015, and we are currently in the process of getting our Alaska HE implementation certified and in the planning phase of North Dakota certification. We continue to strengthen and improve our platform development and systems integration capabilities with additional resources and enhanced program management and quality control practices. Due to a number of factors, development work to implement the HE platform in New York has been elongated beyond the current contractual schedule resulting in, among other things, increased delivery costs, which we have considered in our estimates of revenues and costs under the percentage-of-completion accounting methodology. We continue to work with New York to address new regulatory requirements, policy changes and enhanced security protocols, which are expected to further lengthen the schedule and may result in material increases in future costs to complete. We are seeking to mitigate these impacts through a combination of operational actions as well as by working with New York to pursue an amendment to the contract that will revise the project schedule and increase the reimbursement we receive. Metrics Signings Signings are defined as estimated future revenues from contracts signed during the period, including renewals of existing contracts. Total Contract Value (TCV) is the estimated total contractual revenue related to signed contracts. Signings were as follows: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in billions) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Total Signings $ 1.5 $ 1.3 $ 5.3 $ 5.5 S ignings were an estimated $1.5 billion in TCV and increased 15% from third quarter 2015, primarily reflecting higher contribution from renewals offsetting lower new business signings. On a trailing twelve-month (TTM) basis, signings increased 8% compared to third quarter 2015. S ignings were an estimated $5.3 billion in TCV for the nine months ended September 30, 2016 and declined 4% from the prior-year period, primarily reflecting lower contribution from new business, due in part to our decision not to pursue opportunities with lower margin and return profiles, and the prior year large New York Medicaid Management Information System new business signing. Renewal Rate Renewal rate is defined as the annual recurring revenue (ARR) on contracts that are renewed during the period as a percentage of ARR on all contracts for which a renewal decision was made during the period. Renewal rate for the three months and nine months ended September 30, 2016 of 86% was within our target range of 85%-90%. Conduent Form 10-Q 36 Capital Resources and Liquidity As of September 30, 2016 and December 31, 2015 , total cash and cash equivalents were $148 million and $140 million, respectively. Cash Flow Analysis The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, as reported in our Condensed Combined Statement of Cash Flows in the accompanying Condensed Combined Financial Statements: Nine Months Ended September 30, Change (in millions) 2016 2015 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (38 ) $ 5 $ (43 ) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (129 ) 570 (699 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 177 (563 ) 740 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (2 ) (8 ) 6 Increase in cash and cash equivalents 8 4 4 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 140 159 (19 ) Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period $ 148 $ 163 $ (15 ) Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $38 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The $43 million decrease in operating cash from the prior year period was primarily due to the following: $17 million decrease in pre-tax income before depreciation and amortization, loss on sales of business, HE prior year charge, separation-related costs and restructuring and related charges . $115 million decrease reflecting settlement payments associated with our third quarter 2015 determination that we would not fully complete the HE implementations in California and Montana. $120 million decrease from accounts payable and accrued compensation primarily due to the timing of payments. $39 million decrease due to the prior year source of cash in the discontinued ITO business. $55 million decrease from accounts receivable due to timing of collections . $16 million decrease due to payments for separation-related costs. $24 million decrease due to higher restructuring payments as a result of increased restructuring initiatives in 2016 . $396 million increase from tax liabilities due to lower net income tax payments due to refunds of prior year overpayments. $14 million increase primarily from lower spending for product software from the refocusing of our Government Healthcare business in 2015. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $129 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The $699 million decrease in cash from prior year period was primarily due to the following: $992 million decrease in proceeds from sales of businesses. The first nine months of 2016 included a $52 million payment to Atos for final post-closing adjustments associated with the 2015 ITO divestiture. 2015 included $939 million of net proceeds from the sale of the ITO business . $34 million increase due to lower capital expenditures (including internal use software) . $194 million increase due to lower acquisitions . $67 million increase due to lower net payments on related party notes receivable. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $177 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2016. The $740 million increase in cash from the prior year period was primarily due to the following: $540 million increase due to net transfers from parent. $245 million increase primarily due to payment of $250 million on Senior Notes in 2015 . $42 million decrease due to net payments on related party notes payable . Sales of Accounts Receivable Refer to Note 5 - Accounts Receivable, Net in the Condensed Combined Financial Statements for additional information. Conduent Form 10-Q 37 Expected New Capitalization In connection with our separation capitalization plan, we expect to incur additional borrowings in order to redistribute debt between us and Xerox, such that we will have total principal debt of approximately $2,250 million immediately following the separation (approximately $2,200 million of new borrowings plus approximately $50 million of existing debt). We currently expect to effect this separation capitalization plan through a combination of secured term loans, under one or more new term loan facilities, and senior unsecured notes. In addition, we expect to enter into a new secured revolving credit facility, which is not expected to be drawn at the distribution date. The new borrowings are expected to have a weighted average interest costs of 5.75% and a term of 6 years. In addition, Xerox Corporation and Conduent entered into an Exchange Agreement with the holder of the Xerox Series A Preferred Stock to transfer 120,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock to Conduent, with a carrying value of $140 million and a dividend rate of 8%. We expect to have a starting cash balance of approximately $400 million after the completion of the separation capitalization plan. Market Risk Management We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, which could affect operating results, financial position and cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments. These derivative financial instruments are utilized to hedge economic exposures, as well as to reduce earnings and cash flow volatility resulting from shifts in market rates. We enter into limited types of derivative contracts, including interest rate swap agreements, foreign currency spot, forward and swap contracts and net purchased foreign currency options to manage interest rate and foreign currency exposures. Our primary foreign currency market exposures includes Euro and Pound Sterling. The fair market values of all our derivative contracts change with fluctuations in interest rates and/or currency rates and are designed so that any changes in their values are offset by changes in the values of the underlying exposures. Derivative financial instruments are held solely as risk management tools and not for trading or speculative purposes. We are required to recognize all derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities at fair value in the balance sheet. As permitted, certain of these derivative contracts have been designated for hedge accounting treatment. Certain of our derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are effective as economic hedges. These derivative contracts are likewise required to be recognized each period at fair value and therefore do result in some level of volatility. The level of volatility will vary with the type and amount of derivative hedges outstanding, as well as fluctuations in the currency and interest rate markets during the period. The related cash flow impacts of all of our derivative activities are reflected as cash flows from operating activities. By their nature, all derivative instruments involve, to varying degrees, elements of market and credit risk. The market risk associated with these instruments resulting from currency exchange and interest rate movements is expected to offset the market risk of the underlying transactions, assets and liabilities being hedged. We do not believe there is significant risk of loss in the event of non-performance by the counterparties associated with these instruments because these transactions are executed with a diversified group of major financial institutions. Further, our policy is to deal with counterparties having a minimum investment grade or better credit rating. Credit risk is managed through the continuous monitoring of exposures to such counterparties. The current market events have not required us to materially modify or change our financial risk management strategies with respect to our exposures to interest rate and foreign currency risk. Refer to Note 7 Financial Instruments, in the Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion and information on our financial risk management strategies. Conduent Form 10-Q 38 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We have reported our financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, we have discussed our results using non-GAAP measures. Management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional means of analyzing the current periods results against the corresponding prior periods results. However, these non-GAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the Companys reported results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for comparable U.S. GAAP measures and should be read only in conjunction with our Condensed Combined Financial Statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Our management regularly uses our supplemental non-GAAP financial measures internally to understand, manage and evaluate our business and make operating decisions. These non-GAAP measures are among the primary factors management uses in planning for and forecasting future periods. Compensation of our executives is based in part on the performance of our business based on these non-GAAP measures. A reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures and the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP are set forth on the following tables. These reconciliations also include the income tax effects for our non-GAAP performance measures in total, to the extent applicable. The income tax effects are calculated under the same accounting principles as applied to our reported pre-tax performance measures under ASC 740, which employs an annual effective tax rate method. The noted income tax effect for our non-GAAP performance measures is effectively the difference in income taxes for reported and adjusted pre-tax income calculated under the annual effective tax rate method. Adjusted Earnings Measures We adjust the following earnings measures: Net income Effective tax rate In the three and nine months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, we adjusted for the amortization of intangible assets. The amortization of intangible assets is driven by our acquisition activity, which can vary in size, nature and timing as compared to other companies within our industry and from period to period. The use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of intangible assets will recur in future periods. In 2016, we revised our calculation of the above noted Adjusted Earnings Measures to exclude the following items in addition to the amortization of intangibles: Restructuring and related costs Separation costs Restructuring and related costs : Restructuring and related costs include restructuring and asset impairment charges as well as costs associated with our Strategic Transformation program beyond those normally included in restructuring and asset impairment charges. Restructuring consists of costs primarily related to severance and benefits paid to employees pursuant to formal restructuring and workforce reduction plans. Asset impairment includes costs incurred for those assets sold, abandoned or made obsolete as a result of our restructuring actions, exiting from a business or other strategic business changes. Additional costs for our Strategic Transformation program are primarily related to the implementation of strategic actions and initiatives and include third-party professional service costs as well as one-time incremental costs. All of these costs can vary significantly in terms of amount and frequency based on the nature of the actions as well as the changing needs of the business. Accordingly, due to that significant variability, we exclude these charges since we do not believe they provide meaningful insight into our current or past operating performance nor do we believe they are reflective of our expected future operating expenses as such charges are expected to yield future benefits and savings with respect to our operational performance. Separation costs : Separation costs are expenses incurred in connection with Xeroxs planned separation into two independent, publicly traded companies. Separation costs are primarily for third-party investment banking, Conduent Form 10-Q 39 accounting, legal, consulting and other similar types of services related to the separation transaction as well as costs associated with the operational separation of the two companies, such as those related to human resources, brand management, real estate and information management to the extent not capitalized. Separation costs include the costs associated with bonuses and restricted stock grants awarded to employees for retention through the separation as well as incremental income tax expense related to the reorganization of legal entities and operations in order to effect the legal separation from Xerox. These costs are incremental to normal operating charges and are being incurred solely as a result of the separation transaction. Accordingly, we exclude these expenses from our Adjusted Earnings Measures in order to evaluate our performance on a comparable basis. The prior year amounts were revised accordingly to reflect these changes. Adjusted Revenue, Costs and Expenses and Margin In 2015, in addition to the above noted Adjusted Earnings Measures, we adjusted revenue, costs and expenses and margin. As previously discussed, during third quarter 2015, we recorded a pre-tax HE charge of $389 million ($237 million after- tax), which included a $116 million reduction to revenues. See Financial Review - 2015 Health Enterprise (HE) Charges for additional information. As a result of the significant impact of the HE charge on our reported revenues, costs and expenses as well as key metrics for the period, we discussed our 2015 results using non-GAAP measures that excluded the impact of the HE charge. In addition to the magnitude of the charge and its impact on our reported results, we excluded the HE charge due to the fact that it was primarily a unique charge associated with the determination, reached after a series of discussions, that fully completing our HE platform implementations in California and Montana was no longer considered probable. Net Income and Effective Tax Rate In addition to the exclusion of the HE charge, in 2015 the above noted Adjusted Earnings Measures (Net Income and Effective Tax Rate) were also adjusted for the following item: Software impairment charge : The pre-tax software impairment charge in the second quarter of 2015 of $146 million ($89 million after-tax) is excluded due to its non-cash impact and the unique nature of the item both in terms of the amount and the fact that it was the result of a specific management action involving a change in strategy in our Government Healthcare business. See - Financial Review - 2015 Health Enterprise (HE) Charges for additional information. Operating Income and Margin We also calculate and utilize operating income and margin earnings measures by adjusting our pre-tax income and margin amounts to exclude certain items. In addition to the exclusion of the HE charge as well as the amortization of intangible assets, Restructuring and related costs and Separation costs discussed above, operating income and margin also excludes Related Party interest and Other expenses, net. Related Party interest includes net interest cost associated with our Related Party borrowings. Other expenses, net includes third-party interest expense and also includes certain other non-operating costs and expenses. We exclude these amounts in order to evaluate our current and past operating performance and to better understand the expected future trends in our business. Constant Currency Refer to Currency Impact for a discussion of this measure and its use in our analysis of revenue growth. Conduent Form 10-Q 40 Net Income (Loss) Reconciliation: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, (in millions) 2016 2015 2016 2015 Reported (1) $ 1 $ (236 ) $ (32 ) $ (345 ) Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 63 62 200 187 Restructuring and related costs 8 9 57 160 HE Charge 389 389 Separation costs 15 34 Income tax adjustments (2) (34 ) (179 ) (100 ) (286 ) Adjusted $ 53 $ 45 $ 159 $ 105 ____________________________ (1) Net Income (loss) from continuing operations. (2) Refer to Effective Tax Rate reconciliation. Effective Tax Rate Reconciliation: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 (in millions) Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (3) Effective Tax Rate Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (3) Effective Tax Rate Reported (1) $ 2 $ 1 50.0 % $ (390 ) $ (154 ) 39.5 % Non-GAAP Adjustments (2) 86 34 460 179 Adjusted $ 88 $ 35 39.8 % $ 70 $ 25 35.7 % Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 (in millions) Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (3) Effective Tax Rate Pre-Tax Income (Loss) Income Tax Expense (Benefit) (3) Effective Tax Rate Reported (1) $ (86 ) $ (54 ) 62.8 % $ (582 ) $ (237 ) 40.7 % Non-GAAP Adjustments (2) 291 100 736 286 Adjusted $ 205 $ 46 22.4 % $ 154 $ 49 31.8 % ____________________________ (1) Pre-Tax Income (Loss) and Income Tax Benefit from continuing operations. (2) Refer to Net Income (Loss) reconciliation for details. (3) The tax impact of Adjusted Pre-Tax Income (Loss) from continuing operations is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the As Reported Pre-Tax Income under ASC 740, which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. Operating Income / Margin Reconciliation: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 (in millions) Profit (Loss) Revenue Margin Profit (Loss) Revenue Margin Reported Pre-tax Income (Loss) (1) $ 2 $ 1,596 0.1 % $ (390 ) $ 1,571 (24.8 )% Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 63 62 Restructuring and related costs 8 9 Separation costs 15 Related party interest 10 14 HE charge 389 116 Other expenses, net (1 ) 12 Adjusted Operating Income/Margin $ 97 $ 1,596 6.1 % $ 96 $ 1,687 5.7 % Conduent Form 10-Q 41 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2016 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 (in millions) Profit (Loss) Revenue Margin Profit (Loss) Revenue Margin Reported Pre-tax Loss (1) $ (86 ) $ 4,894 (1.8 )% $ (582 ) $ 4,932 (11.8 )% Adjustments: Amortization of intangible assets 200 187 Restructuring and related costs 57 160 Business transformation costs 3 Separation costs 34 Related party interest 30 50 HE charge 389 116 Other expenses, net 10 22 Adjusted Operating Income/Margin $ 245 $ 4,894 5.0 % $ 229 $ 5,048 4.5 % ____________________________ (1) Pre-Tax Income (Loss) and revenue from continuing operations. Revenue Reconciliation (2015 only): Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 (in millions) Revenue Segment (Loss) Segment Margin Revenue Segment (Loss) Segment Margin Reported (1) $ 1,571 $ (293 ) (18.7 )% $ 4,932 $ (160 ) (3.2 )% HE charge 116 389 116 389 Adjusted $ 1,687 $ 96 5.7 % $ 5,048 $ 229 4.5 % (1) Pre-Tax Loss and Income Tax Benefit from continuing operations. Other Segment Revenue Reconciliation (2015 only): Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 (in millions) Reported HE Charge Adjusted Reported HE Charge Adjusted Other Segment Revenue $ $ 116 $ 116 $ 195 $ 116 $ 311 Other Segment (Loss) (390 ) 389 (1 ) (469 ) 389 (80 ) Other Segment Margin N/A (0.9 )% N/A (25.7 )% Key Financial Ratios Reconciliation (2015 only): Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Gross Margin R&D % of Revenue SAG % of Revenue Gross Margin R&D % of Revenue SAG % of Revenue Reported (1) (7.1 )% 0.8 % 10.8 % 8.1 % 0.8 % 10.6 % HE charge 23.6 % (0.1 )% (0.7 )% 7.5 % % (0.3 )% Adjusted 16.5 % 0.7 % 10.1 % 15.6 % 0.8 % 10.3 % ____________________________ (1) Pre-Tax Loss and Income Tax Benefit from continuing operations.