ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on February 24, 2022 (the Annual Report) . This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to we, us, our, our company, and Confluent refer to Confluent, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our common stock include our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. Overview Confluent is on a mission to set data in motion. We were founded in 2014 to pioneer this fundamentally new category of data infrastructure designed to connect all the applications, systems, and data layers of a company around a real-time central nervous system. This new data infrastructure software has emerged as one of the most strategic parts of the next-generation technology stack, and using this stack to harness data in motion is critical to the success of every modern company as they strive to compete and win in the digital-first world. Prior to Confluent, our founders created the open source software project Apache Kafka, a technology that has been central to enabling data in motion. Since our founding, we have heavily invested in product development to build a complete, cloud-native platform for data in motion. Confluent is designed to act as the nexus of real-time data, from every source, allowing it to stream across the organization and enabling applications to harness it to power real-time customer experiences and data-driven business operations. Our offering enables organizations to deploy production-ready applications that span across cloud environments and data centers, while scaling elastically with enhanced features for security, compliance, and governance. Our platform provides the capabilities to fill the structural, operational, and engineering gaps required for businesses to fully realize the power of data in motion. We enable software developers to easily build their initial applications to harness data in motion, and enable large, complex enterprises to make data in motion core to everything they do. As organizations mature in their adoption cycle, we enable them to quickly, securely, and reliably build more and more applications that take advantage of data in motion. The results have a dual effect: businesses continuously improve their ability to provide better customer experiences and concurrently drive data-driven business operations. We believe that Confluent, over time, will become the central nervous system for modern digital enterprises, providing ubiquitous real-time connectivity and powering real-time applications across the enterprise. We generate our revenue primarily from the sale of subscriptions to our offering that can be deployed in two different ways. Confluent Platform is an enterprise-ready, self-managed software offering that can be deployed in our customers on-premise, private cloud, and public cloud environments. Confluent Cloud is a fully-managed, cloud-native software-as-a-service (SaaS) offering available on all of the leading cloud providers. These two core offerings can be leveraged independently or together, spanning the various public cloud, private cloud, and on-premise environments in which our customers operate. 23 Table of Contents Confluent Platform customers receive access to our proprietary features and various tiers of customer support. Our Confluent Platform subscriptions primarily have one-year terms and are generally billed annually in advance. Confluent Cloud customers may purchase subscriptions either without a minimum commitment contract on a month-to-month basis, which we refer to as pay-as-you-go, or under a usage-based minimum commitment contract of at least one year in duration, in which customers commit to a fixed minimum monetary amount at specified per-usage rates. Pay-as-you-go customers are billed, and revenue from them is recognized, based on usage. Customers with usage-based minimum commitments are billed annually in advance or monthly in arrears, and we recognize revenue from such subscriptions based on usage by the customer. As a result, our revenue may fluctuate from period to period due to varying patterns of customer consumption. We are focused on the acquisition of new customers and expanding within our current customers. Our go-to-market model benefits from our self-service motions driven by our cloud-native platform offerings, our widespread mindshare among developers through Apache Kafka, community downloads, and our enterprise sales force. We are able to acquire new customers through seamless and frictionless self-service cloud adoption and free cloud trials, as well as community downloads. For example, after users get started with our free cloud trial, they can easily convert online to become paying customers either on a pay-as-you-go model or with a minimum commitment contract. Once customers see the benefits of our platform for their initial use cases, they often expand into other use cases and lines of business, divisions, and geographies. Our deep technical expertise, coupled with our product capabilities and laser focus on customer outcomes, enable us to form strategic partnerships with our customers to guide and accelerate this journey. This expansion often generates a natural network effect in which the value of our platform to a customer increases as more use cases are adopted, more users and teams are onboarded, more applications and systems are connected, and more data is added. We had approximately 4,120 customers and 2,540 customers as of March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 62%. We have experienced significant growth, with revenue of $126.1 million and $77.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 64%. Impact of COVID-19 The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has caused general business disruption worldwide. The full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic, including any new variants, will directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition remains uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. Since the pandemic began, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in future periods, an adverse impact on certain parts of our business as a result of governmental restrictions and other measures to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including delays in delivery of professional services and education services to customers and a lengthening in the sales cycle for some prospective customers. If our customers or partners experience new or continued downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations or revenue resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, they may decrease or delay their spending, request pricing discounts, or seek renegotiations of their contracts, any of which may result in decreased revenue, dollar-based net retention rate (NRR), and cash receipts for us. Despite the adverse impacts described above, the pandemic has caused more of our existing and potential customers to accelerate their digital transformation efforts. As a result, we believe the value of our offering is becoming even more evident, which may result in a positive impact on our business over the long term. We adopted several measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to focus on maintaining business continuity and preparing for the long-term success of our business, including temporarily requiring employees to work remotely, suspending non-essential travel by our employees, requiring events to be held virtually, and temporarily reducing the pace of our employee hiring across all functions in the second and third quarters of 2020. In particular, the reduction in employee hiring for our sales and marketing organization has negatively impacted our near- to medium-term growth rate and revenue. While slower growth in certain operating expenses due to reduced business travel and the virtualization or cancellation of customer, partner, and employee events had a short-term benefit to our results of operations during 2020 and 2021, we experienced an increase in expenses related to travel, in-person events, real estate and facilities during the three months ended March 31, 2022, and expect to continue to see growth in these expenses during the remainder of 2022 assuming continued easing of restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 24 Table of Contents The global impact of COVID-19 continues to evolve, and while the broader implications of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic remain uncertain, we will continue to monitor the situation and adjust our policies as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our business, employees, customers, and business partners. We will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact of COVID-19 on our business and operations. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Developing Innovative, Market-Leading Offerings and Expanding Developer Mindshare We are focused on delivering market-leading offerings. We believe it is critical for us to maintain our product leadership position and further increase the strength of our brand and reputation to drive revenue growth. We developed Confluent Cloud, our cloud-native SaaS offering, in 2017 to capitalize on the existing demand for a fully-managed cloud service for Apache Kafka. Confluent Cloud has grown rapidly since launch, as organizations have been making significant investments in digital infrastructure with the goal of both driving efficiencies across their businesses, and better leveraging the data that powers their processes and customer experiences. In addition, we continue to release new product enhancements and features to simplify application development and real-time analytics and enhance security and data governance. We intend to continue investing in our engineering capabilities and marketing activities to maintain our strong position within the developer community. Our results of operations may fluctuate as we make these investments to drive increased customer adoption and usage. Increasing Adoption of Confluent Cloud We believe our cloud-native Confluent Cloud offering represents an important growth opportunity for our business. Organizations are increasingly looking for a fully-managed offering to seamlessly leverage data in motion across a variety of environments. In some cases, customers that have been self-managing deployments through Confluent Platform subsequently have become Confluent Cloud customers. We offer customers a free cloud trial and a pay-as-you-go arrangement to encourage adoption and usage over time. We will continue to leverage our cloud-native differentiation to drive our growth. We expect Confluent Clouds contribution to our subscription revenue to increase over time. Our Confluent Cloud revenue increased from $13.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 to $38.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, representing year-over-year growth of 180%. As we recognize revenue from Confluent Cloud based on usage, our revenue and results of operations may fluctuate from period to period due to varying patterns of customer consumption and adoption trends. Growing Our Customer Base and Extending Our Global Reach We are intensely focused on continuing to grow our customer base. We have invested and will continue to invest in our sales and marketing efforts and developer community outreach, which are critical to driving customer acquisition. We historically focused on large enterprise customers with significant expansion opportunities and built a go-to-market motion around this approach. As we grew our cloud offering and created more self-serve opportunities, we have significantly broadened our reach of customers and are able to attract a greater array of customers. This is evidenced by our significant increase in customer count in recent years, driven by Confluent Cloud customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a number of factors, including our success in recruiting and scaling our sales and marketing organization, our ability to accelerate ramp time of our sales force, the impact of marketing efforts to enhance our brand, and competitive dynamics in our target markets. We had approximately 4,120 customers and 2,540 customers as of March 31, 2022 and March 31, 2021, respectively, spanning organizations of all sizes and industries. Our customer count treats affiliated entities with the same parent organization as a single customer and includes pay-as-you-go customers. During the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, 37% and 36% of our total revenue came from outside of the United States, respectively. 25 Table of Contents Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers Our business model is driven by customer renewals and increasing existing customer subscriptions over time, referred to as land-and-expand. We believe we have significant opportunities to increase our revenue as customers expand their use of our offering in connection with migrating more data to the public cloud, identifying new use cases, and realizing the benefits of data in motion. Our ability to retain and expand revenue from existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including the impact of existing customers becoming a larger portion of our overall customer base, large initial deal sizes that incorporate potential growth, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the initial impact of existing customers transitioning to our usage-based Confluent Cloud offering, customer satisfaction with our subscriptions and services, loss of large customers including the timing of any such loss, and the mix of commercial and enterprise customers, among other things. Investing in Growth and Scaling our Business We believe our market opportunity is significant, and we are focused on continuing to make substantial investments in our long-term revenue and profitability potential. We believe it is critical to scale across all organizational functions, including our sales and marketing organization, in order to capture this opportunity. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization will occur in advance of experiencing the benefits from such investments, and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are efficiently allocating resources within the organization. We intend to continue to invest to grow our business to take advantage of our expansive market opportunity rather than optimize for profitability, margins, or cash flow in the near future. Key Business Metrics We monitor the key business metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions. The calculation of the key metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO) RPO represents the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized as of the end of each period, including both deferred revenue that has been invoiced and non-cancelable committed amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. RPO excludes pay-as-you-go arrangements. RPO as a metric is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth because it does not account for the actual timing of customers consumption or future expansion. RPO may also fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the timing of renewals, average contract terms, seasonality, and dollar amount of customer contracts. Due to these factors, it is important to review RPO in conjunction with revenue and other financial measures disclosed elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our RPO was $551.1 million and $280.9 million as of March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Customers with $100,000 or Greater in Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) We define ARR as the revenue customers contractually committed to over the following 12 months assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions. ARR excludes services and pay-as-you-go arrangements. Similar to RPO, ARR as a metric is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth because it does not account for the actual timing of customers consumption or future expansion. Large customer relationships lead to scale and operating leverage in our business model. Compared with smaller customers, large customers present a greater opportunity for us because they have larger budgets, greater potential for migrating more applications over time, and a wider range of potential use cases for data in motion. As a measure of our ability to scale with our customers and attract large enterprises to our offering, we count the number of customers that contributed $100,000 or greater in ARR as of period end. Our customer count may also fluctuate due to acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. We had 791 and 561 customers with $100,000 or greater in ARR as of March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 26 Table of Contents From time to time, we may refine our methodology of calculating ARR. We have included, and continue to include, annualized overages in our calculation of ARR. Customers are contractually committed to pay overages plus the minimum contractually committed amount. Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, we refined our methodology of calculating ARR to only include overages above the contractually committed ARR, to align with how our management assesses ARR internally. This change in methodology had an immaterial impact to historical amounts presented, which have not been retroactively adjusted. Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate (NRR) We calculate our dollar-based NRR as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end, or Prior Period Value. We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end, or Current Period Value, which includes any growth in the value of subscriptions and is net of contraction or attrition over the prior 12 months. Services and pay-as-you-go arrangements are excluded from the calculation of ARR. We then divide the Current Period Value by the Prior Period Value to arrive at our dollar-based NRR. The dollar-based NRR includes the effect, on a dollar-weighted value basis, of our subscriptions that expand, renew, contract, or attrit, but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. Our dollar-based NRR is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. We believe that our dollar-based NRR provides useful information about the evolution of our existing customers and our future growth prospects. Our dollar-based NRR was over 130% as of March 31, 2022, demonstrating our ability to expand within existing customers. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, services. Subscription Revenue . Our subscription revenue consists of revenue from term-based licenses and post-contract customer support, maintenance, and upgrades, referred to together as PCS, which we refer to as Confluent Platform, and our SaaS offering, which we refer to as Confluent Cloud. We recognize a portion of the revenue from our term-based license subscriptions at a point in time, upon delivery and transfer of control of the underlying license to the customer, which is typically the effective start date. Revenue from PCS, which represents a substantial majority of the revenue from our term-based license subscriptions, is recognized ratably over the contract term. The substantial majority of our revenue from Confluent Cloud for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was based on usage-based minimum commitments and is recognized on a usage basis, as usage represents a direct measurement of the value to the customer of the subscription transferred as of a particular date relative to the total value to be delivered over the term of the contract. Our subscriptions primarily have one-year terms, and are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable. We also provide pay-as-you-go arrangements, which consist of month-to-month SaaS contracts. These arrangements have historically represented an immaterial portion of our subscription revenue. Services Revenue . Services revenue consists of revenue from professional services and education services, which are generally sold on a time-and-materials basis. Revenue for professional services and education services is recognized as these services are delivered. We expect our total revenue may vary from period to period based on, among other things, the timing and size of new subscriptions, the rate of customer renewals and expansions, fluctuations in customer consumption of and adoption trends for our usage-based offering, delivery of professional services, ramp time and productivity of our salesforce, the impact of significant transactions, and seasonality. 27 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Cost of Subscription Revenue . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for employees associated with customer support and maintenance, third-party cloud infrastructure costs, amortization of internal-use software, and allocated overhead costs for information technology, facilities, and recruiting. We expect our cost of subscription revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our subscription revenue increases. Cost of Services Revenue . Cost of services revenue primarily includes personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for employees associated with our professional services and education services, costs of third-party contractors, and allocated overhead. We expect our cost of services revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our services revenue increases. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross Profit . Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross Margin . Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the average sales price of our subscriptions and services, changes in our revenue mix, including the mix of revenue between our Confluent Platform, Confluent Cloud, and service offerings, timing and amount of usage of third-party cloud infrastructure resources, and infrastructure optimization. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, net of capitalized amounts, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our research and development organization, contractor and professional services fees, and allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows and we continue to invest in our offering. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, which consist of sales commissions and the associated payroll taxes, conferences, costs related to marketing programs, travel-related costs, and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, and brand-building and developer-community activities. We expect our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars over time and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales force, increase our marketing resources, and expand into new markets. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation for administrative functions including finance, human resources, and legal, professional fees, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our general and administrative functions, and allocated overhead. We expect our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars over time as we continue to invest in the growth of our business and incur costs associated with being a publicly traded company. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash equivalents and marketable securities. 28 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on marketable securities, interest expense from amortization of debt issuance costs, gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, and realized gains and losses on marketable securities. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 113,920 $ 67,992 Services 12,219 9,036 Total revenue 126,139 77,028 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1)(2) 33,603 15,757 Services (1)(2) 12,174 8,081 Total cost of revenue 45,777 23,838 Gross profit 80,362 53,190 Operating expenses: Research and development (1)(2) 57,661 24,313 Sales and marketing (1)(2) 106,702 58,509 General and administrative (1)(2) 27,481 15,512 Total operating expenses 191,844 98,334 Operating loss (111,482 ) (45,144 ) Interest income 566 844 Other expense, net (1,382 ) (336 ) Loss before income taxes (112,298 ) (44,636 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 689 (110 ) Net loss $ (112,987 ) $ (44,526 ) __________________________________________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 5,313 $ 975 Cost of revenue - services 1,862 544 Research and development 20,085 3,511 Sales and marketing 21,062 4,976 General and administrative 9,047 3,347 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 57,369 $ 13,353 29 Table of Contents (2) Includes employer taxes on employee stock transactions as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 333 $ - Cost of revenue - services 77 - Research and development 1,039 121 Sales and marketing 680 103 General and administrative 310 39 Total employer taxes on employee stock transactions $ 2,439 $ 263 The following table sets forth our condensed consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue: Subscription 90 % 88 % Services 10 12 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Subscription 27 21 Services 10 10 Total cost of revenue 36 31 Gross profit 64 69 Operating expenses: Research and development 46 32 Sales and marketing 85 76 General and administrative 22 20 Total operating expenses 152 128 Operating loss (88 ) (59 ) Interest income 0 1 Other expense, net (1 ) 0 Loss before income taxes (89 ) (58 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1 0 Net loss (90 )% (58 )% __________________________________________________ Note: Certain figures may not sum due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Subscription $ 113,920 $ 67,992 $ 45,928 68% Services 12,219 9,036 3,183 35% Total revenue $ 126,139 $ 77,028 $ 49,111 64% 30 Table of Contents Subscription revenue increased by $45.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in revenue was primarily from sales to existing customers and the remaining increase was attributable to sales to new customers. Sales to new customers represent the revenue recognized from customers acquired in the 12 months prior to March 31, 2022. A further indication of our ability to expand from existing customers is through our dollar-based net retention rate of over 130% as of March 31, 2022. Confluent Platform and Confluent Cloud contributed 66% and 34% of our subscription revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2022, respectively, compared to 80% and 20% during the three months ended March 31, 2021, respectively. Services revenue increased by $3.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in delivery of professional services. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue Subscription $ 33,603 $ 15,757 $ 17,846 113% Services 12,174 8,081 4,093 51% Total cost of revenue $ 45,777 $ 23,838 $ 21,939 92% Gross profit $ 80,362 $ 53,190 $ 27,172 51% Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Gross margin Subscription 71% 77% Services 0% 11% Total gross margin 64% 69% Cost of subscription revenue increased by $17.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $9.6 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount, and an increase of $6.4 million in third-party cloud infrastructure costs. The increase in personnel-related costs included an increase of $4.3 million in stock-based compensation expense. Cost of services revenue increased by $4.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $3.4 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount, and an increase of $0.4 million in third- party contractors who supplemented our services delivery team . The increase in personnel-related costs included an increase of $1.3 million in stock-based compensation expense. Our subscription gross margin decreased primarily due to higher personnel-related costs, including higher stock-based compensation expense, and the change in our revenue mix, partially offset by economies of scale resulting from increased efficiency and optimization of our infrastructure. Our services gross margin decreased primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense and higher third-party contractor expense. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 57,661 $ 24,313 $ 33,348 137% Percentage of revenue 46% 32% 31 Table of Contents Research and development expenses increased by $33.3 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $29.4 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount , and an increase of $2.4 million in third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform . The increase in personnel-related costs included an increase of $16.6 million in stock-based compensation expense. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 106,702 $ 58,509 $ 48,193 82% Percentage of revenue 85% 76% Sales and marketing expenses increased by $48.2 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $34.9 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount , an increase of $6.6 million in conference expenses and associated travel-related costs, an increase of $2.9 million in amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, and an increase of $1.2 million in advertising costs and marketing programs. The increase in personnel-related costs included an increase of $16.1 million in stock-based compensation expense. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 27,481 $ 15,512 $ 11,969 77% Percentage of revenue 22% 20% General and administrative expenses increased by $12.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $9.4 million in personnel-related costs and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount and an increase of $2.2 million in professional services fees and other expenses to operate as a public company . The increase in personnel-related costs included an increase of $5.7 million in stock-based compensation expense. Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 566 $ 844 $ (278 ) (33)% The change in interest income during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 was not material. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Other expense, net $ (1,382 ) $ (336 ) $ (1,046 ) 311% Other expense, net increased by $1.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily due to interest expense from amortization of debt issuance costs. 32 Table of Contents Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2022 2021 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Loss before income taxes $ (112,298 ) $ (44,636 ) $ (67,662 ) (152)% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 689 (110 ) 799 726% Effective tax rate (0.6)% 0.2% The provision for income taxes during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily driven by a valuation allowance on U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets and foreign and state income taxes. The Companys benefit from income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily driven by a benefit for stock-based compensation windfalls, partially offset by a valuation allowance on U.S. deferred tax assets and foreign and state income taxes. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets. The most significant component of our tax expense is income taxes in various foreign jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate may fluctuate to the extent earnings are lower in countries that have lower statutory rates or higher in countries that have higher statutory rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, we have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from issuances of equity and debt securities and payments received from our customers. In June 2021, our initial public offering resulted in proceeds of $786.6 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. In December 2021, we issued $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes) in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2027 Notes, after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and commissions and debt issuance costs, were $1,080.5 million. As of March 31, 2022, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $1,990.6 million. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of bank deposits, U.S. treasury securities, money market funds, and commercial paper. Our marketable securities consist of corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, U.S. agency obligations, and U.S. treasury securities. We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our short-term and long-term operating and capital needs, including our purchase obligations primarily related to our non-cancelable agreements for third-party cloud infrastructure, and operating lease commitments, net of sublease receipts, primarily related to our office space. We have generated significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of March 31, 2022, we had an accumulated deficit of $861.8 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operations, and the continuing market acceptance of our subscriptions and services. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (55,031 ) $ (19,989 ) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (311,734 ) $ 13,845 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 38,468 $ 13,460 Cash Flows from Operating Activities We generally invoice our customers annually in advance for our term-based licenses and either annually in advance or monthly in arrears for our SaaS offering. Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. We have in the past and expect in the future to experience seasonality, with the fourth quarter historically being our strongest quarter for new customer sales, renewals, and expansion as a result of large enterprise buying patterns. Accordingly, the operating cash flow benefit from increased collections from our customers generally occurs in the subsequent one to two quarters after billing. We expect seasonality, timing of billings, and collections from our customers to have a material impact on our cash flow from operating activities from period to period. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure costs, sales and marketing expenses, and overhead expenses. Cash used in operating activities of $55.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 primarily consisted of our net loss of $113.0 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $71.2 million , and net cash outflows of $13.2 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges included $57.4 million of stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts capitalized, $8.5 million of amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, and $2.3 million of non-cash operating lease costs. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $22.9 million decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities primarily due to the timing of bonus payments and purchases under our employee stock purchase plan, a $12.1 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs due to our increased sales, an $8.0 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily driven by prepaid third-party cloud infrastructure, partially offset by a $19.2 million increase in deferred revenue corresponding with our increased sales and a $12.8 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of billings and collections. Cash used in operating activities of $20.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily consisted of our net loss of $44.5 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $22.9 million and net cash inflows of $1.6 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges included $13.4 million of stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts capitalized, $5.5 million of amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, and $2.9 million of non-cash operating lease costs. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $9.6 million increase in deferred revenue corresponding with our increased sales and a $5.7 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of billings and collections, particularly from our strong sales in the fourth quarter of 2020, partially offset by a $10.9 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs due to our increased sales and a $2.7 million decrease in operating lease liabilities due to payments related to our operating lease obligations. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities of $311.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to purchases of marketable securities of $403.9 million and capitalized internal-use software development costs of $2.5 million , partially offset by maturities of marketable securities of $95.5 million . Cash provided by investing activities of $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily due to maturities of marketable securities of $56.8 million, offset by purchases of marketable securities of $41.7 million, purchases of property and equipment of $0.6 million, and capitalized internal-use software development costs of $0.6 million. 34 Table of Contents Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities of $38.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to $22.5 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock under our employee stock purchase plan, and $16.8 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercises of stock options, net of repurchases. Cash provided by financing activities of $13.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was due to $13.6 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercises of stock options, net of repurchases, offset by payments of deferred offering costs of $0.2 million. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Jumpstart Our Business Startups ( JOBS ) Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 35 Table of Contents