Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Business Metrics for a description of ARR. Sales to enterprise customers and large organizations involve risks that may not be present or that are present to a lesser extent with sales to smaller customers, including the commercial customer segment. These risks include longer sales cycles, more complex customer requirements, substantial upfront sales costs and less predictability in completing some of our sales. For example, enterprise customers may require considerable time to evaluate and test our offering and those of our competitors prior to making a purchase decision and placing an order. A number of factors influence the length and variability of our sales cycle, including the need to educate potential customers about the uses and benefits of our offering, the discretionary nature of purchasing and budget cycles, the COVID-19 pandemic, heightened information security and privacy requirements, and the competitive nature of evaluation and purchasing approval processes. Since the process for deployment, configuration and management of our offering is complex, we are also often required to invest significant time and other resources to train and familiarize potential customers with our offering. Customers may engage in extensive evaluation, testing, and quality assurance work before making a purchase commitment, which increases our upfront investment in sales, marketing, and deployment efforts, with no guarantee that these customers will make a purchase or increase the scope of their subscriptions. In certain circumstances, an enterprise customers decision to use our offering may be an organization-wide decision, and therefore, these types of sales require us to provide greater levels of education regarding the use and benefits of our offering. As a result, the length of our sales cycle, from identification of the opportunity to deal closure, has varied, and may continue to vary, significantly from customer to customer, with sales to large enterprises and organizations typically taking longer to complete. Moreover, large enterprise customers often begin to deploy our offering on a limited basis but nevertheless demand configuration, integration services, and pricing negotiations, which increase our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that these customers will deploy our offering widely enough across their organization to justify our substantial upfront investment. Given these factors, it is difficult to predict whether and when a sale will be completed and when revenue from a sale will be recognized due to the variety of ways in which customers may purchase our offering. This may result in lower than expected revenue in any given period, which would have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate, and even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate, including due to the risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. The variables that go into the calculation of our market opportunity are subject to change over time, and there is no guarantee that any particular number or percentage of addressable users or companies covered by our market opportunity estimates will purchase our offering at all or generate any particular level of revenue for us. Any expansion in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our platform for data in motion and those of our competitors. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and growth forecasts, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Our growth is subject to many factors, including our success in implementing our business strategy, which is subject to many risks and uncertainties. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Customers If we are unable to attract new customers or expand our potential customer and sales pipeline, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. To increase our revenue, we must continue to generate market acceptance of our brand and attract new customers and expand our potential customer and sales pipeline. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the widespread adoption of our offering as an alternative to competing solutions, including open source alternatives. In addition, as our market matures, our offering evolves, and competitors introduce lower cost or differentiated products that compete with our offering, our ability to sell our offering could be impaired. Similarly, our sales efforts could be adversely impacted if customers or users within these organizations perceive that features incorporated into competitive products reduce the need for our offering or if they prefer to purchase competing products that are bundled together with other types of products, such as data infrastructure platforms offered by public cloud providers. Our existing sales and marketing strategies for new customer acquisition may also be unsuccessful. For example, we offer free, limited evaluation and developer usage of Confluent Platform and free introductory usage of Confluent Cloud to encourage awareness, usage, familiarity, and adoption, and a pay-as-you-go arrangement for Confluent Cloud without minimum usage commitments. If we are unable to successfully convert these free users into paying customers, or convert pay-as-you-go customers into customers with usage-based minimum commitments, we will not realize the intended benefits of this marketing and adoption strategy. As a result of these and other factors, we may be unable to attract new customers or expand our potential customer and sales pipeline, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business depends on our existing customers renewing their subscriptions and usage-based minimum commitments, purchasing additional subscriptions and usage-based minimum commitments, and expanding their use of our offering. Our future success depends in part on our ability to expand our customers use of our offering into additional use cases, our customers renewing their subscriptions and usage-based minimum commitments, and our ability to develop our offering for additional use cases and applications. The terms of our subscriptions and usage-based minimum commitments are primarily one year in duration. Our customers have no obligation to renew after the expiration of the applicable term. In order for us to maintain or improve our results of operations, it is important that our customers enter into relationships with us that increase in value over time, and renew and expand their subscriptions with us, including through the use of our offering for additional use cases and applications. Although we seek to increase our revenue through expanded use of our offering by customers in additional use cases, we may not be successful in such efforts. Our dollar-based net retention rate has historically declined or fluctuated, and may further decline or fluctuate, as a result of a number of factors, including loss of one or more customers, the timing and size of any such losses, business strength or weakness of our customers, customer usage of our offering, customer satisfaction with the capabilities of our offering and our level of customer support, our prices, the capabilities and prices of competing products, decisions by customers to use open source alternatives, mergers and acquisitions affecting our customer base, the effects of global economic conditions, or reductions in our customers spending on IT solutions or their spending levels generally. In addition, as some customers transition from Confluent Platform to Confluent Cloud, our dollar-based net retention rate may decline or fluctuate, at least in the short term, as those customers replace subscriptions to Confluent Platform with usage-based minimum commitments. Historically, some of our customers have elected not to renew their subscriptions with us for a variety of reasons, including as a result of competing products, internally developed or managed solutions, including those based on Apache Kafka or other open source alternatives, and global economic conditions. These factors may also be exacerbated if our customer base of larger enterprises continues to grow, which may require increasingly sophisticated and costly sales efforts, and if large enterprises further develop internal capabilities. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions and/or usage-based minimum commitments, expand their use of our offering, and purchase additional products from us, our revenue may decline and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be harmed. 40 Table of Contents If we or any of our partners fail to offer high-quality support, our reputation could suffer. Our customers rely on our or our channel partners support personnel to resolve issues and realize the full benefits that our offering provides. High-quality support is also important for the continuation and expansion of our relationships with existing customers. The importance of these support functions will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. In certain cases when we provide our offering for sale by channel partners as part of their value-added offerings, our partners may be responsible for providing support and support personnel for our customers. We often have limited to no control or visibility in such cases. If we or such partners do not help our customers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to maintain and expand our sales to existing and new customers could suffer, and our reputation with existing or potential customers could suffer. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or a failure to renew our agreements with one or more of our key customers, could negatively affect our ability to market our offering. We rely on our reputation and recommendations from key customers in order to promote our offering. The loss of any of our key customers, or a failure of some of them to renew, could have a significant impact on our revenue, reputation, and our ability to obtain new customers. In addition, acquisitions of our customers could lead to cancellation of our subscriptions and usage-based commitments with those customers or by the acquiring companies, thereby reducing the number of our existing and potential customers. Acquisitions of our partners could also result in a decrease in the number of our current and potential customers, as our partners may no longer facilitate the adoption of our offering. Incorrect implementation or use of our offering, or our customers failure to update Confluent Platform, could result in customer dissatisfaction and negatively affect our reputation, business, operations, financial results, and growth prospects. Our offering is often used for and within large scale, complex IT environments. Our customers and some partners require education and experience in the proper use of and the benefits that can be derived from our offering to maximize their potential. If users of our offering do not implement, use, or update our offering correctly or as intended, then inadequate performance and/or security vulnerabilities may result. Because our customers rely on our offering to manage a wide range of operations, the incorrect implementation or use of our offering, or our self-managed customers failure to update Confluent Platform, or our failure to train customers on how to use our offering productively may result in customer dissatisfaction, and negative publicity, and may adversely affect our reputation and brand. Our failure to effectively provide education and implementation services to our customers could result in lost opportunities for follow-on sales to these customers and decrease subscriptions by new customers, which would adversely affect our business and growth prospects. 41 Table of Contents Indemnity provisions in various agreements to which we are party potentially expose us to substantial liability for infringement, misappropriation, or other violation of intellectual property rights, data protection, and other losses. Certain of our agreements with our customers and other third parties include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of infringement, misappropriation or other violation of intellectual property rights, data protection, compliance with laws, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our software, services, platform, our acts or omissions under such agreements, or other contractual obligations. From time to time, our customers and other third parties have requested, and may in the future request, us to indemnify them for such claims or liabilities. In certain circumstances, our agreements provide for uncapped indemnity liability for certain intellectual property infringement claims. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we attempt to contractually limit our liability with respect to such indemnity obligations, we are not always successful and may still incur substantial liability related to them, and we may be required to cease use of or modify certain functions of our offering as a result of any such claims. Any dispute with a customer or other third party with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with such customer or other third party and other existing or prospective customers, reduce demand for our subscriptions and services and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed or otherwise protect us from liabilities or damages with respect to claims alleging unauthorized access to or disclosure of customer data, and any such coverage may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. We typically provide service-level commitments under our customer agreements. If we fail to meet these commitments, we could face customer terminations, a reduction in renewals, and damage to our reputation, which would lower our revenue and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our agreements with our customers contain uptime and response service-level commitments. If we fail to meet these commitments, we could face customer terminations or a reduction in renewals, which could significantly affect both our current and future revenue. Any service-level commitment failures could also damage our reputation. In addition, if we are unable to meet the stated uptime requirements described in our Confluent Cloud agreements, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with service credits, which could significantly affect our revenue in the periods in which the failure occurs and the credits are applied. Any of these outcomes or failures could also adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We use third-party open source software in our offering, which could negatively affect our ability to sell our offering or subject us to litigation or other actions. We use third-party open source software in our offering, most significantly Apache Kafka, and we expect to continue to incorporate such open source software in our offering in the future. Many open source software licenses, including the Apache License, Version 2.0, state that any work of authorship licensed under it may be reproduced and distributed provided that certain conditions are met. However, we may be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership rights in what we believe to be permissively licensed open source software or claiming non-compliance with the applicable open source licensing terms. It is possible that a court would hold the Apache License, Version 2.0 to be unenforceable or that someone could assert a claim for proprietary rights in a program developed and distributed under it. Any ruling by a court that this license is not enforceable, or that open source components of our offering may not be reproduced or distributed, may negatively impact our distribution or development of all or a portion of our offering. 42 Table of Contents In addition, some open source licenses require end-users who distribute or make available across a network software and services that include open source software to make available all or part of such software, which in some circumstances could include valuable proprietary code. While we employ practices designed to monitor our compliance with the licenses of third-party open source software and protect our valuable proprietary source code, we may inadvertently use third-party open source software in a manner that is inconsistent with our applicable policies, or that exposes us to claims of non-compliance with the terms of their licenses, including claims of intellectual property rights infringement or breach of contract. Furthermore, there exists today an increasing number of types of open source software licenses, almost none of which have been tested in courts of law to provide guidance of their proper legal interpretations. From time to time, there have been claims challenging the ownership rights in open source software against companies that incorporate it into their offerings, and the licensors of such open source software provide no warranties or indemnities with respect to such claims. As a result, we and our customers could be subject to lawsuits or threats of lawsuits by parties claiming ownership rights in what we believe to be permissively licensed open source software. Resulting litigation could be costly for us to defend and harm our reputation, business, financial condition, and results of operations. If our activities were determined to be out of compliance with the terms of any applicable copyleft open source licenses, we may be required to publicly release certain portions of our proprietary source code for no cost, we could face an injunction for our offering, and we could also be required to expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer some or all of our software. We also regularly contribute source code under open source licenses and have made some of our own software available under open source or source-available licenses, and we include third-party open source software in our offering. Because the source code for any software we contribute to open source projects, including Apache Kafka, or distribute under open source or source-available licenses is publicly available, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such source code may be limited or lost entirely, and we may be limited in our ability to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed source code. While we have policies in place that govern such submissions, there is a risk that employees may submit proprietary source code or source code embodying our intellectual property, in either case, not intended to be distributed in such a manner, to such open source projects. In addition, the use of third-party open source software may expose us to greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the functionality or origin of the software. Use of open source software may also present additional security risks because the public availability of such software may publicize vulnerabilities or otherwise make it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to compromise our platform or the systems of our customers who are running our offering. Any of the foregoing could be harmful to our business, results of operations or financial condition, and could help our competitors develop products and services that are similar to or better than ours. 43 Table of Contents Our offering has evolved from Apache Kafka and other open source software, which are widely available, and therefore, we do not own the exclusive rights to the use of Apache Kafka and other open source software, nor are we able to control the evolution, enhancement, and maintenance of Apache Kafka and other open source software. The technology underlying our offering has evolved from certain open source software, such as Apache Kafka, and as a result we cannot exclude other companies from adopting and modifying certain common elements of our software and that of such open source software. With open source software, competitors can also develop competing products without the amount of overhead and lead time required for traditional proprietary software development. In addition, if competing products are also based on or compatible with Apache Kafka, existing customers may also be able to easily transfer their applications to competing products. Competitors with greater resources than ours or members of the Apache Kafka community may create similar or superior offerings, or modify Apache Kafka with different, superior features, and could make such products available to the public free of charge. Our competitors or members of the open source community may also develop a new open source project or a closed-source proprietary product that is similar to and superior to Apache Kafka in terms of features or performance, in turn gaining popularity or replacing Apache Kafka as the new standard for data-in-motion technology among developers and other users. As a result, the future of Apache Kafka and other open source software could change dramatically and such change in trajectory, use and acceptance in the marketplace and resulting competitive pressure could result in reductions in the prices we charge for our offering, loss of market share, and adversely affect our business operations and financial outlook. Additionally, the development and growth of our proprietary offering may result in the perception within the open source community of a diminution of our commitment to Apache Kafka and other open source platforms. Such perceptions may negatively affect our reputation within the developer community, which may adversely affect market acceptance and future sales of our offering. Any failure to obtain, maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. Our success depends to a significant degree on our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, including our proprietary technology, know-how, and our brand. We rely on a combination of trademarks, trade secret laws, patents, copyrights, service marks, contractual restrictions, and other intellectual property laws and confidentiality procedures to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property rights may be inadequate. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property rights if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors may gain access to our proprietary technology and develop and commercialize substantially identical products, services, or technologies. In addition, defending our intellectual property rights might entail significant expense. Any patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights that we have or may obtain may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated or held unenforceable through administrative process, including re-examination, inter partes review, interference and derivation proceedings, and equivalent proceedings in foreign jurisdictions (e.g., opposition proceedings), or litigation. We have a limited patent portfolio. Even if we continue to seek patent protection in the future, we may be unable to obtain or maintain patent protection for our technology. In addition, our issued patents or any patents issued from future patent applications or licensed to us in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties. There may be issued patents of which we are not aware, held by third parties that, if found to be valid and enforceable, could be alleged to be infringed by our current or future technologies or offerings. There also may be pending patent applications of which we are not aware that may result in issued patents, which could be alleged to be infringed by our current or future technologies or offerings. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our offering and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products that compete with ours. Patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our offering is available. 44 Table of Contents The value of our intellectual property could diminish if others assert rights in or ownership of our trademarks and other intellectual property rights, or trademarks that are similar to our trademarks. We may be unable to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In some cases, litigation or other actions may be necessary to protect or enforce our trademarks and other intellectual property rights. Furthermore, third parties may assert intellectual property claims against us, and we may be subject to liability, required to enter into costly license agreements, or required to rebrand our offering or prevented from selling our offering if third parties successfully oppose or challenge our trademarks or successfully claim that we infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate their trademarks or other intellectual property rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States, and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. As we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our offering and proprietary information will likely increase. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets, and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive, and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be weak. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with other third parties, including suppliers and other partners. However, we cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that has or may have had access to our proprietary information, know-how, and trade secrets. Moreover, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to, distribution, use, misuse, misappropriation, reverse engineering, or disclosure of our proprietary information, know-how, and trade secrets. Further, these agreements may not prevent our competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our offering and platform capabilities. These agreements may be breached, and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. Additionally, as a result of the Codecov Breach, certain of our proprietary data and information, including source code, was exfiltrated. This and any future similar incidents may lead to unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights by third parties. Third parties with access to our exfiltrated source code may also glean insights into our proprietary architecture by examining structural elements of the source code. Due to the nature of this incident, our ability to enforce our rights against such unauthorized users may be limited or not possible. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect such rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time-consuming, and distracting to management, and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Further, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims, and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights, and if such defenses, counterclaims, or countersuits are successful, we could lose valuable intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our offering and platform capabilities, impair the functionality of our offering and platform capabilities, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our offering, or injure our reputation. 45 Table of Contents We may become subject to intellectual property disputes, which are costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. We may become subject to intellectual property disputes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and commercialize our offering without infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of third parties. However, we may not be aware that our offering is infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating third-party intellectual property rights, and such third parties may bring claims alleging such infringement, misappropriation or violation. Lawsuits are time-consuming and expensive to resolve, and they divert managements time and attention. The software industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, and other intellectual and proprietary rights. Companies in the software industry are often required to defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement, misappropriation or other violations of intellectual property rights. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims against their use. In addition, many companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. We do not currently have a large patent portfolio, which could prevent us from deterring patent infringement claims through our own patent portfolio, and our competitors and others may now and in the future have significantly larger and more mature patent portfolios than we have. Any litigation may also involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenue, and therefore, our patent applications may provide little or no deterrence as we would not be able to assert them against such entities or individuals. If a third party is able to obtain an injunction preventing us from accessing such third-party intellectual property rights, or if we cannot license or develop alternative technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our offering or cease business activities related to such intellectual property. Although we carry general liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. We cannot predict the outcome of lawsuits and cannot ensure that the results of any such actions will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any intellectual property litigation to which we might become a party, or for which we are required to provide indemnification, may require us to do one or more of the following: cease selling or using offerings that incorporate the intellectual property rights that we allegedly infringe, misappropriate or violate; make substantial payments for legal fees, settlement payments, or other costs or damages; obtain a license, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all, to sell or use the relevant technology; or redesign the allegedly infringing offerings to avoid infringement, misappropriation or violation, which could be costly, time-consuming, or impossible. Even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and harm our business and results of operations. Moreover, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. We expect that the occurrence of infringement claims is likely to grow as the market for our platform for data in motion and our offering grows. Accordingly, our exposure to damages resulting from infringement claims could increase, and this could further exhaust our financial and management resources. 46 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties We rely on third-party providers of cloud-based infrastructure to host Confluent Cloud. Any failure to adapt our offering to evolving network architecture technology, disruption in the operations of these third-party providers, limitations on capacity or use of features, or interference with our use could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We outsource all of the infrastructure relating to Confluent Cloud to AWS, Azure, and GCP, as selected by our customers. Customers of our Confluent Cloud service need to be able to access our service at any time, without interruption or degradation of performance, and we provide them with service-level commitments with respect to uptime. Our Confluent Cloud service depends on the ability of the cloud infrastructure hosted by these third-party providers to allow for our customers configuration, architecture, features, and interconnection specifications, as well as secure the information stored in these virtual data centers, which is transmitted through third-party internet service providers. Any limitation on the capacity of our third-party hosting providers, including due to technical failures, natural disasters, fraud, or security attacks, could impede our ability to onboard new customers or expand the usage of our existing customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our third-party cloud service providers run their own platforms that we access, and we are, therefore, vulnerable to service interruptions at these providers. Any incident affecting our providers infrastructure, including any incident that may be caused by cyber-attacks, natural disasters, fire, flood, severe storm, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist or other attacks, and other similar events beyond our control could negatively affect our Confluent Cloud service. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within a period of time acceptable to our customers. A prolonged service disruption affecting our service for any of the foregoing reasons would negatively impact our ability to serve our customers and could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers or otherwise harm our business. We may also incur significant costs for using alternative equipment or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that damage the third-party cloud services we use. Features and functionality for Confluent Cloud may also not be available on the same basis or at all on one or more infrastructure platforms, which may hinder adoption of Confluent Cloud, reduce usage, and harm our brand, business, and results of operations. Any of the above circumstances or events may harm our reputation, cause customers to stop using our products, impair our ability to increase revenue from existing customers, impair our ability to grow our customer base, and otherwise harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the event that our service agreements with our third-party cloud service providers are terminated or amended, or there is a lapse of service, elimination of services or features that we utilize, interruption of internet service provider connectivity or damage to such facilities, access to Confluent Cloud could be interrupted and result in significant delays and additional expense as we arrange or create new facilities and services or re-architect our Confluent Cloud service for deployment on a different cloud infrastructure service provider, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. To the extent that we do not effectively anticipate capacity demands, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. 47 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with partners to distribute our products and generate sales opportunities, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. We have established, and intend to continue seeking opportunities for, partnership arrangements with certain channel partners to distribute our products and generate sales opportunities, particularly internationally. We believe that continued growth in our business is dependent upon identifying, developing, and maintaining strategic relationships with our existing and potential channel partners that can drive revenue growth in more geographies and market segments, particularly for government customers, and provide additional features and functionality to our customers. Our agreements with our existing channel partners are non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. They may also cease marketing our products with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. We expect that any additional channel partners we identify and develop will be similarly non-exclusive and not bound by any requirement to continue to market our products. As our channel partnerships come to an end or terminate, we may be unable to renew or replace them on comparable terms, or at all. In addition, winding down channel partnerships can result in additional costs, litigation, and negative publicity. If we fail to identify additional channel partners in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all, or are unable to assist our current and future channel partners in independently distributing and deploying our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed. When we enter into channel partnerships, our partners may be required to undertake some portion of sales, marketing, implementation services, engineering services, support services, or software configuration that we would otherwise provide, including due to regulatory constraints. In such cases, our partner may be less successful than we would have otherwise been absent the arrangement and our ability to influence, or have visibility into, the sales, marketing, and related efforts of our partners may be limited. Further, if our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our products, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our reputation and ability to grow our business may also be harmed. We depend and rely on SaaS technologies from third parties to operate our business, and interruptions or performance problems with these technologies may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on hosted SaaS applications from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including enterprise resource planning, order management, billing, project management, human resources, technical support, and accounting and other operational activities. If these services become unavailable due to extended outages, interruptions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, our expenses could increase, our ability to manage finances could be interrupted and our processes for managing sales of our offering and supporting our customers could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained, and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Employees and Culture We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel, including senior management and our engineering, services, sales and technology professionals. If we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business will be harmed. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our senior management team, particularly Jay Kreps, our Chief Executive Officer and co-founder, as well as our other key employees in the areas of research and development and sales and marketing. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team or other key employees resulting from the hiring or departure of these personnel. Our executive officers and certain other key employees are employed on an at-will basis, which means that these personnel could terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of one or more of our executive officers, or the failure by our executive team to effectively work with our employees and lead our company, could harm our business. We also are dependent on the continued service of our existing software engineers because of the complexity of our offering. 48 Table of Contents In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially for engineers experienced in designing and developing cloud-based infrastructure products and for experienced sales professionals. If we are unable to attract such personnel at appropriate locations, we may need to hire in new regions, which may add to the complexity and costs of our business operations. From time to time, we have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached certain legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, prospective and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, experiences significant volatility, or increases such that prospective employees believe there is limited upside to the value of our equity awards, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects would be harmed. Our company values have contributed to our success. If we cannot maintain these values as we grow, we could lose certain benefits we derive from them, and our employee turnover could increase, which could harm our business. We believe that our company values have been and will continue to be a key contributor to our success. We have rapidly increased our workforce across all departments, and we expect to continue to hire aggressively across our business. Our anticipated headcount growth, combined with our transition from a privately-held to a publicly-traded company, may result in changes to certain employees adherence to our core company values. If we do not continue to maintain our adherence to our company values as we grow, including through any future acquisitions or other strategic transactions, we may experience increased turnover in a portion of our current employee base and may not continue to be successful in hiring future employees. Moreover, many of our employees may be eligible to receive significant proceeds from the sale of Class A common stock in the public markets. This may lead to higher employee attrition rates. If we do not replace departing employees on a timely basis, our business and growth may be harmed. Risks Related to Our International Operations If we are not successful in expanding our operations and customer base internationally, our business and results of operations could be negatively affected. A component of our growth strategy involves the further expansion of our operations and customer base internationally. Customers outside the United States generated 36% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021. We are continuing to adapt to and develop strategies to expand in international markets, but there is no guarantee that such efforts will have the desired effect. For example, we anticipate that we will need to establish relationships with new channel partners in order to expand into certain countries, and if we fail to identify, establish, and maintain such relationships, we may be unable to execute on our expansion plans. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 33% of our full-time employees were located outside of the United States, with 9% of our full-time employees located in the UK. We expect that our international activities will continue to grow for the foreseeable future as we continue to pursue opportunities in existing and new international markets, which will require significant dedication of management attention and financial resources. If we invest substantial time and resources to further expand our international operations and are unable to do so successfully and in a timely manner, our business and results of operations will suffer. We are subject to risks inherent in international operations that can harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our current and future international business and operations involve a variety of risks, including: slower than anticipated availability and adoption of cloud infrastructure or cloud-native products by international businesses; changes in a specific countrys or regions political or economic conditions, including in the UK as a result of Brexit; 49 Table of Contents the need to adapt and localize our offering for specific countries; greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles; potential changes in trade relations, regulations, or laws; unexpected changes in laws, regulatory requirements, or tax laws; more stringent regulations relating to privacy, data security, and data localization requirements and the unauthorized use of, or access to, commercial and personal information; differing and potentially more onerous labor regulations, especially in Europe, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing, and the increased costs associated with, an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits, and compliance programs that are specific to each jurisdiction; potential changes in laws, regulations, and costs affecting our UK operations and local employees due to Brexit; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems, and regulatory systems; increased travel, real estate, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with international operations; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we choose to do so in the future; limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; laws and business practices favoring local competitors or general market preferences for local vendors; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection or difficulties obtaining, maintaining, protecting, or enforcing our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks and patents; political instability or terrorist activities; health epidemics or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; exposure to liabilities under anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, U.S. bribery laws, the UK Bribery Act, and similar laws and regulations in other jurisdictions; and adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash. The occurrence of any one of these risks could harm our international business and, consequently, our results of operations. Additionally, operating in international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required to operate in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. 50 Table of Contents Legal, political, and economic uncertainty surrounding the exit of the UK from the EU may be a source of instability in international markets, create significant currency fluctuations, adversely affect our operations in the UK and pose additional risks to our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Following the result of a referendum in 2016, the UK left the EU on January 31, 2020, commonly referred to as Brexit. Following the end of the transitional period on December 31, 2020, during which period EU rules continued to apply in the UK, an agreement outlining the future trading relationship between the EU and the UK, referred to as the Trade and Cooperation Agreement, became effective. The Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which was formally ratified by the parties and became fully effective on May 1, 2021, does not cover financial services in any meaningful way. Notwithstanding the Trade and Cooperation Agreement, uncertainty concerning the UKs legal, political, and economic relationship with the EU may continue to be a source of instability in the international markets, create significant currency fluctuations, or otherwise adversely affect trading agreements or similar cross-border co-operation arrangements (whether economic, tax, fiscal, legal, regulatory, or otherwise). These developments have had and may continue to have a significant adverse effect on global economic conditions and the stability of global financial markets, and could significantly reduce global market liquidity and limit the ability of key market participants to operate in certain financial markets. In particular, it could also lead to a period of considerable uncertainty in relation to the UK financial and banking markets, as well as on the regulatory process in Europe. Asset valuations, currency exchange rates, and credit ratings may also be subject to increased market volatility. The long-term effects of Brexit will depend on any further agreements, in particular on financial services (or lack thereof), between the UK and the EU. Such a withdrawal from the EU is unprecedented, and it is unclear how the UKs access to the European single market for goods, capital, services, and labor within the EU, or single market, and the wider commercial, legal, and regulatory environment, will impact our UK operations and customers. Our UK operations service customers in the UK as well as in other countries in the EU and EEA, and these operations could be disrupted by Brexit. We may also face new regulatory costs and challenges as a result of Brexit that could have an adverse effect on our operations. For example, the UK could lose the benefits of global trade agreements negotiated by the EU on behalf of its members, which, if not replicated by the UK, may result in increased trade barriers. There may continue to be economic uncertainty surrounding the consequences of Brexit that adversely impact customer confidence resulting in customers reducing their spending budgets on our offering, which could harm our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our results of operations. Our subscriptions and services are billed in U.S. dollars, and therefore, our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our offering to our customers outside of the United States, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, an increasing portion of our operating expenses are incurred outside the United States. These operating expenses are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. While we do not currently hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, if our foreign currency risk increases in the future and we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Tax, Legal, and Regulatory Environment We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls. Our offering is subject to U.S. export controls, including the Export Administration Regulations, and we incorporate encryption technology into our offering. Our offering and the underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception, or other appropriate government authorizations, including the filing of an encryption classification request or self-classification report, as applicable. 51 Table of Contents Furthermore, we are required to comply with economic and trade sanctions laws and regulations administered by governments where our offering is provided, including the U.S. government (including regulations administered and enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Treasury Department and the U.S. Department of State). These economic and trade sanctions prohibit or restrict the shipment of most products and services to embargoed jurisdictions or sanctioned parties, unless required export authorizations are obtained. Obtaining the necessary export license or other authorization for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. While we have taken certain precautions to prevent our offering from being provided in violation of export control and sanctions laws, and are in the process of enhancing our policies and procedures relating to export control and sanctions compliance, our products may have been in the past, and could in the future be, provided inadvertently in violation of such laws. Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control regulations can result in significant fines or penalties and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers. If our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export, or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected through reputational harm, as well as other negative consequences, including government investigations and penalties. Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our offering or could limit our end-customers ability to implement our offering in those countries. Changes in our offering or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our offering in international markets, prevent our end-customers with international operations from deploying our offering globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our offering to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. From time to time, various governmental agencies have proposed additional regulation of encryption technology. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, increased export and import controls, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our offering by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our offering to, existing or potential end-customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our offering or limitation on our ability to export or sell our offering would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and growth prospects. We are subject to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and similar laws, and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal or civil liability and harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to the FCPA, U.S. domestic bribery laws, the UK Bribery Act, and other anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws in the countries in which we conduct activities. Anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly to generally prohibit companies, their employees, and their third-party intermediaries from authorizing, offering, or providing, directly or indirectly, improper payments or benefits to recipients in the public or private sector. As we increase our international sales and business and sales to the public sector, we may engage with business partners and third-party intermediaries to market our offering and to obtain necessary permits, licenses, and other regulatory approvals. In addition, we or our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities. We can be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, our employees and agents may take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. As we increase our international sales and business, our risks under these laws may increase. 52 Table of Contents Detecting, investigating and resolving actual or alleged violations of anti-corruption laws can require a significant diversion of time, resources, and attention from senior management. In addition, noncompliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery or anti-money laundering laws could subject us to whistleblower complaints, investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, enforcement actions, fines, damages, other civil or criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension, or debarment from contracting with certain persons, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. If any subpoenas or investigations are launched, or governmental or other sanctions are imposed, or if we do not prevail in any possible civil or criminal proceeding, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. In addition, responding to any action will likely result in a materially significant diversion of managements attention and resources and significant defense costs and other professional fees. Changes in laws and regulations related to the internet or changes in the internet infrastructure itself may diminish the demand for our software, and could have a negative impact on our business. The future success of our business, and particularly Confluent Cloud, depends upon the continued use of the internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication, and business applications. Federal, state or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting the use of the internet as a commercial medium. Changes in these laws or regulations could require us to modify our software in order to comply with these changes. In addition, government agencies or private organizations may begin to impose taxes, fees or other charges for accessing the internet or commerce conducted via the internet. These laws or charges could limit the growth of internet-related commerce or communications generally, resulting in reductions in the demand for internet-based solutions such as ours. In addition, the use of the internet as a business tool could be adversely affected due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards and protocols to handle increased demands of internet activity, security, reliability, cost, ease of use, accessibility, and quality of service. The performance of the internet and its acceptance as a business tool have been adversely affected by ransomware, viruses, worms, malware, phishing attacks, data breaches, and similar malicious programs, behavior, and events, and the internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. If the use of the internet is adversely affected by these issues, demand for our subscription offering and related services could suffer. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings could harm our financial position and results of operations. The tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income taxes, are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. Changes in tax laws, regulations, or rulings, or changes in interpretations of existing laws and regulations, could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. For example, the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act, made broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code, including changes to U.S. federal tax rates, additional limitations on the deductibility of interest, both positive and negative changes to the utilization of future net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards, allowing for the expensing of certain capital expenditures, and putting into effect the migration from a worldwide system of taxation to a territorial system. The issuance of additional regulatory or accounting guidance related to the Tax Act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate in the period issued. In addition, many countries in Europe, as well as a number of other countries and organizations (including the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the European Commission), have recently proposed, recommended, or (in the case of countries) enacted or otherwise become subject to changes to existing tax laws or new tax laws that could significantly increase our tax obligations in the countries where we do business or require us to change the manner in which we operate our business. These proposals, recommendations and enactments include changes to the existing framework in respect of income taxes, as well as new types of non-income taxes (such as taxes based on a percentage of revenue or taxes applicable to digital services) which could apply to our business. Due to the large and expanding scale of our international business activities, these types of changes to the taxation of our activities could increase our worldwide effective tax rate, increase the amount of taxes imposed on our business, and harm our financial position. Such changes may also apply retroactively to our historical operations and result in taxes greater than the amounts estimated and recorded in our financial statements. Any of these outcomes could harm our financial position and results of operations. 53 Table of Contents We could be required to collect additional sales taxes or be subject to other tax liabilities that may increase the costs our customers would have to pay for our offering and adversely affect our results of operations. An increasing number of states have considered or adopted laws that impose tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies. Online sellers can be required to collect sales and use tax despite not having a physical presence in the buyers state. States or local governments may interpret existing laws, or have adopted or may adopt new laws, requiring us to calculate, collect and remit taxes on sales in their jurisdictions. A successful assertion by one or more taxing jurisdictions requiring us to collect taxes where we presently do not do so, or to collect more taxes in a jurisdiction in which we currently do collect some taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities, including taxes on past sales, as well as penalties and interest. The imposition by state or local governments of sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state sellers also could create additional administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on our competitors, and decrease our future sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. As of December 31, 2021, we had net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes of $1,096.7 million and $559.6 million, respectively, which may be available to offset taxable income in the future. A portion of the NOLs begin to expire in various years beginning in 2034 for federal purposes and 2025 for state purposes if not utilized. The remaining portion of these federal NOLs are carried forward indefinitely. Of the federal net operating loss carryforwards, approximately 96% can be carried forward indefinitely, but are limited to 80% of annual taxable income. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, we had foreign NOL carryforwards of $59.1 million which can be carried forward indefinitely. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs before they expire. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change (as defined under Section 382 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations) is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. We may experience a future ownership change under Section 382 of the Code that could affect our ability to utilize the NOLs to offset our income. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to reduce future income tax liabilities, including for state tax purposes. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we attain profitability, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our effective tax rate or tax liability may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment by management, and there are many transactions where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We believe that our provision for income taxes is reasonable, but the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods in which such outcome is determined. Our effective tax rate could increase due to several factors, including: changes in the relative amounts of income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changes in tax laws, tax treaties, and regulations or the interpretation of them, including the Tax Act; changes to our assessment about our ability to realize our deferred tax assets that are based on estimates of our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies, and the economic and political environments in which we do business; 54 Table of Contents the outcome of current and future tax audits, examinations or administrative appeals; and limitations or adverse findings regarding our ability to do business in some jurisdictions. Any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Accounting Policies and Internal Controls Our reported financial results may be adversely affected by changes in generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. GAAP are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and could affect the reporting of transactions already completed before the announcement of a change. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant estimates and judgments involve revenue recognition, deferred contract costs, and the valuation of our stock-based compensation awards, among others. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our Class A common stock. As a result of being a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting, and any failure to maintain the adequacy of these internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our Class A common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2022. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. We have recently commenced the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, but we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion once initiated. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial expenses and expend significant management efforts. We have only recently established an internal audit group, and as we continue to grow, we may hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and compile the system and process documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. 55 Table of Contents During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to certify that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting, including historical or future control deficiencies, could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Class A Common Stock The dual class structure of our common stock as contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation has the effect of concentrating voting control with those stockholders who held our stock prior to the IPO, including our executive officers, employees, and directors and their affiliates, and limiting your ability to influence corporate matters, which could adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Our Class B common stock has 10 votes per share, and our Class A common stock has one vote per share. As of December 31, 2021, stockholders who hold shares of Class B common stock, including our executive officers and directors and their affiliates, together hold approximately 93.0% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock, and our Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Kreps, beneficially owns approximately 10.5% of our outstanding classes of common stock as a whole, but controls approximately 16.9% of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our executive officers, directors, and other affiliates and potentially our Chief Executive Officer on his own have significant influence over our management and affairs and over all matters requiring stockholder approval, including election of directors and significant corporate transactions, such as a merger or other sale of the company or our assets, for the foreseeable future. Even if Mr. Kreps is no longer employed with us, he will continue to have the same influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. In addition, the holders of Class B common stock collectively will continue to be able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval even if their stock holdings represent less than 50% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Because of the 10-to-1 voting ratio between our Class B common stock and Class A common stock, the holders of our Class B common stock collectively will continue to control a majority of the combined voting power of our common stock even when the shares of Class B common stock represent as little as 10% of all outstanding shares of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. This concentrated control will limit your ability to influence corporate matters for the foreseeable future, and, as a result, the market price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. Future transfers or voluntary conversions by holders of shares of Class B common stock will generally result in those shares converting to shares of Class A common stock, which will have the effect, over time, of increasing the relative voting power of those holders of Class B common stock who retain their shares in the long term. Certain permitted transfers, as specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, will not result in shares of Class B common stock automatically converting to shares of Class A common stock, including certain estate planning transfers as well as transfers to our founders or our founders estates or heirs upon death or incapacity of such founder. If, for example, Mr. Kreps (or family trusts to which he were to transfer shares of Class B common stock) retain a significant portion of his holdings of Class B common stock for an extended period of time, he (or such trusts) could, in the future, control a majority of the combined voting power of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. As a board member, Mr. Kreps owes a fiduciary duty to our stockholders and must act in good faith in a manner he reasonably believes to be in the best interests of our stockholders. As a stockholder, Mr. Kreps is entitled to vote his shares in his own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally. 56 Table of Contents FTSE Russell and Standard & Poors do not allow most newly public companies utilizing dual or multi-class capital structures to be included in their indices. Affected indices include the Russell 2000 and the S&P 500, S&P MidCap 400, and S&P SmallCap 600, which together make up the S&P Composite 1500. Also, in 2017, MSCI, a leading stock index provider, opened public consultations on its treatment of no-vote and multi-class structures and temporarily barred new multi-class listings from certain of its indices; however, in October 2018, MSCI announced its decision to include equity securities with unequal voting structures in its indices and to launch a new index that specifically includes voting rights in its eligibility criteria. Under the announced policies, our dual class capital structure makes us ineligible for inclusion in certain indices, and as a result, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and other investment vehicles that attempt to passively track these indices will not be investing in our stock. In addition, we cannot assure you that other stock indices will not take similar actions. Given the sustained flow of investment funds into passive strategies that seek to track certain indices, exclusion from certain stock indices would likely preclude investment by many of these funds and would make our Class A common stock less attractive to other investors. As a result, the trading price, volume, and liquidity of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our Class A common stock may decline. The market price of our Class A common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition or results of operations, including due to fluctuations in usage of Confluent Cloud; variance in our financial performance, including sales growth and operating margins, from our forecasts or the expectations of securities analysts; changes in our revenue mix; changes in the pricing of our offering; changes in our projected operating and financial results; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our offering; seasonality in sales, customer implementations, results of operations, and RPO; announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, acquisitions, or new offerings; significant data breaches, disruptions to or other incidents involving our offering; our involvement in litigation or regulatory actions; future sales of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock by us or our stockholders; changes in senior management or key personnel; the trading volume of our Class A common stock; financial results, changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of technology companies in our industry segment, including our partners and competitors; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; and general economic and market conditions, including effects of inflationary pressures. 57 Table of Contents Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory and market conditions, may also negatively impact the market price of our Class A common stock. In addition, technology stocks have historically experienced high levels of volatility. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial expenses and divert our managements attention. We have broad discretion in the use of the net proceeds to us from our IPO and our convertible notes offering and may not use them effectively. We have broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds to us from our IPO and our convertible notes offering. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of the net proceeds from our IPO and convertible notes offering, our ultimate use may vary substantially from our currently intended use. Investors will need to rely on the judgment of our management with respect to the use of proceeds. Pending use, we may invest the net proceeds from our IPO and our convertible notes offering in short-term, investment-grade, interest-bearing securities, such as money market funds, corporate notes and bonds, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, and guaranteed obligations of the U.S. government that may not generate a high yield for our stockholders. If we do not use the net proceeds that we received in our IPO or convertible notes offering effectively, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be harmed, and the market price of our Class A common stock could decline. Future sales of our Class A common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our Class A common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our Class A common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Many of our equity holders who held our capital stock prior to completion of the IPO have substantial unrecognized gains on the value of the equity they hold based on recent market prices of our shares of Class A common stock, and therefore, they may take steps to sell their shares or otherwise secure the unrecognized gains on those shares. We are unable to predict the timing of or the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our Class A common stock. Additionally, the conversion of some or all of the notes may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Upon conversion of the notes, we have the option to pay or deliver, as the case may be, cash, shares of our Class A common stock, or a combination of cash and shares of our Class A common stock. If we elect to settle our conversion obligation in shares of our Class A common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our Class A common stock, any sales in the public market of our Class A common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Class A common stock. In addition, the existence of the notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the notes into shares of our Class A common stock could depress the price of our Class A common stock. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, up to 65,399,423 shares of our Class B common stock and up to 2,961,468 shares of our Class A common stock may be issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options or vesting and settlement of outstanding RSUs, and 37,959,820 shares of our Class A common stock are available for future issuance under our 2021 Plan and our 2021 ESPP, and will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting schedules, exercise limitations and Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. We have registered all of the shares of Class A common stock and Class B common stock issuable upon exercise of outstanding options and all of the shares of Class A common stock issuable upon vesting and settlement of restricted stock units, as well as other equity incentive awards we may grant in the future for public resale under the Securities Act. Shares of Class A common stock will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent such options are exercised and restricted stock units settle, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws. Our 0% convertible senior notes due 2027 will also become convertible at the option of the holders, subject to certain limitations and restrictions prior to October 15, 2026. If these additional shares of Class A common stock are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. 58 Table of Contents Further, certain holders of our outstanding common stock, including our founders and entities affiliated with our founders and certain of our directors, have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Our issuance of additional capital stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, our equity incentive plans or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. We expect to issue additional capital stock in the future that will result in dilution to all other stockholders. We expect to grant equity awards to employees, officers and directors under our equity incentive plans. We may also raise capital through equity financings in the future. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in companies, products or technologies and issue equity securities to pay for any such acquisition or investment. Any such issuances of additional capital stock may cause stockholders to experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our Class A common stock to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our Class A common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, you may need to rely on sales of our Class A common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on your investment. We are an emerging growth company, and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies, including the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. Pursuant to Section 107 of the JOBS Act, as an emerging growth company, we have elected to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards, which allows us to delay adoption until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies, which may make our Class A common stock less attractive to investors. In addition, when we cease to be an emerging growth company, we will no longer be able to use the extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company until the first to occur of: (1) the last day of the year following the fifth anniversary of the IPO; (2) the last day of the first year in which our annual gross revenue is $1.07 billion or more; (3) the date on which we have, during the previous rolling three-year period, issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities; and (4) the date we qualify as a large accelerated filer, with at least $700 million of equity securities held by non-affiliates as of the preceding June 30 and upon such time that we have been subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, for at least 12 months. We cannot predict if investors will find our Class A common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. For example, if we do not adopt a new or revised accounting standard, our future results of operations may not be as comparable to the results of operations of certain other companies in our industry that adopted such standards. If some investors find our Class A common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Class A common stock, and our stock price may be more volatile. 59 Table of Contents We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, which we expect to further increase after we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur as a public company or the specific timing of such costs. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights, and preferences determined by our board of directors that may be senior to our Class A common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, our chief executive officer, or our president (in the absence of a chief executive officer); establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; provide that our directors may be removed for cause only upon the vote of the holders of at least a majority of our outstanding shares of voting stock; provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; and require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the voting power of our outstanding shares of voting stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. 60 Table of Contents These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any of the foregoing provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Class A common stock, and they could deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that holders of our Class A common stock would receive a premium for their shares of our Class A common stock in an acquisition. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware and the federal district courts of the United States of America as the exclusive forums for certain disputes between us and our stockholders, which restricts our stockholders ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if and only if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware lacks subject matter jurisdiction, any state court located within the State of Delaware or, if and only if all such state courts lack subject matter jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings under Delaware statutory or common law: (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; (ii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees to us or our stockholders, or any action asserting a claim for aiding and abetting such breach of fiduciary duty; (iii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim against us or any of our current or former directors, officers or other employees arising out of or pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws; (iv) any action or proceeding to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws (including any right, obligation, or remedy thereunder); (v) any action or proceeding as to which the Delaware General Corporation Law confers jurisdiction to the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware; and (vi) any action or proceeding asserting a claim against us or any of our current or former directors, officers, or other employees that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, in all cases to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to the courts having personal jurisdiction over the indispensable parties named as defendants. This provision does not apply to suits brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. In addition, to prevent having to litigate claims in multiple jurisdictions and the threat of inconsistent or contrary rulings by different courts, among other considerations, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the federal district courts of the United States of America are the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act, including all causes of action asserted against any defendant named in such complaint. For the avoidance of doubt, this provision is intended to benefit and may be enforced by us, our officers and directors, the underwriters to any offering giving rise to such complaint, and any other professional entity whose profession gives authority to a statement made by that person or entity and who has prepared or certified any part of the documents underlying the offering. However, as Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, there is uncertainty as to whether a court would enforce such provision. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that any person or entity holding, owning or otherwise acquiring any interest in any of our securities shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to these provisions. Investors also cannot waive compliance with the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. 61 Table of Contents These choice of forum provisions may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees. While the Delaware courts have determined that such choice of forum provisions are facially valid, a stockholder may nevertheless seek to bring such a claim arising under the Securities Act against us, our directors, officers, or other employees in a venue other than in the federal district courts of the United States of America. In such instance, we would expect to vigorously assert the validity and enforceability of the exclusive forum provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. This may require significant additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions and we cannot assure you that the provisions will be enforced by a court in those other jurisdictions. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur further significant additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, all of which could harm our business. Risks Related to Our Convertible Senior Notes We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the notes in cash or to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the notes. Holders of the notes have the right, subject to certain conditions and limited exceptions, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a fundamental change repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid special interest. In addition, upon conversion of the notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our Class A common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase the notes or to pay cash upon conversions of the notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture or to pay any cash payable on future conversions of the notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture governing the notes or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. The conditional conversion feature of the notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the notes is triggered, holders of notes will be entitled to convert their notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our Class A common stock (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we would be required to settle a portion or all of our conversion obligation through the payment of cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. 62 Table of Contents Certain provisions in the indenture governing the notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial takeover attempt of us. Certain provisions in the indenture governing the notes may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire us. For example, the indenture governing the notes generally requires us to repurchase the notes for cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change and, in certain circumstances, to increase the conversion rate for a holder that converts its notes in connection with a make-whole fundamental change. A takeover of us may trigger the requirement that we repurchase the notes and/or increase the conversion rate, which could make it costlier for a potential acquirer to engage in such takeover. Such additional costs may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of us that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. General Risk Factors Any future litigation against us could be costly and time-consuming to defend. We may become subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise in the ordinary course of business, such as intellectual property claims, including trade secret misappropriation and breaches of confidentiality terms, alleged breaches of non-competition or non-solicitation terms, or employment claims made by our current or former employees. Litigation might result in substantial costs and may divert managements attention and resources, which might seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Insurance might not cover such claims, might not provide sufficient payments to cover all the costs to resolve one or more such claims, and might not continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or underinsured could result in unanticipated costs, potentially harming our business, financial position, and results of operations. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, the market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock could decline. The market price and trading volume of our Class A common stock is heavily influenced by the way analysts interpret our financial information and other disclosures. We do not have control over these analysts. If industry analysts cease coverage of us, our stock price would be negatively affected. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, downgrade our Class A common stock, or publish negative reports about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our Class A common stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price to decline and could decrease the trading volume of our Class A common stock. Our business could be disrupted by catastrophic events. Occurrence of any catastrophic event, including earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, or other weather event, power loss, telecommunications failure, software or hardware malfunction, cyber-attack, war, or terrorist attack, explosion, or pandemic could impact our business. In particular, our corporate headquarters are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity, and are thus vulnerable to damage in an earthquake. Our insurance coverage may not compensate us for losses that may occur in the event of an earthquake or other significant natural disaster. Additionally, we rely on third-party cloud providers and enterprise applications, technology systems, and our website for our development, marketing, operational support, hosted services, and sales activities. In the event of a catastrophic event, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development, lengthy interruptions in our services, and breaches of data security, all of which could have an adverse effect on our future results of operations. If we are unable to develop adequate plans to ensure that our business functions continue to operate during and after a disaster and to execute successfully on those plans in the event of a disaster or emergency, our business would be harmed. 63 Table of Contents It em 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. It em 2. Properties Our headquarters are located in Mountain View, California, where we lease approximately 75,475 square feet pursuant to a lease which expires in 2029. We also lease other offices including in Austin, Texas, London, England, and Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Additionally, we hold many short-term office service memberships in numerous other locations globally. We do not own any real property. We believe that our facilities are adequate to meet our current needs. Ite m 3. Legal Proceedings From time to time, we are involved in various legal proceedings arising from activities in the normal course of business. We are not presently a party to any litigation the outcome of which, we believe, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Defending any legal proceedings is costly and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. It em 4. Mine Safety Disclosures None. 64 Table of Contents PART II It em 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our Class A common stock has been listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CFLT since June 24, 2021. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our Class A common stock. Holders of Record As of February 10, 2022, there were 90 stockholders of record of our Class A common stock and 57 stockholders of record of our Class B common stock. The actual number of holders of our Class A common stock is greater than the number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners, but whose shares are held in street name by brokers or other nominees. The number of holders of record presented here also does not include stockholders whose shares may be held in trust by other entities. Dividends We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock. We currently intend to retain all available funds and future earnings, if any, to fund the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any future determination regarding the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, our ability to pay dividends may be restricted by agreements we may enter into in the future. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities From January 1, 2021 to June 24, 2021 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-257338), we granted to certain directors, officers, employees, consultants, and other service providers options to purchase an aggregate of 17,189,295 shares of our Class B common stock under our Amended and Restated 2014 Stock Plan, or our 2014 Plan, at exercise prices ranging from $12.90 to $22.77 per share. From January 1, 2021 to June 24, 2021 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-257338), we granted to certain employees an aggregate of 4,084,219 restricted stock units to be settled in shares of Class B common stock under the 2014 Plan. From January 1, 2021 to June 24, 2021 (the date of the filing of our registration statement on Form S-8, File No. 333-257338), we issued to certain directors, officers, employees, consultants, and other service providers an aggregate of 10,627,793 shares of our Class B common stock upon the exercise of options under the 2014 Plan at exercise prices ranging from $0.04 to $19.95 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $36.8 million. 65 Table of Contents None of the foregoing transactions involved any underwriters, underwriting discounts or commissions, or any public offering. Unless otherwise stated, the sales of the above securities were deemed to be exempt from registration under the Securities Act in reliance on Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act (and Regulation D or Regulation S promulgated thereunder) or Rule 701 promulgated under Section 3(b) of the Securities Act as transactions by an issuer not involving any public offering or pursuant to benefit plans and contracts relating to compensation as provided under Rule 701. The recipients of the securities in each of these transactions represented their intentions to acquire the securities for investment only and not with a view to or for sale in connection with any distribution thereof, and appropriate legends were placed on the share certificates issued in these transactions. All recipients had adequate access, through their relationships with us, to information about us. The sales of these securities were made without any general solicitation or advertising. Use of Proceeds On June 28, 2021, we closed our IPO of 23,000,000 shares of Class A common stock at an offering price of $36.00 per share, resulting in aggregate gross proceeds to us of $828.0 million, before deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. All of the shares issued and sold in our IPO were registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 333-256693), which was declared effective by the SEC on June 23, 2021. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our IPO from those disclosed in our final prospectus for our IPO dated as of June 23, 2021 and filed with the SEC pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) on June 25, 2021. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 66 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following shall not be deemed soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC, for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section, and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our filings under the Securities Act. The performance graph below compares the cumulative total return on our Class A common stock from June 24, 2021 (the date our Class A common stock commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market) through December 31, 2021 with (i) the Nasdaq Composite Index and (ii) the Nasdaq Computer Index, assuming the investment of $100 in our Class A common stock and in both of the other indices on June 24, 2021 and the reinvestment of dividends. The performance graph uses the closing market price on June 24, 2021 of $45.02 per share as the initial value of our Class A common stock. The stock price performance on this performance graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. It em 6. Reserved 67 Table of Contents It em 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy and plans, and objectives of management for future operations, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note About Forward-Looking Statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should review the disclosure under the heading Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this Annual Report on Form 10-K to we, us, our, our company, and Confluent refer to Confluent, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, references to our common stock include our Class A common stock and Class B common stock. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 is presented below. A discussion regarding our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the final prospectus for our initial public offering (IPO) dated as of June 23, 2021 and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) on June 25, 2021. Overview Confluent is on a mission to set data in motion. We were founded in 2014 to pioneer this fundamentally new category of data infrastructure designed to connect all the applications, systems, and data layers of a company around a real-time central nervous system. This new data infrastructure software has emerged as one of the most strategic parts of the next-generation technology stack, and using this stack to harness data in motion is critical to the success of every modern company as they strive to compete and win in the digital-first world. Prior to Confluent, our founders created the open source software project Apache Kafka, a technology that has been central to enabling data in motion. Since our founding, we have heavily invested in product development to build a complete, cloud-native platform for data in motion. 68 Table of Contents Confluent is designed to act as the nexus of real-time data, from every source, allowing it to stream across the organization and enabling applications to harness it to power real-time customer experiences and data-driven business operations. Our offering enables organizations to deploy production-ready applications that span across cloud environments and data centers, while scaling elastically with enhanced features for security, compliance, and governance. Our platform provides the capabilities to fill the structural, operational, and engineering gaps required for businesses to fully realize the power of data in motion. We enable software developers to easily build their initial applications to harness data in motion, and enable large, complex enterprises to make data in motion core to everything they do. As organizations mature in their adoption cycle, we enable them to quickly, securely, and reliably build more and more applications that take advantage of data in motion. The results have a dual effect: businesses continuously improve their ability to provide better customer experiences and concurrently drive data-driven business operations. We believe that Confluent, over time, will become the central nervous system for modern digital enterprises, providing ubiquitous real-time connectivity and powering real-time applications across the enterprise. We generate our revenue primarily from the sale of subscriptions to our offering that can be deployed in two different ways. Confluent Platform is an enterprise-ready, self-managed software offering that can be deployed in our customers on-premise, private cloud, and public cloud environments. Confluent Cloud is a fully-managed, cloud-native software-as-a-service (SaaS) offering available on all of the leading cloud providers. These two core offerings can be leveraged independently or together, spanning the various public cloud, private cloud, and on-premise environments in which our customers operate. Confluent Platform customers receive access to our proprietary features and various tiers of customer support. Our Confluent Platform subscriptions primarily have one-year terms and are generally billed annually in advance. Confluent Cloud customers may purchase subscriptions either without a minimum commitment contract on a month-to-month basis, which we refer to as pay-as-you-go, or under a usage-based minimum commitment contract of at least one year in duration, in which customers commit to a fixed minimum monetary amount at specified per-usage rates. Pay-as you-go customers are billed, and revenue from them is recognized, based on usage. Customers with usage-based minimum commitments are billed annually in advance or monthly in arrears, and we recognize revenue from such subscriptions based on usage by the customer. As a result, our revenue may fluctuate from period to period due to varying patterns of customer consumption. We are focused on the acquisition of new customers and expanding within our current customers. Our go-to-market model benefits from our self-service motions driven by our cloud-native platform offerings, our widespread mindshare among developers through Apache Kafka, community downloads, and our enterprise sales force. We are able to acquire new customers through seamless and frictionless self-service cloud adoption and free cloud trials, as well as community downloads. For example, after users get started with our free cloud trial, they can easily convert online to become paying customers either on a pay-as-you-go model or with a minimum commitment contract. Once customers see the benefits of our platform for their initial use cases, they often expand into other use cases and lines of business, divisions, and geographies. Our deep technical expertise, coupled with our product capabilities and laser focus on customer outcomes, enable us to form strategic partnerships with our customers to guide and accelerate this journey. This expansion often generates a natural network effect in which the value of our platform to a customer increases as more use cases are adopted, more users and teams are onboarded, more applications and systems are connected, and more data is added. We had approximately 3,470, 2,100, and 820 customers as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. We have experienced significant growth, with revenue increasing from $236.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 to $387.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, representing year-over-year growth of 64%, and from $149.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 to $236.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, representing year-over-year growth of 58%. 69 Table of Contents Impact of COVID-19 The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has caused general business disruption worldwide. The full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic, including any new variants, will directly or indirectly impact our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition will depend on certain developments, including the duration and spread of the pandemic, related public health measures, how national, state, and local governments continue to respond, rate of COVID-19 vaccinations, emergence of new variant strains of the virus and their resistance to vaccines, and the pandemics impact on the global economy generally and our customers specifically, all of which remain highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted. Since the pandemic began, we have experienced, and may continue to experience in future periods, an adverse impact on certain parts of our business as a result of governmental restrictions and other measures to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including delays in delivery of professional services and education services to customers and a lengthening in the sales cycle for some prospective customers. If our customers or partners experience new or continued downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations or revenue resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, they may decrease or delay their spending, request pricing discounts, or seek renegotiations of their contracts, any of which may result in decreased revenue, dollar-based net retention rate (NRR), and cash receipts for us. Despite the adverse impacts described above, the pandemic has caused more of our existing and potential customers to accelerate their digital transformation efforts. As a result, we believe the value of our offering is becoming even more evident, which may result in a positive impact on our business over the long term. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we saw slower growth in certain operating expenses due to reduced business travel and the virtualization or cancellation of customer, partner, and employee events. While slower growth in operating expenses had a short-term benefit to our results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we expect expenses related to travel, in-person events, real estate and facilities to increase in 2022. We adopted several measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to focus on maintaining business continuity and preparing for the long-term success of our business, including temporarily requiring employees to work remotely, suspending non-essential travel by our employees, requiring events to be held virtually, and temporarily reducing the pace of our employee hiring across all functions in the second and third quarters of 2020. In particular, the reduction in employee hiring for our sales and marketing organization has negatively impacted our near- to medium-term growth rate and revenue. Furthermore, as a government contractor, we are subject to the federal government vaccination mandate, which requires federal contractor employees, except in certain limited circumstances, to be vaccinated against COVID-19 by January 4, 2022. While the vaccination mandate remains subject to the interpretation of various government agencies and other entities, and questions remain regarding the specific application of the vaccination mandate, we have developed and implemented certain protocols to voluntarily comply with the vaccination mandate. As of and for the year ended December 31, 2021, the vaccination mandate has not had a material impact on our employees or operations. We may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our business, employees, customers, and business partners. The global impact of COVID-19 continues to rapidly evolve, and while the broader implications of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic remain uncertain, we will continue to monitor the situation and the effects on our business and operations. 70 Table of Contents Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Developing Innovative, Market-Leading Offerings and Expanding Developer Mindshare We are focused on delivering market-leading offerings. We believe it is critical for us to maintain our product leadership position and further increase the strength of our brand and reputation to drive revenue growth. We developed Confluent Cloud, our cloud-native SaaS offering, in 2017 to capitalize on the existing demand for a fully-managed cloud service for Apache Kafka. Confluent Cloud has grown rapidly since launch, as organizations have been making significant investments in digital infrastructure with the goal of both driving efficiencies across their businesses, and better leveraging the data that powers their processes and customer experiences. In addition, we continue to release new product enhancements and features to simplify application development and real-time analytics and enhance security and data governance. We intend to continue investing in our engineering capabilities and marketing activities to maintain our strong position within the developer community. Our results of operations may fluctuate as we make these investments to drive increased customer adoption and usage. Increasing Adoption of Confluent Cloud We believe our cloud-native Confluent Cloud offering represents an important growth opportunity for our business. Organizations are increasingly looking for a fully-managed offering to seamlessly leverage data in motion across a variety of environments. In some cases, customers that have been self-managing deployments through Confluent Platform subsequently have become Confluent Cloud customers. We offer customers a free cloud trial and a pay-as-you-go arrangement to encourage adoption and usage over time. We will continue to leverage our cloud-native differentiation to drive our growth. We expect Confluent Clouds contribution to our subscription revenue to increase over time. Our Confluent Cloud revenue increased from $31.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 to $94.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, representing year-over-year growth of 200%, and from $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 to $31.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, representing year-over-year growth of 117%. Growing Our Customer Base and Extending Our Global Reach We are intensely focused on continuing to grow our customer base. We have invested and will continue to invest in our sales and marketing efforts and developer community outreach, which are critical to driving customer acquisition. We historically focused on large enterprise customers with significant expansion opportunities and built a go-to-market motion around this approach. As we grew our cloud offering and created more self-serve opportunities, we have significantly broadened our reach of customers and are able to attract a greater array of customers. This is evidenced by our significant increase in customer count in recent years, driven by Confluent Cloud customers. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a number of factors, including our success in recruiting and scaling our sales and marketing organization, our ability to accelerate ramp time of our sales force, the impact of marketing efforts to enhance our brand, and competitive dynamics in our target markets. We had approximately 3,470, 2,100, and 820 customers as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively, spanning organizations of all sizes and industries. Our customer count treats affiliated entities with the same parent organization as a single customer and includes pay-as-you-go customers. During the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, 36%, 34%, and 32% of our total revenue came from outside of the United States, respectively. Retaining and Expanding Revenue from Existing Customers Our business model is driven by customer renewals and increasing existing customer subscriptions over time, referred to as land-and-expand. We believe we have significant opportunities to increase our revenue as customers expand their use of our offering in connection with migrating more data to the public cloud, identifying new use cases, and realizing the benefits of data in motion. Our ability to retain and expand revenue from existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including the impact of existing customers becoming a larger portion of our overall customer base, large initial deal sizes that incorporate potential growth, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, the initial impact of existing customers transitioning to our usage-based Confluent Cloud offering, customer satisfaction with our subscriptions and services, loss of large customers including the timing of any such loss, and the mix of commercial and enterprise customers, among other things. 71 Table of Contents Investing in Growth and Scaling our Business We believe our market opportunity is significant, and we are focused on continuing to make substantial investments in our long-term revenue and profitability potential. We believe it is critical to scale across all organizational functions, including our sales and marketing organization, in order to capture this opportunity. Any investments we make in our sales and marketing organization will occur in advance of experiencing the benefits from such investments, and it may be difficult for us to determine if we are efficiently allocating resources within the organization. We intend to continue to invest to grow our business to take advantage of our expansive market opportunity rather than optimize for profitability, margins, or cash flow in the near future. Key Business Metrics We monitor the key business metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions. The calculation of the key metrics discussed below may differ from other similarly titled metrics used by other companies, securities analysts, or investors. Remaining Performance Obligations (RPO) RPO represents the amount of contracted future revenue that has not yet been recognized as of the end of each period, including both deferred revenue that has been invoiced and non-cancelable committed amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. RPO excludes pay-as-you-go arrangements. RPO as a metric is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth because it does not account for the timing of customers consumption or future expansion. RPO may also fluctuate due to a number of factors, including the timing of renewals, average contract terms, seasonality, and dollar amount of customer contracts. Due to these factors, it is important to review RPO in conjunction with revenue and other financial measures disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our RPO was $500.6 million, $261.7 million, and $159.6 million as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. Customers with $100,000 or Greater in Annual Recurring Revenue (ARR) We define ARR as the revenue customers contractually committed to over the following 12 months assuming no increases or reductions in their subscriptions. ARR excludes services and pay-as-you-go arrangements. Similar to RPO, ARR as a metric is not necessarily indicative of future revenue growth because it does not account for the timing of customers consumption or future expansion. Large customer relationships lead to scale and operating leverage in our business model. Compared with smaller customers, large customers present a greater opportunity for us because they have larger budgets, greater potential for migrating more applications over time, and a wider range of potential use cases for data in motion. As a measure of our ability to scale with our customers and attract large enterprises to our offering, we count the number of customers that contributed $100,000 or greater in ARR as of period end. Our customer count may also fluctuate due to acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. We had 734, 513, and 337 customers with $100,000 or greater in ARR as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively. From time to time, we may refine our methodology of calculating ARR. We have included, and continue to include, annualized overages in our calculation of ARR. Customers are contractually committed to pay overages plus the minimum contractually committed amount. Beginning in the third quarter of 2021, we refined our methodology of calculating ARR to only include overages above the contractually committed ARR, to align with how our management assesses ARR internally. This change in methodology had an immaterial impact to historical amounts presented, which have not been retroactively adjusted. 72 Table of Contents Dollar-Based Net Retention Rate (NRR) We calculate our dollar-based NRR as of a period end by starting with the ARR from the cohort of all customers as of 12 months prior to such period end, or Prior Period Value. We then calculate the ARR from these same customers as of the current period end, or Current Period Value, which includes any growth in the value of subscriptions and is net of contraction or attrition over the prior 12 months. Services and pay-as-you-go arrangements are excluded from the calculation of ARR. We then divide the Current Period Value by the Prior Period Value to arrive at our dollar-based NRR. The dollar-based NRR includes the effect, on a dollar-weighted value basis, of our subscriptions that expand, renew, contract, or attrit, but excludes ARR from new customers in the current period. Our dollar-based NRR is subject to adjustments for acquisitions, consolidations, spin-offs, and other market activity. We believe that our dollar-based NRR provides useful information about the evolution of our existing customers and our future growth prospects. Our dollar-based NRR was over 130% as of December 31, 2021, demonstrating our ability to expand within existing customers. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, services. Subscription Revenue . Our subscription revenue consists of revenue from term-based licenses and post-contract customer support, maintenance, and upgrades, referred to together as PCS, which we refer to as Confluent Platform, and our SaaS offering, which we refer to as Confluent Cloud. We recognize a portion of the revenue from our term-based license subscriptions at a point in time, upon delivery and transfer of control of the underlying license to the customer, which is typically the effective start date. Revenue from PCS, which represents a substantial majority of the revenue from our term-based license subscriptions, is recognized ratably over the contract term. The majority of our revenue from Confluent Cloud for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 was based on usage-based minimum commitments and is recognized on a usage basis, as usage represents a direct measurement of the value to the customer of the subscription transferred as of a particular date relative to the total value to be delivered over the term of the contract. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the majority of our revenue from Confluent Cloud was derived from contracts that are not usage-based, with revenue from these contracts recognized ratably over the non-cancelable term of the subscription for such contracts, as our usage-based offering for Confluent Cloud became available in late 2019. Our subscriptions primarily have one-year terms, and are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable. We also provide pay-as-you-go arrangements, which consist of month-to-month SaaS contracts. These arrangements have historically represented an immaterial portion of our subscription revenue. Services Revenue . Services revenue consists of revenue from professional services and education services, which are generally sold on a time-and-materials basis. Revenue for professional services and education services is recognized as these services are delivered. We expect our total revenue may vary from period to period based on, among other things, the timing and size of new subscriptions, the rate of customer renewals and expansions, fluctuations in customer consumption of our usage-based offering, delivery of professional services, ramp time and productivity of our salesforce, the impact of significant transactions, and seasonality. Cost of Revenue Cost of Subscription Revenue . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for employees associated with customer support and maintenance, third-party cloud infrastructure costs, amortization of internal-use software, and allocated overhead costs for information technology, facilities, and recruiting. We expect our cost of subscription revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our subscription revenue increases. 73 Table of Contents Cost of Services Revenue . Cost of services revenue primarily includes personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, for employees associated with our professional services and education services, costs of third-party contractors, and allocated overhead. We expect our cost of services revenue to increase in absolute dollars as our services revenue increases. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross Profit . Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross Margin . Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the average sales price of our subscriptions and services, changes in our revenue mix, including the mix of revenue between our Confluent Platform, Confluent Cloud, and service offerings, timing and amount of usage of third-party cloud infrastructure resources, and infrastructure optimization. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each category of operating expenses. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs. Research and Development . Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, net of capitalized amounts, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our research and development organization, contractor and professional services fees, and allocated overhead. We expect our research and development expenses will continue to increase in absolute dollars as our business grows and we continue to invest in our offering. Sales and Marketing . Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, sales commissions, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation, costs related to marketing programs, amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, which consist of sales commissions and the associated payroll taxes, travel-related costs, and allocated overhead. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, corporate communications, and brand-building and developer-community activities. We expect our sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars over time and continue to be our largest operating expense for the foreseeable future as we expand our sales force, increase our marketing resources, and expand into new markets. General and Administrative . General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation for administrative functions including finance, human resources, and legal, professional fees, software and subscription services dedicated for use by our general and administrative functions, and allocated overhead. As a result of our IPO, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur additional expenses to operate as a public company, including costs to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange, costs related to compliance and reporting obligations, and increased expenses for investor relations and professional services. As discussed in Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, we also recognized non-cash expense of $13.3 million related to the charitable donation of our Class A common stock to Confluent.org in June 2021. We expect that our general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars as our business grows. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest earned on our cash equivalents and marketable securities. 74 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts on marketable securities, interest expense from amortization of debt issuance costs, gains and losses from foreign currency transactions, and realized gains and losses on marketable securities. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets because we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 347,099 $ 208,633 $ 130,206 Services 40,765 27,944 19,599 Total revenue 387,864 236,577 149,805 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1)(2) 94,860 49,283 28,395 Services (1)(2) 42,432 26,193 20,974 Total cost of revenue 137,292 75,476 49,369 Gross profit 250,572 161,101 100,436 Operating expenses: Research and development (1)(2) 161,925 105,399 58,090 Sales and marketing (1)(2) 319,331 166,361 115,792 General and administrative (1)(2) 108,936 122,516 24,662 Total operating expenses 590,192 394,276 198,544 Operating loss (339,620 ) (233,175 ) (98,108 ) Interest income 2,020 4,113 2,494 Other (expense) income, net (2,027 ) (973 ) 567 Loss before income taxes (339,627 ) (230,035 ) (95,047 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 3,174 (207 ) (5 ) Net loss $ (342,801 ) $ (229,828 ) $ (95,042 ) 75 Table of Contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 12,571 $ 2,572 $ 1,161 Cost of revenue - services 5,418 1,745 994 Research and development 49,051 33,755 6,268 Sales and marketing 55,506 14,734 6,545 General and administrative 33,078 90,535 3,649 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 155,624 $ 143,341 * $ 18,617 *In connection with a tender offer and secondary sales of our common stock and convertible founder stock, stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 included $111.9 million of expense related to the amount paid in excess of the estimated fair value of common stock as of the date of the transactions. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. (2) Includes employer taxes on employee stock transactions as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in thousands) Cost of revenue - subscription $ 636 $ 9 $ - Cost of revenue - services 377 16 1 Research and development 2,278 81 20 Sales and marketing 4,266 271 64 General and administrative 2,532 143 21 Total employer taxes on employee stock transactions $ 10,089 $ 520 $ 106 76 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations data expressed as a percentage of revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Revenue: Subscription 89 % 88 % 87 % Services 11 12 13 Total revenue 100 100 100 Cost of revenue: Subscription 24 21 19 Services 11 11 14 Total cost of revenue 35 32 33 Gross profit 65 68 67 Operating expenses: Research and development 42 45 39 Sales and marketing 82 70 77 General and administrative 28 52 16 Total operating expenses 152 167 132 Operating loss (87 ) (99 ) (65 ) Interest income 1 2 2 Other (expense) income, net (1 ) 0 0 Loss before income taxes (87 ) (97 ) (63 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1 0 0 Net loss (88 )% (97 )% (63 )% Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 Revenue Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Subscription $ 347,099 $ 208,633 $ 138,466 66% Services 40,765 27,944 12,821 46% Total revenue $ 387,864 $ 236,577 $ 151,287 64% Subscription revenue increased by $138.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in revenue was primarily from sales to existing customers and the remaining increase was attributable to sales to new customers. Sales to new customers represent the revenue recognized from customers acquired in the 12 months prior to each quarter end within the year ended December 31, 2021. A further indication of our ability to expand from existing customers is through our dollar-based net retention rate of over 130% as of December 31, 2021. Confluent Platform and Confluent Cloud contributed 73% and 27% of our subscription revenue during the year ended December 31, 2021, respectively, compared to 85% and 15% during the year ended December 31, 2020, respectively. Services revenue increased by $12.8 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This was primarily due to an increase in delivery of professional services as we expanded our professional services organization to help our customers further realize the benefits of our offering. 77 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue Subscription $ 94,860 $ 49,283 $ 45,577 92% Services 42,432 26,193 16,239 62% Total cost of revenue $ 137,292 $ 75,476 $ 61,816 82% Gross profit $ 250,572 $ 161,101 $ 89,471 56% Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 Gross margin Subscription 73% 76% Services (4)% 6% Total gross margin 65% 68% Cost of subscription revenue increased by $45.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $15.7 million in personnel-related costs (excluding stock-based compensation expense) and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount, an increase of $14.1 million in third-party cloud infrastructure costs, and an increase of $10.0 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily due to increased headcount, equity awards granted to existing employees, and to a lesser extent, the 2021 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the 2021 ESPP ), which became effective in connection with our IPO. Cost of services revenue increased by $16.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $8.1 million in personnel-related costs (excluding stock-based compensation expense) and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount, and an increase of $3.7 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily due to increased headcount, equity awards granted to existing employees, and to a lesser extent, the 2021 ESPP. The increase in cost of services revenue was also due to an increase of $3.5 million in third-party contractors who supplemented our services delivery team. Our subscription gross margin decreased primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense, higher personnel-related costs, and the change in our revenue mix, partially offset by economies of scale resulting from increased efficiency and optimization of our infrastructure. Our services gross margin decreased primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense and higher third-party contractor expense. Research and Development Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 161,925 $ 105,399 $ 56,526 54% Percentage of revenue 42% 45% 78 Table of Contents Research and development expenses increased by $56.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $32.4 million in personnel-related costs (excluding stock-based compensation expense) and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount, and an increase of $15.3 million in stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts capitalized. The increase in stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts capitalized, was due to increased headcount, equity awards granted to existing employees, and to a lesser extent, the 2021 ESPP, partially offset by $23.9 million of stock-based compensation expense related to a tender offer and a secondary sale of our common and convertible founder stock that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2020. In the tender offer and secondary sales transactions, we facilitated sales by directors, employees, and non-employees to existing and new investors at a per share purchase price in excess of estimated fair value. See Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. The increase in research and development expenses was also due to an increase of $3.6 million of third-party cloud infrastructure expenses incurred in developing our platform, and an increase of $2.2 million of employer taxes on employee stock transactions. Sales and Marketing Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 319,331 $ 166,361 $ 152,970 92% Percentage of revenue 82% 70% Sales and marketing expenses increased by $153.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $71.9 million in personnel-related costs (excluding stock-based compensation expense) and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount, and an increase of $40.8 million in stock-based compensation expense. The increase in stock-based compensation expense was primarily due to increased headcount, equity awards granted to existing employees, and to a lesser extent, the 2021 ESPP, partially offset by $3.5 million of stock-based compensation expense related to the tender offer that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2020 described under Research and Development. The increase in sales and marketing expenses was also due to an increase of $16.3 million in advertising costs and marketing programs, an increase of $10.7 million of amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, and an increase of $4.0 million of employer taxes on employee stock transactions. General and Administrative Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 108,936 $ 122,516 $ (13,580 ) (11)% Percentage of revenue 28% 52% General and administrative expenses decreased by $13.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. This decrease was primarily due to an overall decrease of $57.5 million of stock-based compensation expense as a result of $83.9 million of stock-based compensation expense related to the tender offer and secondary sales that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2020 described under Research and Development, partially offset by increases in stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount, equity awards granted to existing employees, and to a lesser extent, the 2021 ESPP, as well as $3.8 million of stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based options, for which the performance-based vesting condition was satisfied upon the effectiveness of the IPO. The decrease in general and administrative expenses was partially offset by an increase of $19.1 million in personnel-related costs (excluding stock-based compensation expense) and allocated overhead costs driven by increased headcount, an increase of $13.3 million associated with the charitable donation of our Class A common stock upon the consummation of the IPO, an increase of $5.9 million in professional services fees and other expenses to operate as a public company, and an increase of $2.4 million of employer taxes on employee stock transactions . 79 Table of Contents Interest Income Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Interest income $ 2,020 $ 4,113 $ (2,093 ) (51)% Interest income decreased by $2.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lower returns on marketable securities. Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Other expense, net $ (2,027 ) $ (973 ) $ (1,054 ) 108% Other expense, net increased by $1.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to losses from foreign currency transactions and interest expense from amortization of debt issuance costs. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, Change 2021 2020 $ % (in thousands, except percentages) Loss before income taxes $ (339,627 ) $ (230,035 ) $ (109,592 ) (48)% Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ 3,174 $ (207 ) $ 3,381 1633% Effective tax rate (0.9)% 0.1% The provision for income taxes during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to an increase in foreign taxes as we continued our global expansion and the establishment of the U.K. valuation allowance. During the year ended December 31, 2021, based on the weight of positive and negative evidence, we established a valuation allowance on its U.K. net deferred tax assets resulting in a tax expense of $1.1 million. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. and U.K. deferred tax assets. The most significant component of our recorded tax expense is current cash taxes in various foreign jurisdictions. The cash tax expenses are impacted by each jurisdictions individual tax rates, laws on the timing of recognition of income and deductions, and availability of net operating losses and tax credits. Our effective tax rate might fluctuate to the extent earnings are lower in countries that have lower statutory rates or higher in countries that have higher statutory rates. Liquidity and Capital Resources To date, we have financed operations primarily through proceeds received from issuances of equity and debt securities and payments received from our customers. In June 2021, we completed our IPO, which resulted in proceeds of $786.6 million, net of underwriting discounts and commissions. In December 2021, we issued $1.1 billion aggregate principal amount of 0% convertible senior notes due 2027 (the 2027 Notes), including the exercise in full of the initial purchasers option to purchase up to an additional $100.0 million principal amount of the 2027 Notes, in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act. The net proceeds from the issuance of the 2027 Notes, after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and commissions and debt issuance costs, were $1,080.5 million . See Note 6, Convertible Senior Notes , to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. 80 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $2,016.0 million. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of bank deposits, U.S. treasury securities, money market funds, and commercial paper. Our marketable securities consist of corporate notes and bonds, commercial paper, U.S. agency obligations, U.S. treasury securities, and municipal bonds. We believe that existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to fund our short-term and long-term operating and capital needs, including our purchase obligations primarily related to our non-cancelable agreements for third-party cloud infrastructure, and operating lease commitments, net of sublease receipts, primarily related to our office space. We have generated significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations. As of December 31, 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $748.9 million. We expect to continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flows from operations in the future and may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operations, and the continuing market acceptance of our subscriptions and services. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (105,060 ) $ (82,057 ) $ (68,834 ) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (400,583 ) $ (176,859 ) $ 35,641 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 1,844,514 $ 276,758 $ 13,432 Cash Flows from Operating Activities We generally invoice our customers annually in advance for our term-based licenses and either annually in advance or monthly in arrears for our SaaS offering. Our largest source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. We have in the past and expect in the future to experience seasonality, with the fourth quarter historically being our strongest quarter for new customer sales, renewals, and expansion as a result of large enterprise buying patterns. Accordingly, the operating cash flow benefit from increased collections from our customers generally occurs in the subsequent one to two quarters after billing. We expect seasonality, timing of billings, and collections from our customers to have a material impact on our cash flow from operating activities from period to period. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel-related expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure costs, sales and marketing expenses, and overhead expenses. Cash used in operating activities of $105.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of our net loss of $342.8 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $215.9 million, and net cash inflows of $21.9 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges included $155.6 million of stock-based compensation expense, net of amounts capitalized, $26.7 million of amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $13.3 million of Class A common stock charitable donation expense, and $11.0 million of non-cash operating lease costs. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were an $87.3 million increase in deferred revenue corresponding with our increased sales and a $61.1 million increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities due to timing of payments, increased headcount, growth in our business, and employee contributions under the 2021 ESPP, partially offset by a $57.9 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs due to our increased sales, a $32.5 million increase in accounts receivable due to overall growth of our sales and our expanding customer base , and a $31.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets primarily driven by prepaid third-party cloud infrastructure costs and prepaid insurance as a result of becoming a public company . 81 Table of Contents Cash used in operating activities of $82.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily consisted of our net loss of $229.8 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $173.5 million, and net cash outflows of $25.7 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Our non-cash charges included $143.3 million of stock-based compensation expense ($111.9 million of which related to a tender offer and secondary sales transactions involving purchase prices in excess of estimated fair value of the shares sold), net of amounts capitalized, $16.0 million of amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, and $11.9 million of non-cash operating lease costs. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $41.6 million increase in accounts receivable due to our increased sales and expanding customer base, and a $38.1 million increase in deferred contract acquisition costs due to our increased sales. These amounts were partially offset by a $64.1 million increase in deferred revenue corresponding with our increased sales. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities of $400.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to purchases of marketable securities of $663.6 million, capitalized internal-use software development costs of $5.3 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $3.6 million, partially offset by maturities of marketable securities of $271.9 million. Cash used in investing activities of $176.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to purchases of marketable securities of $329.6 million, capitalized internal-use software development costs of $3.6 million, and purchases of property and equipment of $1.0 million, partially offset by sales and maturities of marketable securities totaling $157.4 million. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities of $1,844.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily due to $1,081.3 million in proceeds from the issuance of the 2027 Notes, net of issuance costs, $786.6 million in proceeds from our IPO, net of underwriting discounts and commissions, and $70.7 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercises of stock options, net of repurchases, partially offset by $91.0 million used to purchase capped calls and $3.1 million of payments of deferred offering costs. Cash provided by financing activities of $276.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to $259.8 million in net proceeds from the issuance of our Series E redeemable convertible preferred stock and $17.1 million in proceeds from the issuance of common stock upon exercises of stock options, net of repurchases. 82 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments Convertible Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.1 billion outstanding principal associated with our 2027 Notes. See Note 6, Convertible Senior Notes , to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Operating Leases. Our operating lease commitments, net of sublease receipts, relate primarily to our office space. As of December 31, 2021, we had fixed lease payment obligations of $44.9 million, with $10.5 million expected to be paid within 12 months and the remainder thereafter. See Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies , to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Purchase Obligations. As of December 31, 2021, our purchase obligations were $471.3 million, with $71.0 million expected to be paid within 12 months and the remainder thereafter. Our purchase obligations primarily relate to non-cancelable agreements for third-party cloud infrastructure agreements, under which we are granted access to use certain cloud services. See Note 7, Commitments and Contingencies , to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. In January 2022, we entered into an amended third-party cloud infrastructure agreement that includes a non-cancelable commitment of $150.0 million over the next five years through January 2027. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows will be affected. We believe that the accounting policies described below involve a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue from the sale of subscriptions and services. Subscription revenue consists of revenue from term-based licenses that include post-contract customer support, maintenance, and upgrades, referred to together as PCS, which we refer to as Confluent Platform, and our SaaS offering, which we refer to as Confluent Cloud. Confluent Cloud customers may purchase subscriptions either without a minimum commitment contract on a month-to-month basis, which we refer to as pay-as-you-go, or under a usage-based minimum commitment contract of at least one year in duration, in which customers commit to a fixed minimum monetary amount at specified per-usage rates. Our pay-as-you-go arrangements have historically represented an immaterial portion of revenue. We primarily enter into subscription contracts with one-year terms, and subscription contracts are generally non-cancelable and non-refundable, although customers can terminate for breach if we materially fail to perform. Services revenue consists of revenue from professional services and education services. We generate sales of our subscriptions and services through our sales teams, self-service channel, and partner ecosystem, including the major cloud provider marketplaces. The consolidated financial statements reflect our accounting for revenue in accordance with ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , or ASC 606. Under ASC 606, we recognize revenue when customers obtain control of promised subscriptions or services in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those subscriptions or services. In determining the appropriate amount of revenue to be recognized as we fulfill our obligations under each of our agreements, the following steps are performed: 83 Table of Contents (i) identification of the contract with a customer We generally contract with customers through order forms, which are governed by master sales agreements, and through cloud provider marketplaces. We determine that we have a contract with a customer when the contract is approved, each partys rights regarding the subscriptions or services to be transferred and the payment terms for the services can be identified, we have determined the customer has the ability and intent to pay, and the contract has commercial substance. We apply judgment in determining the customers ability and intent to pay, which is based on a variety of factors, including the customers historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, credit, reputation, and financial or other information pertaining to the customer. When a contract is entered into, we evaluate whether the contract is part of a larger arrangement and should be accounted for with other contracts, and whether the combined or single contract includes more than one performance obligation. (ii) identification of the performance obligations in the contract Performance obligations are identified based on the subscriptions and services that will be transferred to the customer that are both (1) capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the subscriptions or services either on their own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and (2) are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the subscriptions and services is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. To the extent a contract includes multiple promised subscriptions or services, we apply judgment to determine whether promised subscriptions or services are capable of being distinct and distinct in the context of the contract. If these criteria are not met, or if performance obligations follow the same pattern of recognition, the promised subscriptions or services are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. We have concluded that our contracts with customers do not contain warranties that give rise to a separate performance obligation. (iii) measurement of the transaction price The transaction price is the total amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for the subscriptions and services in a contract. The transaction price in a usage-based SaaS contract is typically equal to the minimum commitment in the contract, less any discounts provided. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. Our contracts do not contain a significant financing component. (iv) allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations If a contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. For contracts that contain multiple performance obligations, we allocate the transaction price using a relative standalone selling price, or SSP, allocation based on the SSPs of each performance obligation. Determining the relative SSP for contracts that contain multiple performance obligations is a critical accounting estimate. We establish SSP based on multiple factors, including prices at which we separately sell standalone subscriptions and services. In cases where directly observable standalone sales are not available, such as when license and PCS are not sold on a standalone basis, we establish the SSP by using information such as the historical selling price of performance obligations in similar transactions, market conditions, and our pricing practices, which can require significant judgment and are subject to change based on continuous reevaluation. There is typically more than one SSP for individual subscriptions and services due to the stratification of subscription support tiers and services. We also consider if there are any additional material rights inherent in a contract, and if so, we allocate revenue to the material right as a performance obligation. (v) recognition of revenue when we satisfy each performance obligation We recognize revenue at the time the related performance obligation is satisfied, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those subscriptions or services. We record revenue net of any withholding, value added, or sales tax, as well as any discounts or marketing development funds. 84 Table of Contents Subscription Revenue Our subscription revenue includes revenue from Confluent Platform for licenses sold in conjunction with PCS. The license provides the right to use licensed proprietary software features, which represents significant standalone functionality and is therefore deemed a distinct performance obligation. License revenue is recognized at a point in time, upon delivery and transfer of control of the underlying license to the customer, which is typically the effective start date. Revenue from PCS is based on its continuous pattern of transfer to the customer and therefore is recognized ratably over the contract term. Our subscription revenue also includes revenue from Confluent Cloud for our usage-based minimum commitment and pay-as-you-go offering, which is recognized on a usage basis, as usage represents a direct measurement of the value to the customer of the subscription transferred as of a particular date relative to the total value to be delivered over the term of the contract. For contracts that are not usage-based, revenue from Confluent Cloud is recognized ratably over the non-cancelable contractual term of the arrangement, generally beginning on the date that the service is made available to the customer. Services Revenue Our services revenue includes revenue from professional services and education services, which are generally sold on a time-and-materials basis. We recognize the associated revenue as services are delivered. Deferred Contract Acquisition Costs Sales commissions earned by our sales force and the associated payroll taxes are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Sales commissions for new revenue contracts, including incremental sales to existing customers, are deferred and then amortized over an estimated period of benefit, which we have determined to be five years. To determine the period of benefit, we consider our technology development cycle, the cadence of software releases, the nature of our customer contracts, the duration of customer relationships, and the expected renewal period. Sales commissions for renewal contracts (which are not considered commensurate with sales commissions for new revenue contracts and incremental sales to existing customers) are deferred and then amortized over the renewal contract term. Amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs are included in sales and marketing expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review the carrying amount of deferred contract acquisition costs to determine whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that could impact the period of benefit of these deferred costs. Stock-Based Compensation We record stock-based compensation expense in connection with all stock-based awards, including stock options and restricted stock units (RSUs) granted to employees and non-employees and stock purchase rights granted under the ESPP to employees, based on the fair value of the awards granted. The fair value of each stock option and ESPP right is estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. For awards that vest based only on continuous service, stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Prior to our IPO, we also granted certain awards that had both a service-based and a performance-based vesting condition. Stock-based compensation expense for such awards is recognized using the accelerated attribution method over the requisite service period when it is probable the performance-based vesting condition will be achieved. The performance-based vesting condition was satisfied upon the sale of our common stock in a firm commitment underwritten public offering. If an award contains a provision whereby vesting is accelerated upon a change in control, we recognize stock-based compensation expense on a straight-line basis, as a change in control is considered to be outside of our control and is not considered probable until it occurs. Forfeitures are accounted for as they occur. 85 Table of Contents The Black-Scholes option-pricing model requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, including the fair value of the underlying common stock, the expected term of the option, the expected volatility of the price of our common stock, risk-free interest rates, and the expected dividend yield of our common stock. The assumptions used in our option-pricing model represent managements best estimates. These estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. If factors change and different assumptions are used, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. These assumptions are estimated as follows: Fair value of the underlying common stock. Prior to our IPO, our board of directors considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our common stock at each meeting in which awards were approved. After our IPO, the fair value of our common stock is determined by the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant, which is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Expected term. We determine the expected term for stock options that have only service-based vesting conditions based on the period the stock options are expected to be outstanding using the simplified method, calculated as the average of the time-to-vesting and the contractual life of the options. For other option grants, we estimate the expected term using historical data on employee exercises and post-vesting employment termination behavior, considering the contractual life of the award. Expected volatility. We derive the expected volatility at the grant date from the average historical volatilities of public companies within our industry over a period equal to the expected term of the options. Risk-free interest rate. We use the implied yield available on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon notes with maturities equivalent to the options expected term. Expected dividend yield. We utilize a dividend yield of zero, as we do not currently issue dividends, nor do we expect to do so in the future. The following table summarizes the weighted-average assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options granted during the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 2019 Expected term (in years) 6.17 6.17 6.04 Expected volatility 66.3 % 68.3 % 59.0 % Risk-free interest rate 1.1 % 0.5 % 1.8 % Expected dividend yield 0 % 0 % 0 % Common Stock Valuations Prior to the IPO, the fair value of the common stock underlying our stock-based awards was determined by our board of directors, with input from management and contemporaneous independent third-party valuations. We believe that our board of directors had the relevant experience and expertise to determine the fair value of our common stock. Given the absence of a public trading market of our common stock, and in accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Aid, Valuation of Privately-Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation, our board of directors exercised reasonable judgment and considered numerous objective and subjective factors to determine the best estimate of the fair value of our common stock at each grant date. These factors include: the prices, rights, preferences, and privileges of our redeemable convertible preferred stock relative to those of our common stock; 86 Table of Contents the prices paid for common or redeemable convertible preferred stock sold to third-party investors by us and prices paid in tender offers or secondary transactions; lack of marketability of our common stock; our operating and financial performance; current business conditions and projections; hiring of key personnel and the experience of our management; the history of the company and the introduction of new products; our stage of development; likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as an initial public offering, a merger, or acquisition of our company given prevailing market conditions; the market performance of comparable publicly traded companies; and U.S. and global capital market conditions. The fair value of our common stock was determined using various valuation methods, including a combination of the income and market approach. The income approach estimated value based on the expectation of future cash flows that we would generate. These future cash flows were discounted to their present values using a discount rate that was derived from an analysis of the cost of capital of comparable publicly traded companies in our industry or those with similar business operations and was adjusted to reflect the risks inherent in our cash flows. The market approach estimated value based on a comparison of our company to comparable public companies in a similar line of business. From the comparable companies, a representative market value multiple was determined and then applied to our financial forecasts to estimate the value of our company. For each valuation, the fair value, or equity value, of our business determined by the income and market approaches was then allocated to the common stock using either the option-pricing method, or OPM, or a hybrid of the probability-weighted expected return method, or PWERM, and OPM methods. Our valuations prior to December 31, 2020 were allocated based on the OPM. Beginning December 31, 2020, our valuations were allocated based on a hybrid method of the PWERM and the OPM. Application of these approaches and methodologies involves the use of estimates, judgments, and assumptions that are highly complex and subjective, such as those regarding our expected future revenue, expenses, and future cash flows, discount rates, market multiples, the selection of comparable public companies, and the probability of and timing associated with possible future events. 87 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and accounting pronouncements not yet adopted. Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. 88 Table of Contents Ite m 7A.