Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as aim, estimate, plan, project, forecast, goal, intend, will, expect, anticipate, believe, seek, target or other similar expressions that predict or indicate future events or trends or that are not statements of historical matters. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding projections, estimates and forecasts of revenue and other financial and performance metrics, projections of market opportunity and expectations, the Companys ability to scale and grow its business, source clean and renewable energy, the advantages and expected growth of the Company and the Companys ability to source and retain talent. These statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and are based on various assumptions, whether or not identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and on the current expectations of the Companys management. These forward-looking statements are not intended to serve, and must not be relied on by any investor, as a guarantee, an assurance, a prediction or a definitive statement of fact or probability. Actual events and circumstances are difficult or impossible to predict and will differ from assumptions. Many actual events and circumstances are beyond the control of the Company. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, known or unknown, that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated or anticipated. These risks, assumptions and uncertainties include those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materializes, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. There may be additional risks that the Company could not presently know or that the Company currently believes are immaterial that could also cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements reflect the Companys expectations, plans or forecasts of future events and views as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be relied upon as representing the Companys assessments as of any date subsequent to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company anticipates that subsequent events and developments will cause the Companys assessments to change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Item 1. Business Overview Core Scientific, Inc. (we, us, our, the Company, Core Scientific, or Core) is a best-in-class large-scale operator of dedicated, purpose-built facilities for digital asset mining and a premier provider of blockchain infrastructure, software solutions and services. We employ our own large fleet of computers (miners), primarily manufactured by Bitmain Technologies Limited (Bitmain), to earn bitcoin for our own account and provide hosting services for large bitcoin mining customers at our seven operational data centers in Georgia (2), Kentucky (1), North Carolina (1), North Dakota (1) and Texas (2). We derive the majority of our revenue from earning bitcoin for our own account (self-mining). We began digital asset mining at scale in 2018 and in 2020 became one of the largest North American providers of hosting services for third-party mining customers. As of December 31, 2023, we were one of the largest blockchain data center, digital asset mining and hosting service providers in North America, with an average hourly operating power demand of approximately 592 megawatts (MW) for the year. As of December 31, 2023, we had secured approximately 1,198 MW of contracted power capacity at our sites. We operate in two segments: Mining consisting of bitcoin mining for our own account, and Hosting consisting of our third-party hosting business. Our hosting business provides a full suite of services to digital asset mining customers. As part of these hosting services, we provide deployment, monitoring, troubleshooting, optimization and maintenance of our customers digital asset mining equipment and provide necessary electrical power and repair and other infrastructure services necessary to operate, maintain and efficiently earn digital assets. Our business strategy is to increase our capacity, efficiency and productivity to drive cash flow, strengthen our balance sheet and invest in our mining businesses and adjacent market opportunities. We intend to strategically develop the infrastructure necessary to support business growth and profitability, and pursue adjacent high-value compute opportunities that lever our mining expertise and capabilities. 3 Our existing, completed facilities lever our specialized construction proficiency by employing high-density, low-cost engineering and power designs. Our proprietary thermodynamic system manages heat and airflow to deliver best-in-class uptime and, ultimately, increasing earned mining rewards to us and our customers. We have accumulated expertise in the installation, operation, optimization and repair of digital mining equipment. We continue to refine and develop our data center design and technology solutions to optimize our data center and mining operations with the knowledge gained from our digital asset mining experience. Our approach to data center design enables us to deliver efficiency at scale. Since energizing our first large-scale data center in Marble, North Carolina, we have evolved multiple generations of infrastructure design to optimize performance, and most recently opened our fourth-generation data center in Denton, Texas. Our proprietary technology uniquely enables our scaled and geographically distributed operation. We believe our expertise in digital asset mining can be applied favorably to the design, development and operation oflarge-scale data centers configured to optimize the performance of specialized computers for other specific, high-value applications such as cloud computing, machine learning and artificial intelligence. We intend to look for opportunities to expand our business into these areas using our knowledge, expertise and existing infrastructure where favorable market opportunities exist. Although our business operations date back to 2018 (and was known as Core Scientific (Legacy Core)), the current corporate entity operating our business was formerly known as Power & Digital Infrastructure Acquisition Corp. (XPDI) which was a special purpose acquisition corporation formed for the purpose of acquiring an operating business such as Legacy Core. On July 20, 2021, XPDI, Core Scientific Holding Co., and XPDI Merger Sub entered into a merger agreement (the Merger Agreement) which provided for business combination transactions (the Business Combination) pursuant to which the business of Legacy Core was combined with XPDI and XPDI changed its name to Core Scientific, Inc. (New Core or the Company). XPDIs stockholders approved the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination at a special meeting of stockholders held on January 19, 2022. See Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information about the Business Combination. Emergence from Bankruptcy On December 21, 2022, the Company and certain of its affiliates (collectively, the Debtors) filed voluntary petitions (the Chapter 11 Cases) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas (the Bankruptcy Court) seeking relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code). The Chapter 11 Cases were jointly administered under Case No. 22-90341. On January 15, 2024, the Debtors filed with the Bankruptcy Court the Fourth Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Core Scientific, Inc. and its Affiliated Debtors (with Technical Modifications) (the Plan of Reorganization), and on January 16, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan of Reorganization (the Confirmation Order). On January 23, 2024 (the Effective Date), the conditions to the effectiveness of the Plan of Reorganization were satisfied or waived and the Company emerged from bankruptcy. On the Effective Date, in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization, the Company satisfied and extinguished claims in the Chapter 11 cases through the issuance of (i) new common stock (New Common Stock), (ii) new warrants (New Warrants), (iii) contingent value rights (CVRs), (iv) new secured convertible notes due 2029 (New Secured Convertible Notes), and (v) new secured notes due 2028 (New Secured Notes). In addition, on the Effective Date, a new Board of Directors (the Board of Directors) was appointed by the Companys debt and equity holders and approved by stakeholders as part of the Plan of Reorganization. For more detailed information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, refer to Note 3 Chapter 11 Filing and Other Related Matters and Note 17 Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Blockchain and Bitcoin Blockchains are decentralized digital ledgers that record and enable secure peer-to-peer transactions without third-party intermediaries. Blockchains enable the existence of bitcoin by allowing participants to confirm transactions without the need for a central certifying authority. When a participant requests a transaction, a peer-to-peer computer network consisting of nodes validates the transaction and the users status using known algorithms. After the transaction is verified, it is combined with other transactions to create a new block of data for the ledger. The new block is added to the existing blockchain in a way that is permanent and unalterable, thereby completing the transaction. As each new block refers back to and connects with the immediately prior solved block associated with it, the addition of a new block adds to the blockchain in a manner similar to a new link being added to a chain. Bitcoin, known as a cryptocurrency, is a medium of exchange that uses encryption techniques to control the creation of units and to verify the transfer of funds. Consumers use digital assets such as bitcoin because they offer lower cost and faster peer-to-peer 4 payment options without the need to provide personal details. Every single transaction, and the ownership of every single digital asset in circulation, is recorded in the blockchain, which effectively contains a record of all account balances. Companies and individuals engaged in mining use powerful miners that tally digital asset transactions to operate the blockchain. These miners update stored records each time a transaction is made and ensure the authenticity of information. Each account on the blockchain is identified solely by its unique public key, which renders it effectively anonymous, and is secured with its associated private key, which is kept secret, like a password. The combination of private and public cryptographic keys constitutes a secure digital identity in the form of a digital signature, providing strong control of ownership. No single entity owns or operates the network associated with these bitcoin. The infrastructure that enables the network is collectively maintained by a decentralized public user base. Because the network operates in a decentralized manner, it does not rely on governmental authorities or financial institutions to create, transmit or determine the value of bitcoin. Rather, value is determined by market factors, primarily the supply and demand for the units, with prices being set in transfers by mutual agreement or through barter among transacting parties, as well as by the number of counterparties that may accept bitcoin. As bitcoin transactions can be broadcast to the network by any users blockchain and bitcoin can be transferred without the involvement of intermediaries or third parties, there are currently little to no transaction costs in direct peer-to-peer transactions involving bitcoin. Bitcoin can be converted to fiat currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, at rates determined on various exchanges. Bitcoin prices are quoted on various exchanges and demonstrate volatility. The user community has viewed bitcoin to offer several advantages over traditional (also known as fiat) currency, including: Acting as a fraud deterrent, as digital assets recorded on a blockchain are virtually impossible to counterfeit, reverse, or modify; Immediate settlement; Elimination of counterparty risk; No requirement for a trusted intermediary; Lower transaction fees; Identity theft prevention; Universal accessibility; Transaction verification and confirmation processes that prevent double spending; Decentralized mining at any time of day without any central authority (governments or financial institutions); and Universal value. Based on available information, we believe the market for bitcoin has continued to grow. Bitcoins daily exchange volume has grown from as low as $1 million in January 2017 to as high as $510 million in December 2023 according to blockchain.com. The initial exchange rate recorded on October 5, 2009, for a single bitcoin, equaled $0.000764. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the trading price of one bitcoin ranged from a high of $44,167 in December 2023 to a low of $16,625 in January 2023. As of March 7, 2024, the published trading price of one bitcoin was $66,925. Bitcoin Mining In a proof-of-work approach such as bitcoin, specialized computers, or miners, power and secure blockchains by solving complex cryptographic algorithms to validate transactions on specific digital asset networks. In order to add blocks to the blockchain, a miner must map an input data set consisting of the existing blockchain, plus a block of the most recent digital asset transactions and an arbitrary number called a nonce, to an output data set of a predetermined length using the SHA256 cryptographic hash algorithm. Solving these algorithms is also known as solving or completing a block. In the Bitcoin network, solving a block results in a reward of bitcoin in a process known as mining. These rewards of bitcoin currently can be sold profitably when the sale price of bitcoin exceeds the cost of mining, which generally consists of the cost of mining hardware, the cost of the electrical power to operate the machine, and other facility and overhead costs associated with housing, operating and supporting the equipment. Mining processing power is generally referred to as hashing power. A hash is the computation run by mining hardware in support of the blockchain. A miners hash rate refers to the rate at which it is capable of solving such computations per second. Miners with a higher rated hash rate when operating at maximum efficiency have a higher chance of completing a block in the blockchain and receiving a digital asset reward than those operating at a lower hash rate or with lower efficiency. Currently, the 5 likelihood that an individual mining participant acting alone will solve a block and be awarded a digital asset reward is extremely low. As a result, to maximize the opportunities to receive a reward, most large-scale mining organizations have joined with other similar operators in mining pools where the computing power of each pool participant is coordinated to complete the block on the blockchain and mining rewards are distributed to participants in accordance with the rules of the mining pool. Fees payable to the operator of the pool vary, but typically represent as much as 0.01% to 2% of the reward earned and are deducted from the amounts earned by each pool participant. Mining pools are subject to various risks including communication connection issues, outages and other disruptions that can impact the quantity of digital assets earned by participants. Mathematically Controlled Supply The method for creating new bitcoin is mathematically controlled in a manner such that the supply of bitcoin grows at a limited rate, based on a pre-determined schedule. The number of bitcoin awarded for solving a new block is automatically halved every 210,000 blocks. This means every block up to and including block 210,000 produced a reward of 50 bitcoin, while blocks beginning with 210,001 produced a reward of 25 bitcoin. Since blocks are mined on average every 10 minutes, 144 blocks are mined per day, on average. At 144 blocks per day, 210,000 blocks take four years to mine, on average. The current fixed reward for solving a new block is 6.25 bitcoin per block and is expected to decrease by half to become 3.125 bitcoin per block in April 2024. This deliberately controlled rate of bitcoin creation means that the number of bitcoin in existence will never exceed 21 million unless the Bitcoin networks source code (and the underlying protocol for bitcoin issuance) is altered. Our Operations and Solutions As one of the largest owner operators of infrastructure for digital asset mining in North America, we focus primarily on earning bitcoin through mining and selling the bitcoin generated for cash and activities directly related to growing our mining capabilities (increasing the number of bitcoin mined) and enhancing efficiencies in our operations (reducing our cost to mine).Our growing bitcoin mining operation is focused on the generation of bitcoin by solving complex cryptographic algorithms to validate transactions on the Bitcoin network blockchain, which is commonly referred to as mining. Our bitcoin self-mining activity competes with myriad mining operations throughout the world to complete new blocks in the blockchain and earn the reward in the form of bitcoin. The terms of our debt agreements currently require that we sell our digital assets, including bitcoin, as we receive them, and we typically use the proceeds to fund our growth strategies or for general corporate purposes. We also provide hosting services for large bitcoin mining customers at our seven operational data centers in Georgia (2), Kentucky (1), North Carolina (1), North Dakota (1) and Texas (2). Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2023, we had 286 full-time employees. All of our employees are located in the United States in more than 30 states. We also engage consultants and contractors to supplement our permanent workforce on an as needed basis. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we have not experienced any work stoppages. Core Scientifics employees, along with its mission and values, are the most valuable assets of our Company. Our mission and values are the foundation for our Company culture. More specifically, our mission is to accelerate digital innovation by scaling high-value compute rapidly, efficiently, and responsibly. As for our values, they include: (1) operating with integrity and maintaining the highest standards, and supporting each other as a single team, to ensure our collective success (Team First); (2) acting as owners of the business, in the interest of all stakeholders, holding ourselves and each other accountable for our actions and outcomes (Extreme Ownership); (3) relentlessly seeking to accelerate the worlds digital transformation and improve the way we do business to reduce costs, improve quality and grow (Innovate & Simplify); and (4) seeking to maximize transparency with all our stakeholders to ensure understanding, alignment and constructive dialog (Transparency). Our mission and values reflect who we are and the way our employees interact with one another, our customers, partners, and shareholders. Working together and guided by our mission and values, we are committed to creating a company where everyone is included and respected, and where we support each other in reaching our full potential. Additionally, Core Scientific works diligently to attract and retain top talent from a diverse range of sources in order to meet the current and future demands of our business. Our competitive compensation and benefits offerings in combination with a strong employee value proposition leverages our shared sense of purpose and collaborative working environment as well as our innovative and cutting-edge business helps us attract and retain top talent at our Company. Furthermore, we strive to empower our people to find new and better ways of doing things, and our dynamic business means that careers can develop in exciting and unexpected directions. 6 Segments We have two operating segments: Mining, consisting of bitcoin self-mining, and Hosting, consisting of our third-party hosting business. Our Mining operation segment generates revenue from operating our own mining computers as part of a pool of users that process transactions conducted on one or more blockchain networks. In exchange for this activity, we receive digital assets in the form of bitcoin. Our Hosting operation segment generates revenue through the sale of electricity-based consumption contracts for our hosting services which are recurring in nature. During 2022, our Hosting segment also included sales of mining equipment to customers and was referred to as Hosting and Equipment Sales. We derived equipment sales revenue from our ability to lever our partnerships with leading equipment manufacturers to secure equipment in advance, which we then sold to our customers when they were unable to obtain them otherwise. Mining Equipment We own and host specialized mining computers configured for the purpose of validating transactions on the Bitcoin network. Substantially all of the miners we own and host were manufactured by Bitmain and incorporate application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips specialized to solve blocks on the bitcoin blockchains using the 256-bit secure hashing algorithm (SHA-256) in return for bitcoin digital asset rewards. We have entered into agreements with mining equipment manufacturers to supply mining equipment for our digital asset mining operations. The majority of our purchases are made on multi-month contracts with installment payments due in advance of scheduled deliveries. Delivery schedules have ranged from one month to twelve months. We currently have two active purchase agreements with Bitmain. The first agreement is for the acquisition of Antminer S19J XP miners with a combined exahash of 4.08 or 28,400 miners to be delivered from the fourth quarter of 2023 through early 2024. The second agreement is for the acquisition of Antminer S21 miners with a combined exahash of 2.52 or approximately 12,900 miners to be delivered during the first half of 2024. We improved our average self-mining fleet energy efficiency to 27.94 joules per terahash as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, we are current on our payment commitments under both agreements. As of December 31, 2023, we had deployed approximately 209,100 bitcoin miners, which number consists of approximately 158,000 self-miners and approximately 51,100 hosted miners, which represented 16.9 exahash per second (EH/s) and 6.3 EH/s for self-miners and hosted miners, respectively. Suppliers Mining Equipment Digital asset mining is dependent on specialized digital asset mining hardware employing ASIC chips to solve blocks on blockchains using the 256-bit secure hashing algorithm. Almost all of these miners are produced outside of the United States, mostly in China and Southeast Asia, by a few manufacturers, the largest of which is Bitmain. We have entered into agreements with Bitmain from time to time to supply most of the miners we intend to acquire for our mining operations. These agreements, like those of other miner manufacturers, generally require significant refundable deposits payable months in advance of delivery and additional advance payments in monthly installments thereafter. These agreements also contain other terms and conditions favorable to the manufacturer. Our mining business is dependent upon digital asset mining equipment suppliers such as Bitmain providing an adequate and timely supply of new generation digital asset mining machines at economical prices to enable profitable mining by us and by third-party customers intending to purchase our hosting and other solutions. Power Providers and Facility Development Our in-house power and facility development teams focus on sourcing, evaluating, developing and constructing the facilities where we earn digital assets, primarily bitcoin, through self-mining and host third-party mining equipment. Historically, we have contracted with large electric utility providers to provide a sufficient supply of electricity to power the mining operations in our facilities. We have fixed, variable and interruptible bi-lateral power supply consumption agreements with electric power suppliers at our various facilities. These agreements provide for both firm and interruptible power supply through each providers transmission and distribution systems to dedicated substations owned by the power provider, the local utility or the Company. We value our relationships with our power providers and work to lever our operating capabilities to take advantage of any interruptible programs and cost saving opportunities. 7 The table below summarizes the contracted capacity in megawatts (MW) by facility location and electric utility provider: Electric Utility Providers Contracted Power Capacity (MW) Facility Location Tennessee Valley Authority 150 Calvert City, Kentucky ("Calvert") Murphy Electric Power Board 35 Marble, North Carolina ("Marble 1") Duke Energy 68 Marble, North Carolina ("Marble 2") Dalton Utilities 53 Dalton, Georgia ("Dalton 1 & 2") Dalton Utilities 142 Dalton, Georgia ("Dalton 3") Nodak Electric Cooperative, Inc. 100 Grand Forks, North Dakota ("Grand Forks") Denton Municipal Electric 297 Denton, Texas ("Denton") Texas New-Mexico Power 253 Pecos, Texas ("Cottonwood) Oklahoma Gas & Electric 100 Muskogee, Oklahoma ("Muskogee 1") Total 1,198 Competition We operate in a highly competitive industry with a growing number and scale of participants. Our bitcoin self-mining operations compete with mining operations throughout the world to complete new blocks on the blockchain and earn the reward in the form of bitcoin. We compete on the basis of our total number of miners, the degree of mining difficulty, the efficiency of our mining operations and the fiat value of the mining reward. While miners of bitcoin historically range from individual enthusiasts and entrepreneurs to large public company mining operations and large company mining hosting operations with dedicated data centers, the vast majority of mining is now undertaken and further trending towards large-scale, industrial mining facilities. A mining pool is created when mining participants pool the processing power of their miners over a network and mine transactions together. Rewards are then distributed proportionately to the pool participants based on the work/hash power contributed to solving a block. Our self-mining operations also compete with non-digital asset operations for access to suitable real estate and access to affordable and dependable electric power. In addition to competing to solve new blocks, we compete to acquire new miners, to raise capital, to obtain access to facilities for the location of mining operations, and to develop or acquire new technologies. Our hosting activities compete with a large number of other hosting operations. Our success in our hosting operations depends on our ability to supply hosting space and power, our performance with respect to installation, operation and repair of customer equipment, our ability to obtain replacement parts, the value of our service offering to our customers and the availability of mining equipment. To compete effectively as a hosting provider, we continue to market our services effectively to large scale miners that value our ability to host at scale and who are willing to pay a premium hosting fee for our high up-time and operational expertise. In both our self-mining and hosting activities, we additionally compete with other operations and participants for equity and debt financing since our business is capital intensive. Several public companies (traded in the United States, Canada, and internationally), such as the following, may be considered competitors to the Company: Applied Digital Corp.; Argo Blockchain PLC; Bitdeer Technologies Group; Bit Digital, Inc.; Bitfarms Technologies Ltd. (formerly Blockchain Mining Ltd); Cipher Mining Inc.; 8 Cleanspark, Inc.; Greenidge Generation Holding Inc.; Hive Blockchain Technologies Inc.; Hut 8 Corp. (including the merged operations of U.S. Bitcoin Corp.); Iris Energy Ltd. Marathon Digital Holdings, Inc.; Mawson Infrastructure Group Inc.; Riot Platforms, Inc.; Stronghold Digital Mining, Inc.; and TeraWulf Inc. The bitcoin mining industry is a highly competitive and evolving industry and new competitors and/or emerging technologies could enter the market and affect our competitiveness in the future. Other market participants in the bitcoin mining industry include investors and speculators, retail users transacting in digital assets, and service companies that provide a variety of services, including buying, selling, payment processing and storing of bitcoin. To continue to be successful, we will require sufficient additional capital to build additional facilities and to acquire new mining equipment and related infrastructure. Subject to raising additional capital, our bitcoin initiatives will compete with other industry participants that focus on investing in and securing the blockchains of bitcoin and other digital assets. Intellectual Property We seek protection for our intellectual property as appropriate. To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely upon a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and contractual restrictions such as confidentiality agreements, licenses and intellectual property assignment agreements. We have filed over 120 patent applications in technologies such as blockchain, data center management, infrastructure and cooling. The patent applications have been filed in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. A subset of the patent applications have issued as patents. We maintain a policy requiring our employees, contractors, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements to control access to our proprietary information. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we therefore may be unable to protect our proprietary technology in certain jurisdictions. Moreover, our platform incorporates software components licensed to the general public under open-source software licenses. We obtain many components from software developed and released by contributors to independent open-source components of our platform. Open-source licenses grant licensees broad permissions to use, copy, modify and redistribute those open-source components of our platform. As a result, open-source development and licensing practices can limit the value of our software copyright assets. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. To protect our brand, we file trademark registrations in some jurisdictions. Government Regulation Due to the relatively short history of digital assets like bitcoin, and their emergence as a new asset class, government regulation of blockchain and bitcoin is constantly evolving, with increased interest expressed by U.S. and international regulators. In October 2020, the Cyber-Digital Task Force of the U.S. Department of Justice published a report entitled Cryptocurrency: An Enforcement Framework that detailed the Departments view with respect to digital assets and the tools at the Departments disposal to deal with threats posed by digital assets. In February 2021, representatives of the government of Inner Mongolia, China announced plans to ban digital asset mining within the province due to the energy and rare earth mineral demands of the industry. In March 2021, the nominee for Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) expressed the need for investor protection along with promotion of innovation in the digital asset space. In March 2022, President Biden signed an Executive Order outlining an whole-of-government approach to addressing the risks and harnessing the potential benefits of digital assets and its underlying technology. The executive order lays out a national policy for digital assets over six highlighted priorities. In January 2023, the U.S. House of 9 Representatives created a new congressional subcommittee focused on digital assets, the Subcommittee of Digital Assets, Financial Technology and Inclusion, operating under the House Financial Services Committee. In addition to the activities of the United States federal government and its various agencies and regulatory bodies, government regulation of blockchain and digital assets is also under active consideration by similar entities in other countries and transnational organizations, such as the European Union. State and local regulations within the United States also may apply to our activities and other activities in which we may participate in the future. Other governmental or semi-governmental regulatory bodies have shown an interest in regulating or investigating companies engaged in blockchain or digital asset businesses. For instance, the SEC has taken an active role in regulating the use of public offerings of proprietary coins (so-called initial coin offerings) and has made statements and official promulgations as to the status of certain digital assets other than bitcoin as securities subject to regulation by the SEC. The effect of any regulatory change by the federal, state, local or foreign governments or any self-regulatory agencies on the Company is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and may have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in November 2022, the State of New York enacted a law prohibiting new proof-of-work mining activities that use power generated from carbon inputs. While the Company does not currently operate in New York, there is no guarantee that future regulation or adverse action will not take place and interpretation of existing regulations in a manner adverse to our business is possible. In January 2024, a decade after initial applications were filed, the SEC approved a series of spot Bitcoin exchange-traded funds, which have received billions of dollars of in-flows. In February 2024, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (the EIA) commenced a six-month survey among participants in the U.S. cryptocurrency mining industry to collect data to track and analyze the electricity consumption by such industry participants. The EIAs analysis would focus on how the energy demand for cryptocurrency mining is evolving, identify geographic areas of high growth, and quantify the sources of electricity used to meet cryptocurrency mining demand. It is unclear what, if any, regulatory policy changes may result following the collection and analysis of the data obtained through the EIAs survey if it proceeds, but if regulators seek to curb electricity consumption by cryptocurrency mining operations in the future our business could be adversely affected. As of February 23, 2024, the U.S. Department of Energy (the agency governing the EIA) agreed to temporarily suspend this survey following a lawsuit by a cryptocurrency association and bitcoin mining company. The Company will closely monitor the outcome of this and other regulatory developments concerning cryptocurrency mining, as to the potential effects on our business. In addition, various foreign jurisdictions either have adopted, or may adopt, laws, regulations or directives that affect digital assets such as bitcoin, digital asset networks, and their users and participants. Such laws, regulations or directives may conflict with those of the United States, may negatively impact the acceptance of bitcoin by users, merchants and service providers outside of the United States, and may therefore impede the growth of bitcoin. Presently, we do not believe any U.S. or state regulatory body other than the State of New York has taken any action or position adverse to bitcoin with respect to its production, sale, and use as a medium of exchange; however, future changes to existing regulations or entirely new regulations may affect our business in ways it is not presently possible for us to predict with any reasonable degree of certainty. As the regulatory and legal environment evolves, we may become subject to new laws, such as further regulation by the SEC and other agencies, which may affect our mining and other activities. Environmental The effects of human activity on global climate change have attracted considerable public and scientific attention, as well as the attention of the United States and other foreign governments. In general, efforts are being made by government regulators and others to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly those from coal combustion power plants. Some of these plants may be those our operations rely upon for power. In addition, there are increasing concerns over the quantity of energy, particularly from non-renewable sources, used for bitcoin mining and its effects on the environment (with lesser recognition for any positive contributions by bitcoin mining to the operation of existing electrical grids and systems). While the nature or effect on the Company of any environmental regulatory changes by federal, state, local or foreign governments or self-regulatory agencies is impossible to predict, the added cost of any environmental taxes, charges, assessments or penalties levied on power plants we rely upon could be passed on to us, increasing the cost to run our facilities. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements on our operations, our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position could be materially adversely impacted. 10 Seasonality The Companys production of bitcoin can be affected when extremely high or low temperatures in locations where its data centers operate result in local power price volatility that necessitates economic or grid stabilization-driven curtailment. Digital asset generation from the Companys mining operations may also vary depending on the Companys total hash rate at a given point in time relative to the total hash rate of the Bitcoin network. Corporate Information We were originally known as Power & Digital Infrastructure Acquisition Corp. On January 19, 2022, Legacy Core, XPDI, and XPDI Merger Sub consummated the transactions contemplated under the Merger Agreement, following the approval at the special meeting of the stockholders of XPDI held on January 19, 2022. In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, we changed our name from Power & Digital Infrastructure Acquisition Corp. to Core Scientific, Inc. Our principal executive offices are located at 838 Walker Road, Suite 21-2105, Dover, Delaware 19904, and our telephone number is (512) 402-5233. Our corporate website address is www.corescientific.com. Information contained on or accessible through our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the inclusion of our website address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is an inactive textual reference. Available Information Our principal executive offices and telephone number are listed on the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our website address is www.corescientific.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference only. We currently make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy reports and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. You can access our filings through the SECs internet site: www.sec.gov (intended to be an inactive textual reference only). 11 Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before deciding to invest in our securities. Although we have organized risks generally according to these categories in the discussion below, many of the risks may have ramifications in more than one category. These categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks we face and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters discussed. If any of the events or developments described below were to occur, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition could suffer materially, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Summary of Selected Risk Factors Associated with an Investment in Our Securities The following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in our securities: Our success depends in large part on our ability to earn bitcoin profitably and to attract customers for our hosting capabilities in a profitable manner. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position as the Bitcoin network experience increases in total network hash rate. Our business is capital intensive, we will need to raise additional capital, and failure to obtain the necessary capital when needed will force us to delay, limit or terminate our expansion efforts or other operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our need for significant electric power and the limited availability of power resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability to purchase and develop additional sources of low-cost renewable sources of energy effectively will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure in our critical systems, facilities or services we provide could lead to disruptions in our and our customers businesses and could harm our reputation and result in financial penalty and legal liabilities, which would reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Physical risks and regulatory changes relating to climate change may impact our costs, our access to materials and resources and demand for cryptocurrencies, potentially adversely impacting our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. If there are significant changes to the method of validating blockchain transactions, such changes could reduce demand for our blockchain hosting services. We may be vulnerable to physical security breaches, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A slowdown in market and economic conditions, particularly those impacting the blockchain industry and the blockchain hosting market, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Such material weaknesses may result in material misstatements of our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations. We may also identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal control. 12 Digital assets, and bitcoin in particular, are subject to price volatility. The value of bitcoin is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The halving of rewards available on the Bitcoin network, or the reduction of rewards on other networks, has had and in the future could have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenue as our customers may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining and customers may cease mining operations altogether, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the award of bitcoin and/or transaction fees for solving blocks is not sufficiently high to incentivize transaction processors, such processors may reduce or cease expending processing power on a particular network, which could negatively impact the utility of the network, reduce the value of its bitcoin and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As required by the terms of our existing debt agreements, we sell our bitcoin earned from mining as they are received, which limits the amount of digital assets we hold, thus preventing us from recognizing any gain from the appreciation in value of the digital assets we have sold and may sell in the future. Any change in the interpretive positions of the SEC or its staff with respect to digital asset mining firms could have a material adverse effect on us. Recent developments have increased the likelihood that U.S. federal and state legislatures and regulatory agencies will enact laws and regulations to regulate digital assets and digital asset intermediaries, such as digital asset exchanges and custodians. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from government regulators, investors, lenders, customers, and other market participants with respect to our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) policies may impose additional costs on us or expose us to additional risks. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. We may not have adequate sources of recovery if the bitcoin or other digital assets held by us are lost, stolen or destroyed due to third-party digital asset services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our historical financial results or our projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court or otherwise made public in the course of the Chapter 11 Cases; moreover, our emergence from bankruptcy may affect our business and business relationships. Our substantial level of indebtedness and our current liquidity constraints could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our indebtedness, which could negatively impact your ability to recover your investment in our securities. Risks Related to our Business and Industry Our success depends in large part on our ability to earn bitcoin and attract customers for our hosting capabilities in a profitable manner. Increases in power costs have impacted our ability to earn digital assets efficiently and reduced bitcoin pricing have reduced our operating margins. Continued increases in power costs and unfavorable prices for digital assets will impact our ability to attract customers for our services, harm our growth prospects and could have a continuing material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends in large part on our ability to earn bitcoin and to attract customers for our hosting capabilities in a profitable manner, which we may not be able to do if: there is a reduction in the demand for bitcoin causing the price of bitcoin to fall and the demand for our hosted mining solutions to be negatively impacted, reducing our revenue. Falling bitcoin prices will also reduce revenue from our self-mining operations. 13 high energy costs, supply chain disruptions or government regulation compliance costs increase mining costs and reduce revenue and profitability; we fail to provide competitive hosting terms or effectively market them to potential customers; we provide hosting services that are deemed by existing and potential customers or suppliers to be inferior to those of our competitors, or that fail to meet customers or suppliers ongoing and evolving program qualification standards, based on a range of factors, including available power, preferred design features, security considerations and connectivity; businesses decide to host internally as an alternative to the use of our services; we fail to successfully communicate the benefits of our services to potential customers; we are unable to strengthen awareness of our brand; we are unable to provide services that our existing and potential customers desire; either we or our customers are unable to secure an adequate supply of new generation digital asset mining equipment to host with us; or there is a slowdown in the growth of the internet generally as a medium for commerce and communication. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position as the Bitcoin network experiences increases in total network hash rate. As the relative market prices of a digital asset, such as bitcoin, increases, more companies are encouraged to mine for that digital asset and as more miners are added to the network, its total hash rate increases. In order for us to maintain its competitive position under such circumstances, we must increase our total hash rate by acquiring and deploying more mining machines, including new miners with higher hash rates. There are currently only a few companies capable of producing a sufficient number of machines with adequate quality to address the increased demand. If we are not able to acquire and deploy additional miners on a timely basis, our proportion of the overall network hash rate will decrease and we will have a lower chance of solving new blocks which will have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As more processing power is added to a network, our relative percentage of total processing power on that network is expected to decline absent significant capital investment, which has an adverse impact on our ability to generate revenue from processing transactions on that network and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Processing power on networks has been increasing rapidly over time while the rewards and transaction fees available on those networks tends to decline over time. In order to grow or maintain the revenue we generate from processing transactions on such networks, we are required to invest significant capital to acquire new computer servers, expand our power capacity and otherwise increase our effective processing power on such networks. In the event we are unable to invest sufficient capital to grow or maintain the level of our processing power on a network relative to the total processing power of such network, our revenue from the applicable network will decline over time and as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a decrease in the price of computer servers may result in an increase in transaction processors, which may lead to more competition for fees in a particular network. In the event we are unable to realize adequate fees on a network due to increased competition, our revenue from the applicable network will decline over time and in turn, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is capital intensive, and failure to obtain the necessary capital when needed will force us to delay, limit or terminate our expansion efforts or other operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of constructing, developing, operating and maintaining digital asset mining and facilities, and owning and operating a large fleet of the latest generation mining equipment, are substantial. Our mining operations can only be successful and ultimately profitable if the costs, including hardware and electricity costs, associated with earning digital assets are lower than the price of the digital assets we earn. Falling digital asset prices, significantly 14 higher energy prices, inflation and supply chain disruptions have increased electricity costs, delayed miner deployments and reduced our profitability. Our miners experience ordinary wear and tear from operation and may also face more significant malfunctions caused by factors which may be beyond our control, increasing our costs and reducing our revenue and profitability. The continual upgrade and refresh of mining machines requires substantial capital investment, and we may face challenges in doing so on a timely basis based on availability of new miners and our access to adequate capital resources. If we are unable to obtain adequate numbers of new and replacement miners at scale, we may be unable to remain competitive in our highly competitive and evolving industry. Moreover, in order to grow our hosting business, we need additional facilities to increase our capacity for more miners. The costs of constructing, developing, operating and maintaining hosting facilities and growing our hosting operations have increased significantly and may continue to increase in the future, which have made it difficult for us to attract new customers, expand our business and to operate our facilities profitably. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in order to meet our operating and capital needs. Current market conditions have made raising additional debt or equity financing difficult and may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. An inability to generate sufficient cash from operations or to obtain additional debt or equity financing have adversely affected our results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on a small number of digital asset mining equipment suppliers. Our business is highly dependent upon digital asset mining equipment suppliers such as Bitmain (as defined herein) providing an adequate and timely supply of new generation digital asset mining machines at economical prices to customers intending to purchase our hosting and other solutions. The growth in our business is directly related to increased demand for hosting services and digital assets such as bitcoin which is dependent in large part on the availability of new generation mining machines offered for sale at a price conducive to profitable digital asset mining, as well as the trading price of digital assets such as bitcoin. The market price and availability of new mining machines fluctuates with the price of bitcoin and can be volatile. Higher bitcoin prices increase the demand for mining equipment and increases the cost. In addition, as more companies seek to enter the mining industry, the demand for machines may outpace supply and create mining machine equipment shortages. Digital asset mining equipment suppliers, such as Bitmain, may not be able to keep pace with any surge in demand for mining equipment. Further, manufacturing mining machine purchase contracts are not favorable to purchasers and we may have little or no recourse in the event a mining machine manufacturer defaults on its mining machine delivery commitments. If we and our customers are not able to obtain a sufficient number of digital asset mining machines at favorable prices, our growth expectations, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. Miner manufacturers may continue requiring significant advance deposits before orders are fulfilled and delivered. Historically, miner manufacturers have required advance deposits for miner purchases. These deposits tie up significant amounts of cash several months before mining machines are received and operable to generate revenue. These advance deposits further drive the financial burden of operating a capital-intensive business. Miner manufacturers holding a deposit from the Company may go out of business before delivering purchased miners, or for other reasons fail to deliver the miners associated with the deposit. There is no certainty that, in such circumstances, the Company would succeed in recovering any of its deposit, which could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our reliance on third-party mining pool service providers for our earned mining reward payouts may have a negative impact on our operations. We utilize third party mining pools to receive our earned mining rewards from a given network. Mining pools allow mining participants to combine their processing power, which increases the chances of solving a block and the pool getting paid by the network. Contractually determined rewards are distributed by the pool operator, proportionally to our contribution to the pools overall mining power used to generate each block. We are dependent on the accuracy of the mining pool operators record keeping to accurately record our proportion of the total processing power provided to the pool. While we have internal methods of tracking both our power provided and the total power used by the pool, the mining pool operator uses its own method to determine our proportion of the pools total rewards. We have little means of recourse against the mining pool operator if we determine the proportion of the reward paid out to us by a mining pool operator is incorrect, other than leaving the pool. If we are unable to consistently obtain accurate proportionate rewards from our mining pool operators, we may experience reduced reward for our efforts, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations. 15 A portion of our revenue comes from the fees we receive for the services we provide to a small number of hosting customers, and the insolvency of, loss of, or significant decrease in business from, a number of these customers or our failure to continually attract new customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We previously generated a significant portion of our hosting revenue from a small number of hosting customers. Since December 2022, we have terminated most of our hosting customers to increase the Companys overall profitability. As of December 31, 2023, our largest hosting customer accounts for 49% of our overall hosting revenue and 11% of our total revenue. Any failure to meet our end-users expectations, including, but not limited to, any inability to meet their requirements for increased hosting capacity at attractive rates, could result in cancellation or non-renewal of our business relationships. Our increased focus on self-mining could be interpreted by our current and prospective customers as being competitive or inconsistent with our third-party hosting operations. If these customers reduced spending on our services, or changed their outsourcing strategy by moving to in-house facilities or outsourcing to other service providers, and we are not able to offset that lost revenue or replace the reduced capacity utilization with our own mining equipment, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have made significant investments in our business, such as acquiring additional facilities and equipment, and incurring additional costs in connection with the expansion of our business to meet our anticipated mining needs as well as the anticipated needs of both current and future customers. Accordingly, if we fail to obtain significant additional customers or fail to increase our self-mining operations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent one or more of our key customers commences bankruptcy proceedings pursuant to Title 11 of the United States Code, our contracts with such customers may be subject to rejection under applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code or, if we so agree, may be renegotiated. Further, during any such bankruptcy proceeding, prior to assignment and assumption, rejection or renegotiation of such contracts, the bankruptcy court may temporarily authorize the payment of value for our services less than contractually required, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. The resolution of any outstanding claims against such a customer or counterparty is dependent on the terms of the plan of reorganization and is inherently uncertain and subject to factors outside of our control. Delays in the expansion of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities or significant cost overruns could present significant risks to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The servers used for digital asset mining and hosting require the use of facilities with a highly specialized infrastructure and considerable, reliable power in order to compete effectively. Our strategy is to increase our mining capacity and increase substantially the number of miners we operate. In order to meet our financial plan, we need to expand our existing facilities or build new facilities. Our debt covenants may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make certain investments or needed capital expenditures or complete other significant transactions, and therefore may restrict our ability to pursue certain opportunities. We may face challenges in obtaining suitable land to build new facilities or to develop facilities on land we currently own or lease and need to work closely with the local power suppliers and local governments of the places where our proposed facilitates are located. We also may face challenges in generating sufficient cash or obtaining financing necessary to complete or develop planned facilities on time. Delays in actions that require the assistance of such third parties, in receiving required permits and approvals or in mediations with local communities, if any, and lack of available capital, will negatively impact our construction timelines and budget or result in any new facilities not being completed at all. Expansion of existing facilities, construction of new facilities, and sales of one or more existing facilities is being evaluated. Expansion and construction require us to procure and rely on the experience of one or more designers, general contractors and subcontractors, and we or such designers or contractors may experience financial or other problems during the design or construction process that could delay completion of planned facilities. We may also experience quality control issues as we implement any upgrades in our hosting capacity through the installation and maintenance of chipsets and servers or new cooling technologies such as immersion and water curtain cooling. Our business will be negatively impacted if we are unable to run our mining operations in a way that is technologically advanced, economically and energy efficient and temperature controlled. If we are unsuccessful, we will damage our miners and the miners of third parties and the profitability of our mining operations. Delays in the supply of power required to support a facility would cause material and negative effects on our revenue growth, profitability and results of operations. Delay in completing a project, or any substantial cost increase or failure to obtain sufficient capital to complete a project, would materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 If we do not accurately predict our facility requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of building out, leasing and maintaining our facilities constitute a significant portion of our capital and operating expenses. In order to manage growth and ensure adequate capacity for our digital mining operations and new and existing hosting customers while minimizing unnecessary excess capacity costs, we continuously evaluate our short- and long-term data center capacity requirements. If we overestimate our business capacity requirements or the demand for our services and therefore secure excess data center capacity, our operating margins could be materially reduced. If we underestimate our data center capacity requirements, we may not be able to service the required or expanding needs of our existing customers and may be required to limit new customer acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our need for significant electric power and the limited availability of power resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability to purchase and develop additional sources of low-cost renewable sources of energy effectively will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our mining and hosting services require a significant amount of electric power. The costs of electric power account for a significant portion of our cost of revenue. We require a significant electric power supply to conduct our mining activity and to provide many hosting services we offer, such as powering and cooling our and our customers servers and network equipment and operating critical mining and facility and equipment infrastructure. The amount of power required by us and our customers will increase commensurate with the demand for our services and the increase in miners we operate for ourselves and our hosting customers. Energy costs and availability are vulnerable to seasonality, with increased costs primarily in the summer months and risks of outages and power grid damage as a result of inclement weather, animal incursion, sabotage and other events out of our control. Higher than expected power rates in 2022 materially impacted our operations. We aim to build and operate energy efficient facilities, but such facilities may not be able to deliver sufficient power to meet the growing needs of our business. The cost of power at our facilities is dependent on our ability to perform under the terms in the power contracts we are a party to, which we may be unable to do successfully. Pursuant to these power contracts, if we fail to curtail our power usage when called upon or fail to satisfy certain eligibility requirements for monthly bill credits, our power costs would increase. Further, governments and government regulators may potentially seek to restrict or prohibit the ability of electricity suppliers to provide electricity to our facilities and mining operators in times of electricity shortage or otherwise. Any system downtime resulting from disruptions, curtailments, insufficient power resources or power outages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our operations do not run on back-up generators in the event of a power outage or curtailment. Increased power costs and limited availability and curtailment of power resources will reduce our revenue and have a material and adverse effect on our cost of revenue and results of operations. If we fail to accurately estimate the factors upon which we base our contract pricing, we may generate less profit than expected or incur losses on those contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our hosting contracts are generally priced on the basis of estimated power consumption by our clients, along with other costs of service, as adjusted for actual costs. Our ability to earn a profit on such contracts requires that we accurately estimate the costs involved and outcomes likely to be achieved and assess the probability of generating sufficient hosting capacity within the contracted time period. In addition, we may not be able to obtain all expected benefits, including tax abatements or government incentives offered in opportunity zones. The inability to accurately estimate the factors upon which we base our contract pricing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure in our critical systems, facilities or services we provide could lead to disruptions in our and our customers businesses and could harm our reputation and result in financial penalty and legal liabilities, which would reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The critical systems of the facilities we operate and the services we provide are subject to failure. Any failure in the critical systems of any facility we operate or services that we provide, including a breakdown in critical plant, equipment or services, routers, switches or other equipment, power supplies or network connectivity, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions impacting our operations as well as equipment damage, which could significantly disrupt our business operations and the operations of our customers, harm our reputation and reduce our revenue. Any failure or downtime in one of the facilities that we operate impact mining rewards generated by us and reduce the profitability of our customers. 17 The total destruction or severe impairment of any of the facilities we operate could result in significant downtime of our operations and services and loss of customer data. Since our ability to generate revenue depends on our ability to provide highly reliable service, even minor interruptions in our operations could harm our reputation and negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Our ability to generate revenue and the services we provide are subject to failures resulting from numerous factors, including: power loss, curtailment and disruption; equipment failure; human error or accidents; theft, sabotage and vandalism; failure by us or our suppliers to provide adequate service or maintain our equipment; network connectivity downtime and fiber cuts; service interruptions resulting from server relocation; security breaches of our infrastructure; improper building maintenance; physical, electronic and cybersecurity breaches; animal incursions; fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other natural disasters; extreme temperatures; water damage; public health emergencies; riots, protests and disorder; and terrorism, war and hostilities. Moreover, service interruptions and equipment failures may expose us to potential legal liability. As our services are critical to our customers business operations, any disruption in our services could result in lost profits of or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. Our customer contracts typically contain provisions limiting our liability for breach of such agreements, a court may not enforce any contractual limitations on our liability in the event that one of our customers brings a lawsuit against us as the result of a service interruption that they may ascribe to us. The outcome of any such lawsuit would depend on the specific facts of the case and any legal and policy considerations that we may not be able to mitigate. In such cases, we could be liable for substantial damage awards, which would as a result have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be vulnerable to physical security breaches, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A party who is able to compromise the physical security measures protecting our facilities could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations and misappropriate our property or the property of our customers. As we provide assurances to our customers that we provide the highest level of security, such a compromise could be particularly harmful to our brand and reputation. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. As techniques used to breach security change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may not be able to implement new security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, we may not be certain whether these measures could be circumvented. Any breaches that may occur could expose us to increased risk of lawsuits, regulatory penalties, loss of existing or potential customers, harm to our reputation and increases in our security costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Physical risks and regulatory changes relating to climate change may impact our costs, our access to materials and resources and demand for cryptocurrencies, potentially adversely impacting our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. The physical risks of climate change may impact the availability and cost of materials and natural resources, sources and supply of energy, demand for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, and could increase our insurance and other operating costs, including, potentially, to repair damage incurred as a result of extreme weather events or to renovate or retrofit facilities to better withstand extreme weather events. In addition, efforts are being made by the United States and foreign governments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly those from coal combustion power plants, some of which plants we may rely upon for power. The added cost of any environmental taxes, charges, assessments or penalties levied on such power plants could be passed on to us, increasing the cost to run our facilities. If our operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change, or if environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements on our operations, our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position could be adversely impacted. We may be exposed to cybersecurity threats and breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Threats to network and data security are increasingly diverse and sophisticated. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have been a prevalent concern in the bitcoin exchange market since the launch of the Bitcoin network. Despite our efforts and processes to prevent these, our computer servers and computer systems may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, employee theft or misuse and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer servers and computer systems. The preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber-attack in the future. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our network, in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or in a loss of our digital assets, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, lead to claims against us and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. In addition, any assertions of alleged security breaches or systems failure made against us, whether true or not, could harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial legal fees and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our digital infrastructure could be breached despite our security procedures. Our operational digital infrastructure may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, error or malfeasance of one of our employees, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our digital asset accounts, private keys, data or digital assets. Although we implement a number of security procedures with various elements such as two-factor verification, segregated accounts and secured facilities and plan to implement the maintenance of data on computers and/or storage media that is not directly connected to, or accessible from, the internet and/or networked with other computers (cold storage), to minimize the risk of loss, damage and theft, and we update such security procedures whenever reasonably practicable, we may be unable to prevent such loss, damage or theft, whether caused intentionally, accidentally or by an act of God. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our infrastructure. As the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. As technological change occurs, the security threats to our bitcoin will likely adapt and previously unknown threats may emerge. Our ability to adopt technology in response to changing security needs or trends may pose a challenge to the safekeeping of our digital assets. To the extent we are unable to identify and mitigate or stop new security threats, our digital assets may be subject to theft, loss, destruction or other attack. Any of these events could expose us to liability, damage our reputation, reduce customer confidence in our services and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we believe that as 19 our assets grow, we may become a more appealing target for security threats, such as hackers and malware. If an actual or perceived breach of our digital asset accounts occurs, the market perception of our effectiveness could be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our current or future technologies less competitive or obsolete. Rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes continue to impact our industry. The infrastructure at our facilities may become less marketable due to demand for new processes and technologies, including, without limitation: (i) new processes to deliver power to, or eliminate heat from, computer systems; (ii) customer demand for additional redundancy capacity; (iii) new technology that permits higher levels of critical load and heat removal than our facilities are currently designed to provide; (iv) an inability of the power supply to support new, updated or upgraded technology; and (v) a shift to more power-efficient transaction validation protocols. In addition, the systems that connect our facilities to the internet and other external networks may become insufficient, including with respect to latency, reliability and diversity of connectivity. Even if we succeed in adapting to new processes and technologies, our use of such new processes or technology may not have a positive impact on our financial performance. For example, we could incur substantial additional costs if we needed to materially improve our hosting center infrastructure through the implementation of new systems or new server technologies that require levels of critical load and heat removal that our facilities are not currently designed to provide. In addition, if one of our new offerings were competitive to our prior offerings and represented an adequate or superior alternative, customers could decide to abandon prior offerings that produce higher revenue or better margins for the new offering. Therefore, the adaptation to new processes and technologies could result in lower revenue, lower margins and/or higher costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there are significant changes to the method of validating blockchain transactions, such changes could reduce demand for our blockchain hosting services. New digital asset transaction protocols are continuously being deployed, and existing and new protocols are in a state of constant change and development. While certain validation protocols currently employ a proof-of-work consensus algorithm, whereby transaction processors are required to expend significant amounts of electrical and computing power to solve complex mathematical problems in order to validate transactions and create new blocks in a blockchain, there may be a shift towards adopting alternative validating protocols. These protocols may include a proof-of-stake algorithm or an algorithm based on a protocol other than proof-of-work, which may decrease the reliance on computing power as an advantage to validating blocks. Our mining operations, and, to our knowledge, the operations of our potential hosting customers, are currently designed to primarily support a proof-of-work consensus algorithm. Should the algorithm shift from a proof-of-work validation method to a proof-of-stake method, mining would require less energy and may render any company that maintains advantages in the current climate (for example, from lower priced electricity, processing, real estate or hosting) less competitive. As a result of our efforts to optimize and improve the efficiency of our digital asset mining operations, we may be exposed to the risk in the future of losing the benefit of our capital investments and the competitive advantage we hope to gain from this as a result, and may be negatively impacted if a switch to proof-of-stake validation were to occur. Any such change to transaction validating protocols could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The further development and acceptance of cryptographic and algorithmic protocols governing transaction validation and the issuance of, and transactions in, digital assets are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stoppage of development or acceptance of blockchain networks and digital assets would have an adverse material effect on the successful development of the mining operation and value of earned digital assets. The use of digital assets to, among other things, buy and sell goods and services, is part of a new and rapidly evolving industry that employs digital assets based upon a computer-generated mathematical and/or cryptographic protocol. The future of this industry is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The factors affecting the further development of this industry include, but are not limited to: continued worldwide growth in the adoption and use of digital assets and blockchain technologies; government and quasi-government regulation of digital assets and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operations of digital asset mining; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocols or similar digital asset systems; 20 the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, or trading assets including new means of using fiat currencies; general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to digital assets; and negative consumer perception of digital assets, including digital assets specifically and digital assets generally. A decline in the popularity or acceptance of digital assets could materially impact us or our potential hosting customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain broad protection in the United States or internationally for all of our existing and future intellectual property and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to obtain effective protection for our intellectual property and other proprietary rights in every country in which we operate. Protecting our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights may require significant expenditure of our financial, managerial and operational resources. Moreover, the steps that we may take to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to protect such rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating such rights. Any of our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights, whether registered, unregistered, issued or unissued, may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative proceedings and/or litigation. We may be required to spend significant resources to secure, maintain, monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights. We may initiate claims, administrative proceedings and/or litigation against others for infringement, misappropriation or violation of our intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights to enforce and/or maintain the validity of such rights. Any such action, if initiated, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may infringe on third-party intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial success depends on our ability to operate without infringing third-party intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights. For example, there may be issued patents of which we are not aware that our services or products infringe on. Also, there may be patents we believe we do not infringe on, but that we may ultimately be found to by a court of law or government regulatory agency. Moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. Because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our services or products allegedly infringe on. If a third party brings any claim against us based on third-party intellectual property rights and/or other proprietary rights, we will be required to spend significant resources to defend and challenge such claim, as well as to invalidate any such rights. Any such claim, if initiated against us, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependent on the ability of our management team and our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain other well-qualified employees, which may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected. Our success depends largely on the development and execution of our business strategy by our senior management team. We cannot assure you that our management will work well together, work well with our other existing employees or successfully execute our business strategy in the near-term or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled management and other employees. It is difficult to locate experienced executives in our industry. Further, competition for facility design, construction management, operations, data processing, engineering, IT, risk management and sales and marketing and other highly skilled personnel is extremely intense. We may not be able to hire and retain these personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure at this stage in our development. We may be unable to attract and retain our senior 21 executives and other key personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A slowdown in market and economic conditions, particularly those impacting the blockchain industry and the blockchain hosting market, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our customers are affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and globally, particularly those impacting the blockchain industry and the blockchain hosting market. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, including the imposition of new tariffs affecting our or our customers products and services, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and broad trends in industry and finance, all of which are beyond our control. Macroeconomic conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the United States and the rest of the world could adversely affect our customers and vendors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is heavily impacted by social, political, economic and other events and circumstances in the United States and in countries outside of the United States, most particularly Asian and other non-Western countries. Our business is heavily impacted by social, political, economic and other events and circumstances in the United States and in countries outside of the United States, most particularly in Asian and other non-Western countries. These events and circumstances are largely outside of our influence and control. We are heavily dependent on Chinese manufacture of equipment, much of which has historically been for sale within China and other countries outside the United States. We believe that historically China was a location of significant digital asset mining at low electric power rates. Recently, China and other foreign governments have taken action to prohibit or significantly restrict digital asset mining. For example, in May and June 2021, in their efforts to curb digital asset trading and mining, regulators in several Chinese Provinces, including Qinghai, Inner Mongolia and Sichuan, announced policies to curb or ban local digital asset mining operations. The long-term impact of such restrictions is unknown and could be detrimental to our business and profitability. Whether or not the lack of mining activity in China will negatively impact Chinese miner manufacturing and the development, price, availability of new and enhanced mining equipment is unknown. Should China or other countries that currently restrict digital asset mining eliminate such restrictions or actually seek to enhance such mining activity, the likely increase in mining activity would likely reduce our revenue and profitability. Global conflict could negatively impact the Companys business, results of operations and financial conditions. Unforeseen global events, such as the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas conflict, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. These and similar conflicts, including any resulting sanctions, export controls or other restrictive actions that may be imposed by the United States and/or other countries, have created global security concerns that could result in a regional conflict and otherwise have a lasting impact on regional and global economies, any or all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. To the extent that these conflicts have increased the global cost of energy and disrupted the demand for and price of bitcoin, it has and could continue to have an impact on our business. Sanctions, bans or other economic actions in response to conflicts could result in an increase in costs and disruptions to the Company. The extent of such items is not presently known, and any of them could negatively impact the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in tariffs or import restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Equipment necessary for digital asset mining is almost entirely manufactured outside of the United States. There is currently significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and various other countries, including China, the European Union, Canada, and Mexico, with respect to trade policies, treaties, tariffs and customs duties, and taxes. For example, since 2019, the U.S. government has implemented significant changes to U.S. trade policy with respect to China. These tariffs have subjected certain digital asset mining equipment manufactured overseas to additional import duties of up to 25%. The amount of the additional tariffs and the number of products subject to them has changed numerous times based on action by the U.S. government. These tariffs have increased costs of digital asset mining equipment, and new or additional tariffs or other restrictions on the import of equipment necessary for digital asset mining could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Such material weaknesses may result in material misstatements of our financial statements or cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations. We may also identify additional material weaknesses in the future or otherwise fail to maintain an effective system of internal control. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, we and our independent registered public accounting firm identified the following material weaknesses in the Companys internal control over financial reporting: (1) the Company did not design and implement program change management controls for certain financially relevant systems to ensure that IT program and data changes affecting the Companys (i) financial IT applications, (ii) digital currency mining equipment, and (iii) underlying accounting records, are identified, tested, authorized and implemented appropriately to validate that data produced by its relevant IT system(s) were complete and accurate. Automated process-level controls and manual controls that are dependent upon the information derived from such financially relevant systems were also determined to be ineffective as a result of such deficiency. (2) the Company did not design and/or implement user access provisioning controls to ensure appropriate segregation of duties that would adequately restrict user access to the financially relevant systems and data to the appropriate Company personnel; and (3) the Companys internal controls over financial reporting did not operate effectively at all times to ensure transactions were recorded timely and in accordance with GAAP. Appropriate segregation of duties was also not maintained at all times during the year. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. With the oversight of our senior management and audit committee, we have instituted plans to remediate the material weakness and will continue to take remediation steps, including hiring additional key supporting accounting personnel with public company reporting and accounting operations experience. In addition, we are formalizing inter-departmental communication, including establishing appropriate standing and ad hoc committees and enhancing electronic document storage for key financial transactions. We believe the measures described above will remediate the material weaknesses identified and strengthen our internal control. While we implement our plan to remediate the material weaknesses described above, we cannot predict the success of such plan or the outcome of its assessment of these plans at this time. If our steps are insufficient to remediate the material weaknesses successfully and otherwise establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, the reliability of our financial reporting, investor confidence, and the value of our securities could be materially and adversely affected. Implementation of this plan may not remediate these deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting and additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. The failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of its financial statements, causing us to fail to meet its reporting obligations. We may be required to record long-lived asset impairment charges, which could result in a significant charge to earnings. Under GAAP, we review our long-lived assets, such as fixed assets and intangible assets, for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant portion of our total assets consists of fixed assets. Factors that may be considered in assessing whether long-lived assets may not be recoverable include reduced estimates of future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We may experience unforeseen circumstances that adversely affect the value of our fixed assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded fixed assets. Our results of operations may be materially impacted if we are required to record a significant charge due to an impairment of our fixed assets. See financial statement Note 5 Property, Plant and Equipment, Net and Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2023, for discussions of recently recognized impairments. Losses relating to our business may be uninsured, or insurance may be limited. Our hosting operations are subject to hazards and risks normally associated with the daily operations of facilities. Currently, we maintain various insurance policies for business interruption for lost profits, property and casualty, public liability, commercial employee, workers compensation, personal property and auto liability. Our business interruption insurance for lost profits includes coverage for business interruptions, our property and casualty insurance includes coverage for equipment breakdowns and our commercial employee insurance includes employee group insurance. We believe our insurance coverage adequately covers the risks of our daily business operations. However, our current insurance policies may be insufficient in the case of prolonged, catastrophic or certain other events. Further, the digital assets held by us are not insured. The occurrence of any event that is not entirely covered by our insurance policies may result in interruption of our operations, subject us to significant losses or liabilities and damage our reputation as a provider of business continuity services. 23 Risks Related to the Price of Bitcoin Digital assets, and bitcoin in particular, are subject to price volatility. The value of bitcoin is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We currently generate almost all of our revenue from bitcoin rewards that we earn through self-mining in our facilities. Investing in bitcoin and other digital assets is speculative. Bitcoin and other digital assets have historically experienced significant intraday and long-term price volatility, significantly impacted by momentum pricing. Momentum pricing typically is associated with growth stocks and other assets whose valuation, as determined by the investing public, accounts for anticipated future appreciation in value. We believe that momentum pricing may have resulted, and may continue to result, in significant and rampant speculation regarding future appreciation (or depreciation) in the value of digital assets, inflating and making their market prices more volatile. In addition, there is currently growing but limited acceptance of digital assets in the retail and commercial marketplace, as compared to the demand generated by investors seeking a long-term value retention or by speculators seeking to profit from the short- or long-term holding of such digital assets, which may contribute to their levels of price volatility. We believe the value of digital assets related to our business is dependent on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: global digital asset supply; global digital asset demand, which can be influenced by the growth of retail merchants and commercial businesses acceptance of digital assets as payment for goods and services, the security of online digital asset exchanges and digital wallets that hold digital assets, the perception that the use and holding of digital assets is safe and secure, transaction fees, and the regulatory restrictions on their use; investors expectations with respect to the rate of inflation of fiat currencies; investors expectations with respect to the rate of deflation of digital assets; cyber theft of digital assets from online wallet providers, or news of such theft from such providers or from individuals online wallets; the availability and popularity of businesses that provide digital asset-related services; fees associated with processing a digital asset transaction; changes in the software, software requirements or hardware requirements underlying digital assets; changes in the rights, obligations, incentives, or rewards for the various participants in digital asset mining; interest rates; currency exchange rates, including the rates at which digital assets may be exchanged for fiat currencies; fiat currency withdrawal and deposit policies on digital asset exchanges and liquidity on such exchanges; interruptions in service or failures of major digital asset exchanges; investment and trading activities of large investors and holders, including private and registered funds, that may directly or indirectly invest in or hold digital assets; momentum pricing; monetary policies of governments, trade restrictions, currency devaluations and revaluations; regulatory measures, if any, that affect the use of digital assets, restrict digital assets as a form of payment, or limit the purchase of digital assets; global or regional political, economic or financial events and conditions; expectations that the value of digital assets will change in the near or long term. A decrease in the price of a single digital asset may cause volatility in the entire digital asset industry and may affect other digital assets. For example, a security breach that affects investor or user confidence in bitcoin, Ethereum, litecoin or another digital asset may affect the industry as a whole and may also cause the price of other digital assets to fluctuate; or with respect to bitcoin, increased competition from other forms of digital assets or payments services. Even if shareholders are able to hold their securities for the long-term, their securities may never generate a profit, since digital asset markets have historically experienced extended periods of flat or declining prices, in addition to sharp fluctuations. Investors 24 should be aware that bitcoin and other digital assets may not maintain their long-term value in terms of future purchasing power and that the acceptance of digital asset payments by mainstream retail merchants and commercial businesses may not continue to grow. If the price of bitcoin or other digital assets declines, our profitability will decline. The halving of rewards available on the Bitcoin network, or the reduction of rewards on other networks, has had and in the future could have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenue as our customers may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining and customers may cease mining operations altogether, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under the current protocols governing the Bitcoin network, the reward for validating a new block on that network is cut in half from time to time, which has been referred to in our industry as the halving. When the Bitcoin network was first launched, the reward for validating a new block was 50 bitcoin. In 2012, the reward for validating a new block was reduced to 25 bitcoin. In July 2016, the reward for validating a new block was reduced to 12.5 bitcoin, and in May 2020, the reward was further reduced to 6.25 bitcoin. The next halving for the bitcoin blockchain is anticipated to occur in April 2024 at block 840,000. In addition, other networks may operate under rules that, or may alter their rules to, limit the distribution of new digital assets. We, and to our knowledge, our potential hosting customers, currently rely on these rewards to generate a significant portion of our total revenue. If the award of digital assets for solving blocks and transaction fees are not sufficiently high, neither we nor our customers may have an adequate incentive to continue mining and may cease mining operations altogether, which as a result may significantly reduce demand for our hosting services. As a result, the halving of available rewards on the Bitcoin network, or any reduction of rewards on other networks, would have a negative impact on our revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the award of bitcoin and/or transaction fees for solving blocks is not sufficiently high to incentivize transaction processors, such processors may reduce or cease expending processing power on a particular network, which could negatively impact the utility of the network, reduce the value of its bitcoin and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As the number of bitcoin rewarded to transaction processors for validating blocks in the Bitcoin network decreases, the incentive for transaction processors to continue contributing processing power to the network may shift toward transaction fees. Such a shift may increase the transaction fees on a network. Higher transaction fees may reduce the utility of a network for an end user, which may cause end users to reduce or stop their use of that network. Existing users may be motivated to switch from one digital asset to another or back to fiat currency. In such case, the price of the relevant digital asset may decline substantially and could go to zero. Such reduced price and demand for, and use of, the relevant digital asset and network, either as it applies to our mining services or to those of our potential hosting customers, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that the profit margins of digital asset mining operations are not high, mining participants are more likely to sell their earned bitcoin, which could constrain bitcoin prices. Over the past few years, digital asset mining operations have evolved from individual users mining with computer processors, graphics processing units and first-generation ASIC servers. Currently, new processing power is predominantly added by incorporated and unincorporated professionalized mining operations. Professionalized mining operations may use proprietary hardware or sophisticated ASIC machines acquired from ASIC manufacturers. They require the investment of significant capital to acquire this hardware, to lease operating space (often in data centers or warehousing facilities), and to pay the costs of electricity and labor to operate the mining farms. As a result, professionalized mining operations are of a greater scale than prior mining operations and have more defined and regular expenses and liabilities. These regular expenses and liabilities require professionalized mining operations to maintain profit margins on the sale of digital assets. To the extent the price of digital assets decline and such profit margin is constrained, professionalized mining participants are incentivized to more immediately sell digital assets earned from mining operations, whereas it is believed that individual mining participants in past years were more likely to hold newly mined digital assets for more extended periods. The immediate selling of newly earned digital assets greatly increases the trading volume of the digital assets, creating downward pressure on the market price of digital asset rewards. The extent to which the value of digital assets earned by a professionalized mining operation exceeds the allocable capital and operating costs determines the profit margin of such operation. A professionalized mining operation may be more likely to sell a higher percentage of its newly earned digital assets rapidly if it is operating at a low profit margin and it may partially or completely cease operations if its profit margin is negative. In a low profit margin environment, a higher percentage could be sold more rapidly, thereby potentially depressing digital asset prices. Lower digital asset prices could result in further tightening of profit margins for professionalized mining operations creating a network effect that may further reduce the price of digital assets until mining operations with higher operating costs become unprofitable forcing them to reduce mining power or cease mining operations temporarily. Such circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our 25 business, prospects or operations and potentially the value of bitcoin and any other digital assets we earn through self-mining or otherwise acquire or hold for our own account. Mining operators may sell a substantial amount of digital assets into the market, which may exert downward pressure on the price of the applicable digital asset and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Mining requires the investment of significant capital for the acquisition of hardware, leasing or purchasing space, involves substantial electricity costs and requires the employment of personnel to operate the data facilities, which may lead mining operators to liquidate their positions in digital assets to fund these capital requirements. In addition, if the reward of new digital assets for mining declines, and/or if transaction fees are not sufficiently high, profit margins for mining operators may be reduced, and such operators may be more likely to sell a higher percentage of their digital assets. Whereas it is believed that individual operators in past years were more likely to hold digital assets for more extended periods, the immediate selling of newly transacted digital assets by operators may increase the supply of such digital assets on the applicable exchange market, which could create downward pressure on the price of the digital assets and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As required by the terms of our existing debt agreements, we sell our digital assets, including bitcoin, obtained from mining as they are earned, which limits the amount of digital assets we hold, thus preventing us from recognizing any gain from the appreciation in value of the digital assets we have sold and may sell in the future. The terms of our debt agreements require that we sell our digital assets, including bitcoin, as we receive them. When we sell a digital asset, we are unable to benefit from any future appreciation in the underlying value of that digital asset. Consequently, our bitcoin may be sold at a time when the price is lower than it otherwise might be in the future, which could reduce the gain we might have realized on the sale of that digital asset at a different time. Risks Related to our Limited Operating History We operate in a rapidly developing industry and have an evolving business model with a limited history of generating revenue from our services. In addition, our evolving business model increases the complexity of our business, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future business prospects and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business model has evolved in the past and continues to do so. After originally being founded in order to engage in the business of verifying and confirming transactions on a blockchain (also known as transaction processing, or mining), we became engaged primarily in providing infrastructure hosting services to our commercial counterparties. More recently, we decided to substantially increase our focus on digital asset mining for our own account. We have also recently terminated the contracts of several of our hosting customers to improve overall Company profitability and in furtherance of the Companys emphasis on self-mining. We may adjust our business model further from time to time, including trying to offer additional types of products or services, such as a blockchain application designed by us, blockchain services and other related businesses, or entering into strategic partnerships or acquisitions. We have generated limited revenue from such services, and we do not know whether any of them will be successful. The evolution of and modifications to our business strategy will continue to increase the complexity of our business and placed significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance and financial resources. Future additions to or modifications of our business strategy are likely to have similar effects. Further, any new services that we offer that are not favorably received by the market could damage our reputation or our brand. We may not ever generate sufficient revenues or achieve profitably in the future or have adequate working capital to meet our obligations. We cannot be certain that our current business strategy or any new or revised business strategies will be successful or that we will successfully address the risks we face. In the event that we do not effectively evaluate future business prospects, successfully implement new strategies or adapt to our evolving industry, it will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The digital asset mining industry is highly innovative, rapidly evolving and characterized by healthy competition, experimentation, frequent introductions of new products and services and uncertain and evolving industry and regulatory 26 requirements. We expect competition to further intensify in the future as existing and new competitors introduce new products or enhance existing products. We compete against a number of companies operating both within the United States and abroad, that have greater financial and other resources and that focus on digital asset mining, including businesses focused on developing substantial bitcoin mining operations. If we are unable to compete successfully, or if competing successfully requires us to take costly actions in response to the actions of our competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We compete with other bitcoin miners and with a range of hosting providers and blockchain providers for some or all of the services we offer. We face competition from numerous developers, owners and operators in the blockchain industry, including technology companies, such as hyperscale cloud players, managed service providers and real estate investment trusts (REITs), some of which own or lease properties similar to ours, or may do so in the future, in the same submarkets in which our properties are located. Cloud offerings may also influence our customers to move workloads to cloud providers, which may reduce the services they obtain from us. Our current and future competitors may vary from us in size, service offerings and geographic presence. Competition is primarily centered on reputation and track record; design, size, quality, available power and geographic coverage of hosting space; quality of installation and customer equipment repair services; relationships with equipment manufacturers and ability to obtain replacement parts; technical and software expertise; and financial strength and price. Some of our current and future competitors may have greater brand recognition, longer operating histories, stronger marketing, technical and financial resources and access to greater and less expensive power than we do. In addition, many companies in the industry are consolidating, which could further increase the market power of our competitors. Further, we also face significant competition from other users and/or companies that are processing transactions on one or more digital asset networks, as well as other potential financial vehicles, including securities, derivatives or futures backed by, or linked to, digital assets through entities similar to us, such as exchange-traded funds. Market and financial conditions, and other conditions beyond our control, may make it more attractive to invest in other financial vehicles, or to invest in digital assets directly. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and potentially the value of any digital assets we hold or expect to acquire for our own account. We have experienced difficulties in establishing relationships with banks, leasing companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions to provide us with customary financial products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. As an early stage company with operations focused in the digital asset mining industry, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, difficulties in establishing relationships with banks, leasing companies, insurance companies and other financial institutions to provide us with customary leasing and financial products and services, such as bank accounts, lines of credit, insurance and other related services, which are necessary for our operations. To the extent a significant portion of our business consists of digital asset transaction mining, processing or hosting, we may in the future continue to experience difficulty obtaining additional financial products and services on customary terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Framework If we were deemed an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the 1940 Act), applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. An issuer will generally be deemed to be an investment company for purposes of the 1940 Act if: it is an orthodox investment company because it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or it is an inadvertent investment company because, absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We believe that we are not and will not be primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and we do not hold ourselves out as being engaged in those activities. We intend to hold ourselves out as a digital asset mining business. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an orthodox investment company as described in the first bullet point above. While certain digital assets may be deemed to be securities, we do not believe that certain other digital assets, in particular bitcoin, are securities; therefore, we believe that less than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis will comprise digital assets that could be considered investment securities. Accordingly, we do not 27 believe that we are an inadvertent investment company by virtue of the 40% inadvertent investment company test as described in the second bullet point above. Although we do not believe any of the digital assets we may own, acquire, earn or mine are securities, there is still some regulatory uncertainty on the subject, see There is no one unifyingprinciple governing the regulatory status of digital assets nor whether digital assets are securities in any particular context. Regulatory changes or actions in one or more countries may alter the nature of an investment in us or restrict the use of digital assets in a manner that adversely affects our business, prospects or operations. If certain digital assets, including bitcoin, were to be deemed securities, and consequently, investment securities by the SEC, we could be deemed an inadvertent investment company. Similarly, if we were to acquire digital assets deemed investment securities to hold for our own account or to engage in certain transactions, such as loan or repurchase transactions, we could be deemed an inadvertent investment company. If we were to be deemed an inadvertent investment company, we may seek to rely on Rule 3a-2 under the 1940 Act, which allows an inadvertent investment company a grace period of one year from the earlier of (a) the date on which the issuer owns securities and/or cash having a value exceeding 50% of the issuers total assets on either a consolidated or unconsolidated basis or (b) the date on which the issuer owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of such issuers total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We are putting in place policies that we expect will work to keep the investment securities held by us at less than 40% of our total assets, which may include acquiring assets with our cash, liquidating our investment securities or seeking no-action relief or exemptive relief from the SEC if we are unable to acquire sufficient assets or liquidate sufficient investment securities in a timely manner. As Rule 3a-2 is available to an issuer no more than once every three years, and assuming no other exclusion were available to us, we would have to keep within the 40% limit for at least three years after we cease being an inadvertent investment company. This may limit our ability to make certain investments or enter into joint ventures that could otherwise have a positive impact on our earnings. In any event, we do not intend to become an investment company engaged in the business of investing and trading securities. Finally, we believe we are not an investment company under Section 3(b)(1) of the 1940 Act because we are primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. The 1940 Act and the rules thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operations of investment companies. Among other things, the 1940 Act and the rules thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, prohibit the issuance of stock options, and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to continue to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act. However, if anything were to happen that would cause us to be deemed to be an investment company under the 1940 Act, requirements imposed by the 1940 Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, could make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among us and our senior management team and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any change in the interpretive positions of the SEC or its staff with respect to digital asset mining firms could have a material adverse effect on us. We intend to conduct our operations so that we are not required to register as an investment company under the 1940 Act. Specifically, we do not believe that bitcoin, are securities. The SEC Staff has not provided guidance with respect to the treatment of these assets under the 1940 Act. To the extent the SEC Staff publishes new guidance with respect to these matters, we may be required to adjust our strategy or assets accordingly. We may not be able to maintain our exclusion from registration as an investment company under the 1940 Act. In addition, as a consequence of our seeking to avoid the need to register under the 1940 Act on an ongoing basis, we may be limited in our ability to engage in digital asset mining operations or otherwise make certain investments or engage in certain transactions, and these limitations could result in our holding assets we may wish to sell or selling assets we may wish to hold, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If regulatory changes or interpretations of our activities require our registration as a money services business (MSB) under the regulations promulgated by the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN) under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, or otherwise under state laws, we may incur significant compliance costs, which could be substantial or cost-prohibitive. If we become subject to these regulations, our costs in complying with them may have a material negative effect on our business and the results of our operations. To the extent that our activities cause us to be deemed an MSB under the regulations promulgated by FinCEN under the authority of the U.S. Bank Secrecy Act, we may be required to comply with FinCEN regulations, including those that would mandate us to implement anti-money laundering programs, make certain reports to FinCEN and maintain certain records. 28 To the extent that our activities would cause us to be deemed a money transmitter (MT) or equivalent designation, under state law in any state in which we may operate, we may be required to seek a license or otherwise register with a state regulator and comply with state regulations that may include the implementation of anti-money laundering programs, maintenance of certain records and other operational requirements. For example, in August 2015, the New York State Department of Financial Services enacted the first U.S. regulatory framework for licensing participants in virtual currency business activity. The regulations, known as the BitLicense, are intended to focus on consumer protection and regulate the conduct of businesses that are involved in virtual currencies in New York or with New York customers and prohibit any person or entity involved in such activity to conduct activities without a license. Such additional federal or state regulatory obligations may cause us to incur extraordinary expenses. Furthermore, we may not be capable of complying with certain federal or state regulatory obligations applicable to MSBs and MTs. If we are deemed to be subject to and determine not to comply with such additional regulatory and registration requirements, we may act to dissolve and liquidate. Recent developments have increased the likelihood that U.S. federal and state legislatures and regulatory agencies will enact laws and regulations to regulate digital assets and digital asset intermediaries, such as digital asset exchanges and custodians. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021 and continuing throughout 2022 and much of 2023, digital asset prices fell. This decline and other factors have led to volatility and disruption in the digital asset markets and financial difficulties for several prominent industry participants, including digital asset trading platforms, hedge funds and lending platforms. The collapse of TerraUSD and Luna and the bankruptcy filings of FTX and its subsidiaries, Three Arrows Capital, Ltd. (Three Arrows), Celsius Mining LLC (Celsius), Voyager Digital Ltd. (Voyager), Genesis Global Holdco, LLC (Genesis Global) and BlockFi Inc. have resulted in calls for heightened scrutiny and regulation of the digital asset industry, with a specific focus on digital asset exchanges, platforms, and custodians. The failures of risk management and other control functions at other companies that played a role in these events could accelerate an existing regulatory trend toward stricter oversight of crypto asset platforms and the crypto economy. Federal and state legislatures and regulatory agencies are expected to introduce and enact new laws and regulations to regulate digital asset intermediaries, such as digital asset exchanges and custodians. The Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress and certain U.S. agencies (including the SEC, the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the CFTC), FinCEN, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Bureau of Investigation), among other regulators, as well as the White House, have issued reports and releases concerning digital assets, including bitcoin and digital asset markets. However, the extent and content of any forthcoming laws and regulations are not yet ascertainable with certainty, and they may not be ascertainable in the near future. It is possible that new laws and increased regulation and regulatory scrutiny may require the Company to comply with certain regulatory regimes, which could result in new costs for the Company. In addition, new laws, regulations, and regulatory actions could significantly restrict or eliminate the market for, or uses of, digital assets including bitcoin, which could have a negative effect on the value of bitcoin, which in turn would have a negative effect on the value of the Companys securities. There is no one unifying principle governing the regulatory status of digital assets nor whether digital assets are securities in any particular context. Regulatory changes or actions in one or more countries may alter the nature of an investment in us or restrict the use of digital assets in a manner that adversely affects our business, prospects or operations. As digital assets have grown in both popularity and market size, governments around the world have reacted differently, with certain governments deeming digital assets illegal, and others allowing their use and trade without restriction. In some jurisdictions, such as in the U.S., digital assets are subject to extensive, and in some cases overlapping, unclear and evolving regulatory requirements. Bitcoin is the oldest and most well-known form of digital asset. Bitcoin and other forms of digital assets have been the source of much regulatory consternation, resulting in differing definitional outcomes without a single unifying statement. Bitcoin and other digital assets are viewed differently by different regulatory and standards setting organizations globally as well as in the United States on the federal and state levels. For example, the Financial Action Task Force considers a digital asset as currency or an asset, and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers a digital asset as property and not currency. Further, the IRS applies general tax principles that apply to property transactions to transactions involving virtual currency. Furthermore, in the several applications to establish an exchange traded fund (ETF) of digital assets, and in the questions raised by the Staff under the 1940 Act, no clear principles emerge from the regulators as to how they view these issues and how to regulate digital assets under the applicable securities acts. It has been widely reported that the SEC has recently issued letters and requested various ETF applications be withdrawn because of concerns over liquidity and valuation and unanswered questions about absence of reporting and compliance procedures capable of being implemented under the current state of the markets for exchange traded funds. On April 20, 2021, the U.S. House of Representatives passed a bipartisan bill titled Eliminate Barriers to Innovation 29 Act of 2021 (H.R. 1602). If passed by the Senate and enacted into law, the bipartisan bill would create a digital assets working group to evaluate the current legal and regulatory framework around digital assets in the United States and define when the SEC may have jurisdiction over a particular token or digital asset (i.e., when it is a security) and when the CFTC may have jurisdiction (i.e., when it is a commodity). If regulatory changes or interpretations require the regulation of bitcoin or other digital assets under the securities laws of the United States or elsewhere, including the Securities Act, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act) and the 1940 Act or similar laws of other jurisdictions and interpretations by the SEC, the CFTC, the IRS, Department of Treasury or other agencies or authorities, we may be required to register and comply with such regulations, including at a federal, state or local level. To the extent that we decide to continue operations, the required registrations and regulatory compliance steps may result in extraordinary expense or burdens to us. We may also decide to cease certain operations and change our business model. Any disruption of our operations in response to the changed regulatory circumstances may be at a time that is disadvantageous to us. In addition, various foreign jurisdictions either have adopted or may adopt laws, regulations or directives that affect digital assets, digital asset networks and their users and hosting service providers that fall within such jurisdictions regulatory scope. Such laws, regulations or directives may conflict with those of the United States, and may negatively impact the acceptance of digital assets by users, merchants and service providers outside of the United States and therefore impede the growth of digital asset use. A number of countries, including India, China, South Korea and Russia, among others, currently have a more restrictive or unclear stance toward digital assets and, thereby, have reduced the rate of expansion of digital asset use, as well as digital asset mining, in each of those countries. Regulatory actions may restrict the use of digital assets or the operation of digital asset networks or may impose additional regulatory burdens on our business. Changing enforcement policies and priorities have the potential to cause additional expenditures, restrictions, delays and strategic changes in connection with our business operations. Laws and regulations may be subject to changes in enforcement policies or priorities, including changes that may result from changes in the political landscape and technologies. Recently, there has been a significant amount of regulatory attention directed toward digital assets, digital asset networks and other industry participants by United States federal and state governments, foreign governments and self-regulatory agencies. For example, as digital assets such as bitcoin have grown in popularity and in market size, the Federal Reserve Board, U.S. Congress and certain U.S. agencies (e.g., FinCEN, the SEC, the CFTC and the Federal Bureau of Investigation) have begun to examine the operations of the Bitcoin network, Bitcoin users and Bitcoin exchange markets. In addition, state regulators such as the Texas State Securities Board, the Massachusetts Securities Division of the Office of the Secretary of the Commonwealth, the New Jersey Bureau of Securities, the North Carolina Secretary of States Securities Division and the Vermont Department of Financial Regulation have initiated actions against, and investigations of, individuals and companies involved in digital assets. Governments may in the future take regulatory actions that prohibit or severely restrict the right to acquire, own, hold, sell, use or trade digital assets or to exchange digital assets for fiat currency. Ownership of, holding or trading in digital assets may then be considered illegal and subject to sanction. Governments may also take regulatory action that may increase the cost and/or subject digital asset mining companies to additional regulation. By extension, similar actions by governments may result in the restriction of the acquisition, ownership, holding, selling, use or trading in the capital stock of digital asset mining companies, including our securities. Such a restriction could result in us liquidating our digital asset inventory at unfavorable prices and may adversely affect our shareholders. The effect of any regulatory change, either by federal, state, local or foreign governments or any self-regulatory agencies, on us or our potential hosting customers is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and may require us or our potential hosting customers to cease certain or all operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from government regulators, investors, lenders, customers, and other market participants with respect to our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) policies may impose additional costs on us or expose us to additional risks. Companies across all industries and around the globe are facing increasing scrutiny relating to their ESG policies and disclosures. Regulators, investors, lenders, customers and other market participants are increasingly focused on ESG practices and in recent years have placed increasing importance on the implications and social cost of investments. The increased focus and activism related to ESG may hinder our access to capital, as investors and lenders may reconsider their capital investment allocation as a result of their assessment of our ESG practices. If our ESG practices do not meet evolving regulator, investor, lender, customer or other industry stakeholder expectations and standards or if we do not adapt to or comply with regulator, investor, lender, customer or other 30 industry shareholder expectations and standards, our reputation, ability to attract and/or retain employees, financial condition and/or share price could be negatively impacted. We may also incur additional costs if we do not adapt to or comply with stakeholder expectations about our electricity usage and other ESG concerns. Our failure or perceived failure to adapt to or comply with existing and potential government regulations, which are evolving but may relate to the suitable deployment of electric power, or which are perceived to have not responded appropriately to the growing concern for ESG issues, our reputation would suffer which would have similar negative impacts that could result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to risks associated with misleading and/or fraudulent disclosure or use by the creators of digital assets. Generally, we rely primarily on a combination of white papers and other disclosure documents prepared by the creators of applicable digital assets, as well as on our managements ability to obtain adequate information to evaluate the potential implications of transacting in these digital assets. However, such white papers and other disclosure documents and information may contain misleading and/or fraudulent statements (which may include statements concerning the creators ability to deliver in a timely fashion the product and/or service disclosed in their white papers and other disclosure documents) and/or may not reveal any unlawful activities by the creators. Recently, there has been an increasing number of investigations and lawsuits by the SEC and the CFTC involving digital asset creators for fraud and misappropriation, among other charges. Additionally, FinCEN has increased its enforcement efforts involving digital asset creators regarding compliance with anti-money laundering and Know-Your-Customer laws. To the extent that any of these creators make misleading and/or fraudulent disclosures or do not comply with federal, state or foreign laws, or if we are unable to uncover all material information about these digital assets and/or their creators, we may not be able to make a fully informed business decision relating to our transacting in or otherwise involving such digital assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our interactions with a blockchain may expose us to specially designated nationals (SDN) or blocked persons or cause us to violate provisions of law that did not contemplate distributed ledger technology. The Office of Financial Assets Control of the U.S. Department of Treasury (OFAC) requires us to comply with its sanction program and not conduct business with persons named on its SDN list. However, because of the pseudonymous nature of blockchain transactions, we may inadvertently and without our knowledge engage in transactions with persons named on OFACs SDN list. Our internal policies prohibit any transactions with such SDN individuals, but we may not be adequately capable of determining the ultimate identity of the individual with whom we transact with respect to selling digital assets. In addition, in the future, OFAC or another regulator, may require us to screen transactions for OFAC addresses or other bad actors before including such transactions in a block, which may increase our compliance costs, decrease our anticipated transaction fees and lead to decreased traffic on our network. Any of these factors, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Moreover, federal law prohibits any U.S. person from knowingly or unknowingly possessing any visual depiction commonly known as child pornography. Recent media reports have suggested that persons have imbedded such depictions on one or more blockchains. Because our business requires us to download and retain one or more blockchains to effectuate our ongoing business, it is possible that such digital ledgers contain prohibited depictions without our knowledge or consent. To the extent government enforcement authorities literally enforce these and other laws and regulations that are impacted by decentralized distributed ledger technology, we may be subject to investigation, administrative or court proceedings, and civil or criminal monetary fines and penalties, all of which could harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Our ability to comply with applicable complex and evolving laws, regulations, and rules is largely dependent on the establishment and maintenance of our compliance, audit, and reporting systems, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. While we plan to devote significant resources to develop policies and procedures to identify, monitor and manage our risks, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures will always be effective against all types of risks, including unidentified or unanticipated risks, or that we will always be successful in monitoring or evaluating the risks to which we are or may be exposed in all market environments. 31 Risks Related to Digital Assets Digital assets exchanges and other trading venues are relatively new and, in some cases, unregulated and some have experienced fraud and failure. To the extent that digital asset exchanges or other trading venues are involved in fraud or experience security failures or other operational issues, a reduction in digital asset prices could occur. Digital asset market prices depend, directly or indirectly, on the prices set on exchanges and other trading venues, which are new and, in most cases, largely unregulated as compared to established, regulated exchanges for securities, derivatives and other currencies. For example, during the past three years, a number of bitcoin exchanges have been closed due to fraud, business failure or security breaches. In many of these instances, the customers of the closed bitcoin exchanges were not compensated or made whole for the partial or complete losses of their account balances in such bitcoin exchanges. While smaller exchanges are less likely to have the infrastructure and capitalization that provide larger exchanges with additional stability, larger exchanges may be more likely to be appealing targets for hackers and malware (i.e., software used or programmed by attackers to disrupt computer operation, gather sensitive information, or gain access to private computer systems) and may be more likely to be targets of regulatory enforcement action. Many digital asset exchanges currently do not provide the public with significant information regarding their ownership structure, management teams, corporate practices or regulatory compliance. As a result, the marketplace may lose confidence in, or may experience problems relating to, digital asset exchanges, which may cause the price of bitcoin to decline. For example, in the first half of 2022, each of Celsius, Voyager, and Three Arrows declared bankruptcy, resulting in a loss of confidence among participants in the digital asset ecosystem and negative publicity surrounding digital assets more broadly. In November 2022, BlockFi Inc. and FTX Trading Ltd (FTX), the third largest digital asset exchange by volume at the time, halted customer withdrawals, and, shortly thereafter, FTX and its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy. Most recently, in January 2023, Genesis Global and certain affiliates filed for bankruptcy. In response to these events, the digital asset markets, including the market for bitcoin specifically, have experienced price volatility and several other entities in the digital asset industry have been, and may continue to be, negatively affected, further undermining confidence in the digital asset market and in bitcoin. These events have also negatively impacted the liquidity of the digital asset market as certain entities affiliated with FTX engaged in significant trading activity. If the liquidity of the digital asset market continues to be negatively impacted by these events, digital asset prices, including the price of bitcoin, may continue to experience significant volatility and confidence in the digital asset markets may be further undermined. A perceived lack of stability in the digital asset exchange market and the closure or temporary shutdown of digital asset exchanges due to business failure, hackers or malware, government-mandated regulation, or fraud, may reduce confidence at least in part in digital asset networks and result in greater volatility in bitcoins value. Because the value of bitcoin is derived from the continued willingness of market participants to exchange government-issued currency that is designated as legal tender in its country of issuance through government decree, regulation, or law (fiat currency) for bitcoin, should the marketplace for bitcoin be jeopardized or disappear entirely, permanent and total loss of the value of bitcoin may result. Digital asset transactions are irrevocable and, if incorrectly transferred, digital assets may be irretrievable. As a result, any incorrectly executed digital asset transactions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Typically, digital asset transactions are not, from an administrative perspective, reversible without the consent and active participation of the recipient of the transaction or, in theory, control or consent of a majority of the processing power on the applicable network. Once a transaction has been confirmed and verified in a block that is added to the network blockchain, an incorrect transfer of a digital asset or a theft of a digital asset generally will not be reversible and we may not be capable of seeking compensation for any such transfer or theft. Although transfers of any digital assets we hold will not regularly be made to or from vendors, consultants, services providers, etc., it is possible that, through computer or human error, or through theft or criminal action, digital assets held by us could be transferred from us in incorrect amounts or to unauthorized third parties. To the extent that we are unable to seek a corrective transaction with such third party or are incapable of identifying the third party that has received our digital assets through error or theft, we will be unable to revert or otherwise recover our incorrectly transferred digital assets. To the extent that we are unable to seek redress for such error or theft, such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not have adequate sources of recovery if the bitcoin held by us are lost, stolen or destroyed due to third-party digital asset services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain digital assets held by us are stored using Coinbase Global, Inc. (Coinbase), a third-party digital asset service. We believe that the security procedures that Coinbase utilizes, such as dual authentication security, secured facilities, segregated accounts 32 and cold storage, are reasonably designed to safeguard our bitcoin and other digital assets from theft, loss, destruction or other issues relating to hackers and technological attack. Nevertheless, the security procedures cannot guarantee the prevention of any loss due to a security breach, software defect or act of God that may be borne by us. In addition, Coinbases limited liability under its services agreement with us may limit our ability to recover losses relating to our bitcoin. If such digital assets are lost, stolen or destroyed under circumstances rendering a third party liable to us, it is possible that the responsible third party may not have the financial resources or insurance sufficient to satisfy any or all of our claims against the third party, or have the ability to retrieve, restore or replace the lost, stolen or destroyed digital assets due to governing network protocols and the strength of the cryptographic systems associated with such digital assets. To the extent that we are unable to recover on any of our claims against any such third party, such loss could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any loss or destruction of a private key required to access a digital asset is irreversible. Loss of access to digital assets may be permanent. Digital assets are each accessible and controllable only by the possessor of both the unique public key and private key associated with the digital asset. Although we utilize the services of third-party holders of digital assets and sell digital assets as soon as practicable after receiving them, it is possible that digital assets in our possession can be lost or stolen and irretrievable which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The digital assets held by us are not subject to FDIC or SIPC protections. We do not hold our digital assets with a banking institution or a member of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC), and to date, neither the FDIC nor the SIPC has extended any such protections to depositors of digital assets. Accordingly, our digital assets are not subject to the protections by FDIC or SIPC member institutions and any loss of our digital assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Digital assets, including bitcoin, face significant scaling obstacles that can lead to high fees or slow transaction settlement times and any mechanisms of increasing the scale of digital asset settlement may significantly alter the competitive dynamics in the market. Digital assets face significant scaling obstacles that can lead to high fees or slow transaction settlement times, and attempts to increase the volume of transactions may not be effective. Scaling digital assets, and particularly bitcoin, is essential to the widespread acceptance of digital assets as a means of payment, which is necessary to the growth and development of our business. Many digital asset networks face significant scaling challenges. For example, digital assets are limited with respect to how many transactions can occur per second. In this respect, bitcoin may be particularly affected as it relies on the proof-of-work validation, which due to its inherent characteristics may be particularly hard to scale to allow simultaneous processing of multiple daily transactions by users. Participants in the digital asset ecosystem debate potential approaches to increasing the average number of transactions per second that the network can handle and have implemented mechanisms or are researching ways to increase scale, such as sharding, which is a term for a horizontal partition of data in a database or search engine, which would not require every single transaction to be included in every single miners or validators block. There is no guarantee that any of the mechanisms in place or being explored for increasing the scale of settlement of digital asset transactions will be effective, how long they will take to become effective or whether such mechanisms will be effective for all digital assets. There is also a risk that any mechanisms of increasing the scale of digital asset settlements, such as the ongoing upgrades as part of Ethereum 2.0, may significantly alter the competitive dynamics in the digital asset market and may adversely affect the value of bitcoin and the price of our securities. Any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Latency in confirming transactions on a network could result in a loss of confidence in the network, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Latency in confirming transactions on a network can be caused by a number of factors, such as transaction processors ceasing to support the network and/or supporting a different network. To the extent that any transaction processors cease to record transactions on a network, such transactions will not be recorded on the blockchain of the network until a block is solved by a transaction processor that does not require the payment of transaction fees or other incentives. Currently, there are no known incentives for transaction processors to elect to exclude the recording of transactions in solved blocks. However, to the extent that any such incentives arise (for example, with respect to bitcoin, a collective movement among transaction processors or one or more mining pools forcing bitcoin users to pay transaction fees as a substitute for, or in addition to, the award of new bitcoin upon the solving of a block), transaction 33 processors could delay the recording and verification of a significant number of transactions on a networks blockchain. If such latency became systemic, and sustained, it could result in greater exposure to double-spending transactions and a loss of confidence in the applicable network, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increasing growth and popularity of digital assets, ICOs and security token offerings, as well as non-digital asset related applications that utilize blockchain technology on certain networks, can cause congestion and backlog, and as result, increase latency on such networks. An increase in congestion and backlogs could result in longer transaction confirmation times, an increase in unconfirmed transactions (that is, transactions that have yet to be included in a block on a network and therefore are not yet completed transactions), higher transaction fees and an overall decrease in confidence in a particular network, which could ultimately affect our ability to transact on that particular network and, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Malicious actors or botnet may obtain control of more than 50% of the processing power on the bitcoin or other network. If a malicious actor or botnet (a volunteer or hacked collection of computers controlled by networked software coordinating the actions of the computers) obtains a majority of the processing power dedicated to mining on the bitcoin or other network, it may be able to alter the blockchain on which the bitcoin or other network and most bitcoin or other digital asset transactions rely by constructing fraudulent blocks or preventing certain transactions from completing in a timely manner, or at all. The malicious actor or botnet could control, exclude, or modify the ordering of transactions, though it could not generate new bitcoin or digital assets or transactions using such control. The malicious actor could double-spend its own bitcoin or digital assets (i.e., spend the same bitcoin or digital assets in more than one transaction) and prevent the confirmation of other users transactions for so long as it maintained control. To the extent that such malicious actor or botnet did not yield its control of the processing power on the bitcoin or other network, or the bitcoin or other community did not reject the fraudulent blocks as malicious, reversing any changes made to the blockchain may not be possible. Although there are no known reports of malicious activity or control of the bitcoin blockchain achieved through controlling over 50% of the processing power on the network, it is believed that certain mining pools may have exceeded the 50% threshold. The possible crossing of the 50% threshold indicates a greater risk in that a single mining pool could exert authority over the validation of bitcoin transactions. To the extent that the Bitcoin or other digital asset ecosystems, including developers and administrators of mining pools, do not act to ensure greater decentralization of bitcoin or other digital asset mining processing power, the feasibility of a malicious actor obtaining control of the processing power on the bitcoin or other network will increase, which may adversely affect an investment in us. Intellectual property rights claims may adversely affect the operation of any or all networks. Third parties may assert intellectual property rights claims relating to the operation of digital assets and the holding and transfer of such assets. Regardless of the merit of any intellectual property rights claims or other legal action, any threatened action that reduces confidence in the long-term viability of any or all of the networks or other similar peer-to-peer networks, or in the ability of end-users to hold and transfer digital assets, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, a meritorious intellectual property rights claim could prevent us and other end-users from holding or transferring the digital assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A soft or hard fork on a network could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The rules governing a networks protocol are subject to constant change and, at any given time, there may be different groups of developers that can modify a networks protocol. As network protocols are not sold and their use does not generate revenues for their development teams, the core developers are generally not compensated for maintaining and updating the network protocols. Consequently, there is a lack of financial incentive for developers to maintain or develop networks and the core developers may lack the resources to adequately address emerging issues with network protocols. Although the bitcoin and other leading networks are currently supported by core developers, such support may not continue or be sufficient in the future. To the extent that material issues arise with the bitcoin or another network protocol and the core developers and open-source contributors are unable to address the issues adequately or in a timely manner, the networks may be adversely affected. Any individual can download the applicable network software and make any desired modifications that alter the protocols and software of the network, which are proposed to developers, users and transaction processors on the applicable network through software downloads and upgrades, typically posted to development forums such as GitHub.com. Such proposed modifications can be agreed upon, developed, adopted and implemented by a substantial majority of developers, transaction processors and users, which, in 34 such event, results in a soft fork or hard fork on the relevant network. A soft fork occurs when an updated version of the validating protocol is still backwards compatible with previous versions of the protocol. As a result, non-upgraded network participants with an older version of the validating protocol will still recognize new blocks or transactions and may be able to confirm and validate a transaction; however, the functionality of the non-upgraded network participant may be limited. Thus, non-upgraded network participants are incentivized to adopt the updated version of the protocol. The occurrence of a soft fork could potentially destabilize mining and increase transaction and development costs and decrease trustworthiness of a network. A hard fork occurs when the updated version of the validating protocol is not backwards compatible with previous versions of the protocol, and therefore, requires forward adoption by network participants in order to recognize new blocks, validate and verify transactions and maintain consensus on the relevant blockchain. Since the updated version of the protocol is not backwards compatible, a hard fork can cause the relevant blockchain to permanently diverge into two separate blockchains on a network. For example, in the case of bitcoin, a hard fork created two new digital assets: Bitcoin Cash and Bitcoin Gold. The value of a newly created digital asset from a hard fork (forked digital asset) may or may not have value in the long-run and may affect the price of other digital assets if interest and resources are shifted away from previously existing digital assets to the forked digital asset. The value of a previously existing digital asset after a hard fork is subject to many factors, including the market reaction and value of the forked digital asset and the occurrence of other soft or hard forks in the future. As such, the value of certain digital assets could be materially reduced if existing and future hard forks have a negative effect on their value. If a soft fork or hard fork occurs on a network, which we or our hosting customers are processing transactions or hold digital assets in, we may be required to upgrade our hardware or software in order to continue our mining operations, and we may not be able to make such upgrades. A soft fork or hard fork in a particular digital asset that we process could have a negative effect on the value of that digital asset and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent that any miners cease to record transactions in solved blocks, transactions that do not include the payment of a transaction fee will not be recorded on the blockchain until a block is solved by a miner who does not require the payment of transaction fees. Any widespread delays in the recording of transactions could result in a loss of confidence in that digital asset network, which could adversely impact an investment in us. To the extent that any miners cease to record transactions in solved blocks, such transactions will not be recorded on the blockchain. Currently, there are no known incentives for miners to elect to exclude the recording of transactions in solved blocks; however, to the extent that any such incentives arise (e.g., a collective movement among miners or one or more mining pools forcing bitcoin users to pay transaction fees as a substitute for or in addition to the award of new bitcoins upon the solving of a block), actions of miners solving a significant number of blocks could delay the recording and confirmation of transactions on the blockchain. Any systemic delays in the recording and confirmation of transactions on the blockchain could result in greater exposure to double-spending transactions and a loss of confidence in certain or all digital asset networks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, and operating results. Risks Related to the Restructuring, our Indebtedness and Liquidity Our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court or otherwise made public in the course of the Chapter 11 Cases. In connection with the Disclosure Statement and Plan of Reorganization that we filed with the Bankruptcy Court and the hearing to consider confirmation of our Plan of Reorganization (as well as in certain other filings), we prepared projected financial information for various reasons, including to demonstrate to the Bankruptcy Court the feasibility of the Plan of Reorganization and our ability to continue operations upon our emergence from Chapter 11. Those projections were prepared solely for the purposes stated therein and have not been, and will not be, updated on an ongoing basis and should not be relied upon by investors. At the time they were prepared, the projections reflected numerous assumptions concerning our anticipated future performance with respect to then prevailing and anticipated market and economic conditions that were and remain beyond our control and that may not materialize. Projections are inherently subject to substantial and numerous uncertainties and to a wide variety of significant business, economic and competitive risks and the assumptions underlying the projections or valuation estimates may prove to be wrong in material respects. Actual results may vary significantly from those contemplated by the projections. As a result, investors should not rely on those projections. We have just emerged from bankruptcy under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, which could adversely affect our business, reputation and business relationships. 35 It is possible that having just recently emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect our business, reputation and relationships with vendors, suppliers, service providers, customers, employees and other third parties. As a result of our recent emergence, the following risks exist: vendors, suppliers, customers, service providers or other contract counterparties could terminate their relationships with us or require financial assurances or other enhanced performances; we may face challenges in renewing existing contracts and competing for new business; a significant portion of our assets including our miners and our mining facilities are pledged to various of our creditors; we may face the tightening of payment or credit terms and/or increases in the price of supplied goods or services; it may be more difficult to attract, motivate and/or retain key executives and employees; employees may be distracted from the performance of their duties or more inclined to pursue other employment opportunities; and competitors may take business away from us, and our ability to attract and retain customers may be negatively impacted. Upon emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases, the composition of our Board of Directors changed significantly. Pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, the composition of our Board of Directors changed significantly upon emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. Our Board of Directors now includes members appointed by our prospective significant stockholders and significant holders of our debt. While we expect to engage in an orderly transition process as we integrate newly appointed board members, our Board of Directors may change views on strategic initiatives and a range of issues that will determine our future. As a result, the future strategy and plans of ours may differ materially from those of the past. See Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance for information regarding our Board of Directors and our key management members following emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases. The ability to attract and retain key personnel is critical to the success of our business and may be affected by our emergence from bankruptcy. The success of our business depends on key personnel. The ability to attract and retain these key personnel may be affected by our emergence from bankruptcy, the uncertainties currently facing the business and changes we may make to the organizational structure to adjust to changing circumstances. Any potential delays in adopting our management incentive plan and other executive benefits and compensation may make it difficult to retain key personnel and we may need to enter into retention or other arrangements that could be costly to maintain. If executives, managers or other key personnel resign, retire or are terminated, or their service is otherwise interrupted, we may not be able to replace them in a timely manner and we could experience significant declines in productivity. Our substantial level of indebtedness and our current liquidity constraints could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to service our indebtedness, which, together with the impact of the Chapter 11 process, could negatively impact your ability to recover your investment in our securities. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. As of December 31, 2023, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $865.5 million aggregate principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. Our substantial level of indebtedness and the current constraints on our liquidity could have important consequences, including the following: we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on our indebtedness, which reduces or will reduce funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions our ability to refinance such indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions there are significant constraints on our ability to generate liquidity through incurring additional debt we may be more vulnerable to economic downturn and adverse developments in our business; to the extent our debt with variable interest rates is not swapped at a fixed rate, we may be subject to increased exposure to rising interest rates; 36 we may be more limited in the types of activities and assets we are permitted to engage in, own or acquire; consents may be required for certain transactions that we may wish to effect, and such consents may not be granted or granted only on unfavorable terms; and failure to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt instruments which, among other things, require us to maintain specified financial ratios and limit our ability to incur debt and sell assets, could result in an event of default that could have a material adverse effect on our business or prospects if not cured or waived. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness. To the extent new indebtedness is added to our debt levels, including as a result of satisfying interest payment obligations on certain of our indebtedness with payments-in-kind, the related risks that we now face could intensify. If we are unable to comply with our covenants under our indebtedness, our liquidity may be further adversely affected. Our ability to meet our expenses, to remain in compliance with our covenants under our debt instruments and to make future principal and interest payments in respect of our debt depends on, among other factors, our operating performance, competitive developments and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We are not able to control many of these factors. Given current industry and economic conditions, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt and meet our other obligations. For example, in October 2022 the Company determined not to make certain payments with respect to several of its debt facilities, equipment financing facilities and leases and other financings, including its two bridge promissory notes. As a result, the creditors under these debt facilities may exercise remedies following any applicable grace periods and pursuant to any confirmed plan of reorganization, including electing to accelerate the principal amount of such debt, suing the Company for nonpayment, increasing interest rates to default rates, or taking action with respect to collateral, where applicable. Although our credit and guarantee agreement (the Exit Credit Agreement), the indentures and forms of notes governing the New Secured Convertible Notes and the New Secured Notes (the New Indentures) and other existing indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and any additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Indebtedness subjects us to the risk of higher interest rates, which could cause our future debt service obligations to increase significantly. Our borrowings under the Exit Credit Agreement are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. Interest rates under these financing arrangements are generally determined by a Secured Overnight Financing (SOFR) based rate. SOFR-based rates tend to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the U.S. Federal Reserve and other central banks and general economic conditions. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on such variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our ability to make payments of principal and interest on the New Secured Notes and New Secured Convertible Notes (as well as on loans with respect to the Exit Credit Agreement) may be adversely impacted. We may incur additional indebtedness to execute our long-term growth strategy, which may reduce our profitability. Our business requires significant capital, and we may require additional capital in the future to execute our growth strategy. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we incurred approximately $16.2 million and $384.0 million in capital expenditures, respectively. Historically, we have financed these investments through cash flows from operation and external borrowings. These sources of capital may not be available to us in the future, and the Exit Credit Agreement, the New Indentures and other financing arrangements will place certain restrictions on our ability to enter into new debt arrangements. Our ability to arrange new financing, either at the corporate level, a non-recourse project-level subsidiary or otherwise, and the costs of such capital, are dependent on numerous factors, including credit availability from banks and other financial institutions, investor confidence in us and the regional markets in which we operate, maintenance of acceptable credit ratings or our financial performance and level of indebtedness. Other companies with which we compete may have greater liquidity, more unencumbered assets, less indebtedness, greater access to credit and other financial resources, lower cost structures, more effective risk management policies and procedures, greater ability to incur losses, longer-standing relationships with customers, or greater flexibility in the timing of their sale of generation capacity and ancillary services than we do. If we are unable to fund capital expenditures for any reason, we may not be able to capture available growth opportunities and any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 37 The Exit Credit Agreement, the New Indentures and the miner equipment lender facility (the New Miner Equipment Lender Facility) entered into in connection with the Plan of Reorganization contain a number of restrictive covenants which could limit our ability to finance future operations, acquisitions or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our interest. The Exit Credit Agreement, the New Indentures and the New Miner Equipment Lender Facility contain certain operating and other restrictions on us. Among other things, such restrictions affect and limit or prohibit our ability to: incur additional indebtedness; create or incur liens; engage in fundamental changes or changes of control; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; make investments or acquisitions; pay dividends and distributions or repurchase capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain subordinated indebtedness; create negative pledge clauses; and enter into transactions with affiliates. The restrictions contained in our debt agreements could (i) limit our ability to plan for or react to market or economic conditions or meet capital needs or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans and (ii) adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances or other capital needs or to engage in other business activities that would be in our interest. A breach of any of these covenants or our inability to comply with required financial ratios could result in a default under all or certain of our debt instruments. Risks Related to Taxes Our ability to use some or all of our net operating loss and capital loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset future income may be limited. As of December 31, 2023, we had U.S. federal and state net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $330.2 million and $106.6 million, respectively, U.S. federal and state capital loss carryforwards of approximately $220.3 million and $109.6 million, respectively, and certain other tax attributes, including disallowed business interest expense carryforwards under Section 163(j) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the Internal Revenue Code), that could be utilized to offset future taxable income. The amount of our tax attributes are subject to examination and adjustment by applicable taxing authorities. Our federal NOLs can be carried forward indefinitely, our state NOL carryforwards begin to expire in 2033 and our capital loss carryforwards begin to expire in 2027. Under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code, if a corporation (or a consolidated group) undergoes an ownership change, its ability to utilize certain of its federal tax attributes (including NOL and capital loss carryforwards) to offset certain of its taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain shareholders (generally 5% shareholders, applying certain look-through and aggregation rules) increases by more than 50% over such shareholders lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). Similar rules may apply under applicable state tax law. Certain equity trading activity and other actions prior to the Effective Date of the Plan of Reorganization could have resulted in an ownership change for purposes of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code independent of the Plan of Reorganization, which could adversely affect our ability to utilize our tax attributes to a greater extent than an ownership change occurring as a result of the consummation of the Plan of Reorganization. In an attempt to minimize the likelihood of such an ownership change occurring, we obtained a final order from the Bankruptcy Court authorizing certain protective equity trading procedures. It is likely that we will undergo an ownership change under Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code as a result of the consummation of the Plan of Reorganization, which may limit our ability to utilize our federal NOL and capital loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes, subject to the potential application of the special bankruptcy exception in Section 382(l)(5) of the Internal Revenue Code. We have not determined whether or not we would qualify for such special bankruptcy exception, and even if 38 we did so qualify, whether or not we would elect out of such exception. Further, even if the consummation of the Plan of Reorganization does not cause an ownership change, it could increase the likelihood that we undergo such an ownership change in the future. Limitations imposed by the Internal Revenue Code (or applicable state tax law) on our ability to utilize our NOL or capital loss carryforwards or other tax attributes (whether by reason of an ownership change or otherwise) could significantly increase our future tax liabilities, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such tax attributes, which may impair the value of an investment in our securities. The IRS and certain states have taken the position that digital assets are property for income tax purposes. In early 2014, the IRS issued basic guidance on the tax treatment of digital assets. The IRS has taken the position that a digital asset is property instead of currency for income tax purposes. As such, general tax principles applicable to property transactions apply to the acquisition, ownership, use, and disposition of digital assets. This overall treatment creates a potential tax liability for, and potential tax reporting requirements applicable to, us in any circumstance where we earn or otherwise acquire, mine, own, use, or dispose of a digital asset. In 2019, the IRS issued additional guidance specifically relating to the income tax consequences that could arise from a digital asset hard fork event in which a new unit of digital asset may or may not be received, and released frequently asked questions to address certain digital asset topics such as tax basis, gain, or loss on the sale or exchange of certain kinds of digital assets and how to determine the fair market value of such digital assets. There is no guarantee that the IRS will not alter its position with respect to the taxation of digital assets, or that legislation or judicial determinations in the future will not result in a tax treatment of digital assets and transactions in digital assets for tax purposes that differs from the treatment described above. You are urged to consult your own tax advisor as to the tax implications of our acquisition, ownership, use, and disposition of digital assets. The taxation of digital assets for state, local, or non-U.S. tax purposes may not be the same as the taxation of digital assets for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In addition, under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, as of January 1, 2018, like-kind exchange treatment does not apply to digital assets. This means that gain from the sale or exchange of digital assets cannot be deferred by undertaking an exchange of one type of virtual currency for another. Certain states, including New York and New Jersey, generally follow IRS guidance with respect to the treatment of digital assets for state income tax purposes, but it is unclear if other states will do so. Transactions involving digital assets for other goods and services may also be subject to sales and use or similar taxes under barter transaction treatment or otherwise. The treatment of digital assets for state income tax and sales tax purposes may have negative consequences, including the imposition of a greater tax burden on investors in digital assets or a higher cost with respect to the acquisition, ownership, use, and disposition of digital assets generally. In either case, this could have a negative effect on prices in the relevant digital asset exchange market and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Non-U.S. jurisdictions may also elect to treat digital assets in a manner that results in adverse tax consequences. To the extent a non-U.S. jurisdiction with a significant share of the market of digital asset owners or users imposes onerous tax burdens on such owners or users, or imposes sales, use, or value added tax on acquisitions and dispositions of digital assets for fiat currency, such actions could result in decreased demand for digital assets in such jurisdiction, which could impact the price of digital assets and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes to, or changes to interpretations of, the U.S. federal, state, local or other jurisdictional tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All statements contained herein concerning U.S. federal income tax (or other tax) consequences are based on existing law and interpretations thereof. The tax regimes to which we are subject or under which we operate, including income and non-income taxes, are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. While some of these changes could be beneficial, others could negatively affect our after-tax returns. In the future, the currently anticipated tax treatment may be modified by legislative, judicial or administrative changes, possibly with retroactive effect. In addition, a tax authority or court may not agree with any particular interpretation of the relevant laws. In 2022, significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws were proposed by the current presidential administration, including increasing the U.S. income tax rate applicable to corporations from 21% to 28% and changes implicating information reporting with respect to digital assets. Congress may include some or all of these proposals in future legislation. There is uncertainty regarding 39 whether these proposals will be enacted and, if enacted, their scope, when they would take effect, and whether they would have retroactive effect. State, local or other jurisdictions could impose, levy or otherwise enforce tax laws against us. Tax laws and regulations at the state and local levels frequently change, especially in relation to the interpretation of existing tax laws for new and emerging industries, and we cannot always reasonably predict the impact from, or the ultimate cost of compliance with, current or future taxes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Securities An investment in our securities is highly speculative. The trading price of our securities may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The trading price of our securities is likely to be volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. These fluctuations could cause you to lose all or part of your investment in our securities as you might be unable to sell your shares at or above the price you paid for those shares. Factors that could cause fluctuations in the trading price of our securities include the following: price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; volatility in the trading prices and trading volumes of technology stocks; volatility in the price of bitcoin and other digital assets; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; sales of shares of our securities by us or our stockholders; failure of securities analysts to maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in those projections, or our failure to meet those projections; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, features, or services; the publics reaction to our press releases, other public announcements and filings with the SEC; rumors and market speculation involving us or other companies in our industry; actual or anticipated changes in our results of operations or fluctuations in our results of operations; actual or anticipated developments in our business, our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; litigation involving us, our industry, or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; developments or disputes concerning our intellectual property or other proprietary rights; announced or completed acquisitions of businesses, products, services or technologies by us or our competitors; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; any significant change in our management; and general economic conditions and slow or negative growth of our markets. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a particular companys securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. Future sales and issuances of our capital stock or rights to purchase capital stock could result in additional dilution of the percentage ownership of our stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline. 40 We may issue additional securities, including shares of New Common Stock as a result of the conversion or exercise, as applicable, of the New Secured Convertible Notes, the New Warrants, options or restricted stock units (RSUs). In addition, the Company may choose to issue shares of New Common Stock pursuant to the CVRs or as interest on the New Secured Convertible Notes. Future sales and issuances of our capital stock or rights to purchase our capital stock could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. We may issue and sell New Common Stock, convertible securities, warrants and other equity securities in one or more transactions at prices and in a manner as we may determine from time to time. If we sell any such securities in subsequent transactions, investors may be materially diluted. New investors in such subsequent transactions could gain rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our New Common Stock. In addition, we have agreed to register the resale of a significant number of shares of our capital stock held by certain of our stockholders, including Bitmain. As a result of these agreements, capital stock held by these stockholders may become eligible for future sale without restriction. Accordingly, these stockholders then may freely resell their shares in the open market, which could cause our stock price to decline. The market price and trading volume of our securities could decline if securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business. The trading market for our securities will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. The analysts estimates are based upon their own opinions and are often different from our estimates or expectations. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our securities or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our securities would likely decline. If few securities analysts commence coverage of us, or if one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our securities could decrease, which might cause the price and trading volume of our securities to decline. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared nor paid cash dividends on our capital stock. Our New Secured Notes and our Exit Credit Agreement restrict our ability to pay dividends and we currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, stockholders must rely on sales of their securities after price appreciation as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. We qualify as an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, and if we take advantage of certain exemptions from disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies, such decision could make our securities less attractive to investors and may make it more difficult to compare our performance to the performance of other public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act, as modified by the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act). As such, we are eligible for and intend to take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, including, but not limited to, (a) not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, (b) exemptions resulting in reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in the Companys periodic reports and proxy statements and (c) exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following February 12, 2026, the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of common equity securities of the Company in a registered offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.235 billion or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates meets or exceeds $700.0 million as of the prior June 30th and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period. We cannot predict whether investors will find our securities less attractive because of our reliance on these exemptions. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on these exemptions, the trading prices of our securities may be lower than they otherwise would be, there may be a less active trading market for our securities and the trading prices of our securities may be more volatile. Further, Section 102(b)(1) of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from being required to comply with new or revised financial accounting standards until private companies (that is, those that have not had a Securities Act registration statement declared effective or do not have a class of securities registered under the Exchange Act) are required to comply with the new or revised financial accounting standards. The JOBS Act provides that a company can elect to opt out of the extended transition period and comply with the requirements that apply to non-emerging growth companies, but that any such an election to opt out is 41 irrevocable. We have elected not to opt out of such extended transition period, which means that when a standard is issued or revised and it has different application dates for public or private companies, we, as an emerging growth company, can adopt the new or revised standard at the time private companies adopt the new or revised standard. This may make comparison of our financial statements with those of another public company, which is neither an emerging growth company nor an emerging growth company which has opted out of the extended transition period, difficult or impossible because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Risk Management and Strategy We are subject to various cybersecurity risks that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including intellectual property theft; fraud; extortion; harm to employees or customers; violation of privacy laws and other litigation and legal risk; and reputational risk. We have implemented a risk-based approach, guided by Federal Information Processing Standards Publication 199, to identify, classify, and appropriately assess the range of cybersecurity threats that could affect our business and information systems. Accordingly, security incidents are evaluated, classified by severity and prioritized for response, mitigation and remediation. From a high level, our incident response framework consists of five elements: (1) proactively identifying and appropriately managing cybersecurity risks to our systems, assets, data, and other capabilities; (2) designing and implementing the appropriate safeguards to timely deliver business services; (3) implementing systems and processes to detect the occurrence of cybersecurity events; (4) responding to events in a systematic and comprehensive fashion; and (5) utilizing mechanisms to promote system resilience and the restoration of critical business functions that may have been impaired due to a security incident. Our cybersecurity program is aligned with industry standards and best practices, such as the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity Framework. Fundamentally, our information security program is tasked with developing pragmatic strategies for preserving the confidentiality, integrity and availability of Company and customer information. Pursuant to this approach, we have implemented controls to prevent, detect and mitigate cybersecurity risks posed by third parties. We use various tools and methodologies, including a written incident response plan and cybersecurity insurance, to manage and mitigate cybersecurity risk. Those tools and methodologies are evaluated on a regular and continuing basis. We also monitor and evaluate our cybersecurity posture and performance on an ongoing basis through regular vulnerability scans, penetration tests and threat intelligence feeds. Through both short-term game day events and more prolonged campaigns, red team programming is designed to continuously stress test the fortitude of our information security systems and assist in identifying areas of potential vulnerability. Based on the results of these simulated exercises, we aim to harden any identified exposure points and adjust our security processes to ensure dynamism and responsiveness. Along with our in-house cybersecurity capabilities, we also periodically engage third parties to assist with detecting and responding to cybersecurity risks. Third parties may be engaged to assist with procedures including red and blue team training exercises and penetration testing. We require third-party service providers with access to personal, confidential or proprietary information to implement and maintain comprehensive cybersecurity practices consistent with applicable legal standards and industry best practices. Amongst other controls, we maintain policies and practices that monitor, regulate and limit remote access of our information systems. Our business depends on the availability, reliability, and security of our information systems, networks, data, and intellectual property. Any disruption, compromise, or breach of our systems or data due to a cybersecurity threat or incident could adversely affect our operations, customer service, product development, and competitive position. They may also result in a breach of our contractual obligations or legal duties to protect the privacy and confidentiality of our stakeholders. Such a breach could expose us to business interruption, lost revenue, ransom payments, remediation costs, liabilities to affected parties, cybersecurity protection costs, lost assets, litigation, regulatory scrutiny and actions, reputational harm, customer dissatisfaction, harm to our vendor relationships, or loss of market share. To date, we have not identified any risks from cybersecurity threats, including as a result of any previous cybersecurity incidents, that have, or are likely to, materially affect us, our business strategy, results of operation or financial condition. For more information on the risks from cybersecurity threats that we face, refer to Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including but not limited to the risk factors titled, We may be vulnerable to both physical and cybersecurity breaches, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations 42 and We may be exposed to cybersecurity threats and breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Governance Our information security team is led by our Chief Information Security Officer and is comprised of dedicated professionals responsible for overseeing cybersecurity risk management and mitigation, incident prevention, detection and remediation. These teams are spearheaded by professionals with decades of cybersecurity leadership experience across multiple industries, including our Chief Technology Officer. Our leadership working group meets on a weekly basis to discuss our approach to the rapidly-evolving cybersecurity landscape. To ensure that our top-level strategy is disseminated throughout the Company, our information security team provides hands-on and often role-specific training and awareness programs to our employees. Our employees with network access participate annually in required training, including spear phishing and other awareness training. We also periodically conduct simulated phishing exercises to practice appropriate response and augment employee awareness of established and emerging cyber threats. One of the key functions of our Board of Directors is informed oversight of our risk management process, including cybersecurity risk. Our Board of Directors considers cybersecurity risk and mitigation as a critical component of its risk oversight function and intends to further develop specific cybersecurity oversight functions and protocols. Our Board of Directors administers this oversight function directly through the Board of Directors as a whole, as well as through various standing committees of our Board of Directors, including the Audit Committee, that address risks inherent in their respective areas of oversight. In particular, our Board of Directors is responsible for monitoring and assessing strategic risk exposure and our Audit Committee has the responsibility to consider and discuss our major financial risk exposures and the steps our management has taken to monitor and control these exposures, including guidelines and policies to govern the process by which risk assessment and management is undertaken. The Audit Committee also monitors compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and is charged with oversight of the adequacy of Companys insurance programs, including cyber insurance. Item 2. Properties. Our corporate headquarters is located at 838 Walker Road, Suite 21-2105, Dover, Delaware 19904. In addition, we earn bitcoin through mining for our own account and for third-party hosting customers at our owned and leased facilities in Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, North Dakota, and Texas. We lease with an option to purchase at a nominal amount our facility in North Dakota. We also own property in Oklahoma that remains substantially undeveloped. We believe that our facilities are suitable and adequate to meet our current and anticipated near-term needs. Please refer to the discussions contained in our Item 1. Business for additional information. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are involved in lawsuits and other contingencies in the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of such contingencies cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe that the liabilities arising from these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. However, to the extent the liability arising from the ultimate resolution of any matter exceeds our estimates reflected in the recorded reserves relating to such matter, we could incur additional charges that could be significant. For a description of our material pending legal proceedings, please see Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies, to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Please refer to the discussions contained in our Item 1. Business under the subtitle Emergence from Bankruptcy; Item 1A. Risk Factors; Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities; Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the subtitles Recent Developments and Chapter 11 Filing and Other Related Matters - Pre-Emergence; and our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements; as well as elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding the commencement of the aforementioned Companys emergence from bankruptcy and satisfaction and extinguishment of claims in the Chapter 11 Cases. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. Part II 43 Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information and Holders Our old common stock and old warrants were traded on OTC Markets under the symbols CORZQ and CRZWQ. through the year ended December 31, 2023. Any over-the-counter market quotations reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not necessarily represent actual transactions. As of January 24, 2024, in connection with the effectiveness of the Plan of Reorganization our New Common Stock and New Warrants are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbols CORZ, CORZW and CORZZ, respectively. On March 7, 2024, there were 418 holders of record of our New Common Stock, 367 holders of record of our Tranche 1 Warrants and 370 holders of record of our Tranche 2 Warrants. We believe a substantially greater number of beneficial owners hold shares of New Common Stock and New Warrants through brokers, banks or other nominees. Dividends The Company has not paid dividends on its common stock to date and does not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. In addition, our New Secured Notes and our Exit Credit Agreement restrict our ability to pay dividends. The payment of cash dividends in the future will be dependent upon the terms of agreements restricting our ability to pay dividends, revenues and earnings, if any, capital requirements and general financial condition and the discretion of the Companys Board of Directors. It is the present intention of the Companys Board of Directors to retain all earnings, if any, for use in the Companys business operations and, accordingly, the Board of Directors does not anticipate declaring any dividends in the foreseeable future. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities There were no sales of unregistered securities during the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, other than those previously reported in a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or in a Current Report on Form 8-K. On the Effective Date, pursuant to the Plan of Reorganization, the Company issued, or will issue: 176,266,782 shares of New Common Stock; 180,241,211 New Warrants; New Secured Convertible Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $260.0 million; New Secured Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $150.0 million; 51,783,625 Contingent Value Rights (CVRs); and General Unsecured Claims (GUC) CVRs. Please refer to the discussions contained in our Item 1. Business for additional information regarding our emergence from bankruptcy. Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities Not applicable. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company repurchased shares of its previously-issued common stock as follows: Period Total number of shares (or units) purchased Average price paid per share (or unit) December 2023 4,086 $ 0.89 Total 4,086 $ 0.89 44 The above table contains information about shares of our previously-issued common stock withheld from employees in connection with income tax obligations related to the vesting of stock-based awards. Item 6. [Reserved] 45 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Unless the context otherwise requires, all references in this section to we, us, our, the Company, Core Scientific, or Core refer to Core Scientific Holding Co. and its subsidiaries prior to the consummation of the Business Combination (as defined below) and Core Scientific, Inc. (f/k/a Power & Digital Infrastructure Acquisition Corp.) and its subsidiaries after the consummation of the Business Combination. References to XPDI refer to the predecessor registrant prior to the consummation of the Business Combination. The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to promote understanding of the results of operations and financial condition. This MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying Notes to Financial Statements (Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K). This section generally discusses the results of operations for 2023 compared to 2022. For discussion related to the results of operations and changes in consolidated financial condition for 2022 compared to 2021 refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our fiscal year 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the SEC on April 4, 2023. As discussed in the section titled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview Core Scientific is a best-in-class large-scale operator of dedicated, purpose-built facilities for digital asset mining and a premier provider of blockchain infrastructure, software solutions and services. We employ our own large fleet of computers (miners), primarily manufactured by Bitmain Technologies Limited (Bitmain), to produce bitcoin for our own account and provide hosting services for large bitcoin mining customers at our seven operational data centers in Georgia (2), Kentucky (1), North Carolina (1), North Dakota (1) and Texas (2). We derive the majority of our revenue from earning bitcoin for our own account (self-mining). We began digital asset mining at scale in 2018 and in 2020 became one of the largest North American providers of hosting services for third-party mining customers. As of December 31, 2023, we had an average hourly operating power demand of approximately 592 MW for the year, and we had secured approximately 1,198 MW of contracted power capacity at our sites. We also owned and managed the largest infrastructure asset base of publicly listed miners in North America of 724 MW and improved our average self-mining fleet energy efficiency to 27.94 joules per terahash. Although our business operations date back to 2018 (and was known as Core Scientific (Legacy Core)), the current corporate entity operating our business was formerly known asPower & Digital Infrastructure Acquisition Corp. (XPDI) which was a special purpose acquisition corporation formed for the purpose of acquiring an operating business such as Legacy Core. On July 20, 2021, XPDI, Core Scientific Holding Co., and XPDI Merger Sub entered into a merger agreement (the Merger Agreement) which provided for business combination transactions (the Business Combination) pursuant to which the business of Legacy Core was combined with XPDI and XPDI changed its name to Core Scientific, Inc. (New Core or the Company).XPDIs stockholders approved the transactions contemplated by the Business Combination at a special meeting of stockholders held on January 19, 2022. For more detailed information regarding the Business Combination, refer to Note 4 Business Combinations, Acquisitions and Restructuring to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our total revenue was $502.4 million and $640.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We had operating income of $9.0 million and operating loss of $2.1 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase of $2.12 billion in operating income was predominantly due to a $1.06 billion impairment of goodwill and other intangibles and a $590.7 million impairment of property, plant and equipment for the year ended December 31, 2023, a $226.9 million decrease in impairment of digital assets year over year, as well as higher total operating expenses of $144.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. We had a net loss of $246.5 million and $2.15 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) was $170.0 million and $(10.7) million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measure below for our definition of, and additional information related to, Adjusted EBITDA. 46 Recent Developments On January 15, 2024, the Debtors filed with the Bankruptcy Court (both defined below) the Fourth Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Core Scientific, Inc. and its Affiliated Debtors (with Technical Modifications) (the Plan of Reorganization). On January 16, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan of Reorganization (the Confirmation Order). On January 23, 2024 (the Effective Date), the conditions to the effectiveness of the Plan of Reorganization were satisfied or waived and the Company emerged from bankruptcy. On the Effective Date, a new Board of Directors (the Board of Directors) was constituted and the Company, in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization satisfied and extinguished claims in the Chapter 11 Cases (as defined below) through the issuance of (i) new common stock (New Common Stock), (ii) new warrants (New Warrants), (iii) contingent value rights (CVRs), (iv) new secured convertible notes due 2029 (New Secured Convertible Notes), and (v) new secured notes due 2028 (New Secured Notes). For more detailed information regarding the Chapter 11 Cases, refer to Notes 3 Chapter 11 Filing and Other Related Matters and 17 Subsequent Events to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. On March 6, 2024, the Company announced a multi-year contract for Core Scientific to supply up to 16 MW of data center infrastructure to CoreWeave, Inc. The total potential revenue associated with the contract is more than $100 million. Under the terms of the contract, Core Scientific will deliver up to 16 MW of capacity at its new Austin, Texas data center to host CoreWeave, Inc.s infrastructure. Core Scientific is leasing a tier 3 data center in Austin that formerly housed Hewlett Packard to include high performance computing. Chapter 11 Filing and Other Related Matters - Pre-Emergence Chapter 11 On December 21, 2022, the Company and certain of its affiliates (collectively, the Debtors) filed voluntary petitions (the Chapter 11 Cases) in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas (the Bankruptcy Court) seeking relief under Chapter 11 of the United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code). The Chapter 11 Cases were jointly administered under Case No. 22-90341. The Debtors operated their business and managed their properties as debtors-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Bankruptcy Court. For detailed discussion about the Chapter 11 Cases, refer to Note 3 Chapter 11 Filing and Other Related Matters to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Original DIP Credit Agreement and Restructuring Support Agreement In connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, the Debtors entered into a senior secured super-priority debtor-in-possession loan and security agreement, dated as of December 22, 2022 (the Original DIP Credit Agreement), with Wilmington Savings Fund Society, FSB, as administrative agent, and the lenders from time-to-time party thereto (collectively, the Original DIP Lenders). The Original DIP Lenders are also holders or affiliates, partners or investors of holders under the Companys notes sold pursuant to (i) the Secured Convertible Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of April 19, 2021 (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time), by and among Core Scientific, Inc. (as successor of Core Scientific Holding Co.), the guarantors party thereto from time to time, U.S. Bank National Association, as note agent and collateral agent, and the purchasers of the notes issued thereunder (the Secured Convertible Notes), and (ii) the Convertible Note Purchase Agreement, dated as of August 20, 2021, (as amended, restated, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time), by and among Core Scientific, Inc. (as successor of Core Scientific Holding Co.), the guarantors party thereto from time to time, U.S. Bank National Association, as note agent and collateral agent, and the purchasers of the notes issued thereunder (together with the Secured Convertible Notes, the Convertible Notes). Also in connection with the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Company entered into a restructuring support agreement (together with all exhibits and schedules thereto, the Restructuring Support Agreement) with the ad hoc group of noteholders, representing more than 70% of the holders of the Convertible Notes (the Ad Hoc Noteholder Group) pursuant to which the Ad Hoc Noteholder Group agreed to provide commitments for a debtor-in-possession facility (the Original DIP Facility) of more than $57 million and agreed to support the syndication of up to an additional $18 million in new money debtor-in-possession facility loans to all holders of Convertible Notes. The Company terminated the Restructuring Support Agreement pursuant to a fiduciary out which permitted the Company to pursue better alternatives. 47 Replacement DIP Credit Agreement On February 2, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an interim order authorizing, among other things, the Debtors to obtain senior secured non-priming super-priority replacement post-petition financing (the Replacement DIP Facility). On February 27, 2023, the Debtors entered into a senior secured super-priority replacement debtor-in-possession loan and security agreement governing the Replacement DIP Facility (the Replacement DIP Credit Agreement), with B. Riley Commercial Capital, LLC, as administrative agent (the Administrative Agent), and the lenders from time to time party thereto (collectively, the Replacement DIP Lender). Proceeds of the Replacement DIP Facility were used to, among other things, repay amounts outstanding under the Original DIP Facility, including payment of all fees and expenses required to be paid under the terms of the Original DIP Facility. These funds, along with ongoing cash generated from operations, were anticipated to provide the necessary financing to effectuate the planned restructuring, facilitate the emergence from Chapter 11, and cover the fees and expenses of legal and financial advisors. The Replacement DIP Facility, among other things, provides for a non-amortizing super-priority senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount not to exceed $70 million. Under the Replacement DIP Facility, (i) $35 million was made available following Bankruptcy Court approval of the Interim DIP Order and (ii) $35 million was made available following Bankruptcy Court approval of the Final DIP Order. Loans under the Replacement DIP Facility will bear interest at a rate of 10%, which will be payable in kind in arrears on the first day of each calendar month. The Administrative Agent received an upfront payment equal to 3.5% of the aggregate commitments under the Replacement DIP Facility on February 3, 2023, payable in kind, and the Replacement DIP Lender will receive an exit premium equal to 5% of the amount of the loans being repaid, reduced or satisfied, payable in cash. The Replacement DIP Credit Agreement includes representations and warranties, covenants applicable to the Debtors, and events of default. If an event of default under the Replacement DIP Credit Agreement occurs, the Administrative Agent may, among other things, permanently reduce any remaining commitments and declare the outstanding obligations under the Replacement DIP Credit Agreement to be immediately due and payable. In January 2024, the Replacement DIP Facility was repaid in full and terminated on the Effective Date of the Companys Plan of Reorganization. NYDIG Settlement On February 26, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order whereby the Debtors and NYDIG agreed that the Debtors would transfer the miners serving as collateral under the NYDIG Loan back to NYDIG over a period of several months in exchange for the full extinguishment of the NYDIG Loan. The final shipment of miners that served as collateral under the NYDIG Loan occurred during the quarter ended March 31, 2023, after which the NYDIG Loan was extinguished in full and the Company recorded a $20.8 million Gain on debt extinguishment in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Priority Power Settlement On March 20, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order (the Priority Power Order), whereby the Debtors and Priority Power Management, LLC (Priority Power) agreed that the Debtors would transfer equipment to Priority Power and assume an Energy Management and Consulting Services Agreement and other new agreements. Priority Power was determined to have a single aggregate allowed claim of $20.8 million which was secured by a perfected mechanics lien. The claim was deemed paid and fully satisfied by transfer of specific equipment from the Debtors to Priority Power on the date of the Priority Power Order, thereby releasing all Priority Power liens. The satisfaction of the obligation and transfer of the equipment is a noncash transaction which resulted in a gain of $4.9 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. City of Denton Lease Settlement On August 16, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to settle all claims of City of Denton and Denton Municipal Electric (Denton) against the Debtors and releasing any and all liens related to the Debtors lease of the Denton facility in exchange for the Debtors execution lease cure costs totaling $1.5 million. There was no impact to the Consolidated Statements of Operations as a result of the satisfaction of the settlement. Huband-Mantor Construction Settlement On August 18, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to settle all claims of Huband-Mantor Construction (HMC) and its subcontractors against the Debtors and releasing any and all liens in favor of HMC and its 48 subcontractors in exchange for the Debtors payment of $2 million and the Debtors execution of a promissory note in favor of HMC in the principal amount of $15.5 million. The promissory note is secured by a mortgage of the Debtors Cottonwood 1 facility in Texas. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a loss of $8.3 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. For more information on the promissory note, refer to Note 7 Notes Payable to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Celsius Mining LLC Settlement On September 14, 2023, the Debtors and Celsius Mining LLC (Celsius) entered into a purchase and sale agreement, as amended, (the PSA) that provides in addition to a full mutual release of claims asserted against each party in the respective bankruptcy cases for a cash payment by Celsius to the Company of $14.0 million and a full and final release of all claims of Celsius against the Debtors related to the Celsius Contracts, in exchange for the Debtors (i) sale to Celsius of the Debtors Ward County, Texas bitcoin mining data center site (the Cedarvale Facility) and certain related assets, (ii) grant to Celsius of a perpetual, non-transferable (except as described in Section 14 of the PSA), non-exclusive limited license to use identified Company intellectual property solely as and to the extent necessary to (x) finish construction and development of the Cedarvale Facility, (y) develop and construct other mining facilities on other properties owned or leased by Celsius similar in type and scope to the Cedarvale Facility, and (z) operate all of the foregoing, (iii) assumption and assignment to Celsius of certain executory contracts, and (iv) unequivocal release of claims against Celsius asserted by the Company in connection with the Celsius Chapter 11 Cases and the Companys Chapter 11 Cases. On November 2, 2023, the Company received the payment of $14.0 million from Celsius in connection with the PSA. The sale of the Cedarvale Facility resulted in a loss of $2.2 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Refer to Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the sale. ACM ELF ST LLC Lease Settlement In September 2023, the Company entered into a $7.5 million equipment finance agreement with ACM ELF ST LLC in settlement and satisfaction of a previous equipment finance agreement which resulted in a gain of $5.0 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. See Note 7 Notes Payable to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion ofthe promissory note. J.W. Didado Electric, LLC Settlement On October 2, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to settle all claims of J.W. Didado Electric, LLC (Didado) against the Debtors and releasing any and all liens related to the Debtors Muskogee datacenter in exchange for the Debtors execution of an unsecured promissory note in favor of Didado in the principal amount of $13.0 million to be paid over 36 months upon emergence from bankruptcy. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a loss of $0.7 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Trilogy LLC Settlement On October 2, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to settle all claims of Trilogy LLC (Trilogy) against the Debtors and releasing any and all liens related to the Trilogy contracts in exchange for the Debtors execution of an unsecured promissory note in favor of Trilogy in the principal amount of $2.9 million to be paid over 30 months starting three months after the confirmation date. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a gain of $0.4 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Harper Construction Company, Inc. Settlement On November 4, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to settle all claims of Harper Construction Company, Inc (Harper) against the Debtors and releasing any and all liens related to the Debtors Muskogee datacenter in exchange for the Debtors execution of an unsecured promissory note in favor of Harper in the principal amount of $4.7 million to be paid over 30 months starting forty-five days after the emergence date. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a loss of 49 $5.0 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Dalton Settlement On December 29, 2023, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to settle all claims of Dalton Utilities (Dalton) against the Debtors including the Dalton cure claims in exchange for Debtors execution of an unsecured promissory note. As of December 31, 2023, the Company accrued the face value of the pending settlement of $9.1 million as the execution of the promissory note is still pending. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a gain of $1.1 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Maddox Settlement On January 16, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to terminate and reject all existing purchase orders and enter into a new purchase order. Pursuant to the new purchase order, the Company will pay a total purchase price of $2.8 million in seven equal monthly installments to Maddox Industrial Transformer LLC for 39 18 kilovolt transformers. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a loss of $1.3 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Sphere 3D Corp. and Gryphon Settlement On January 16, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting Sphere 3D Corp. (Sphere) an allowed $10 million general unsecured claim and a complete and final release of all claims of Sphere and Gryphon Digital Mining, Inc. (Gryphon) against the Debtors related to the hosting contracts. As part of the resolution, all miners have been returned to the client. Furthermore, the adversary proceeding was dismissed with prejudice, against both Gryphon and Sphere. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a gain of $23.3 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. McCarthy & Humphrey Settlement On January 18, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order approving the parties agreement to settle all claims and release all liens of McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. (McCarthy) and Humphrey & Associates, Inc. (Humphrey) against the Company in exchange for cash payments ($6.8 million to McCarthy and $5.6 million to Humphrey) within 90 days of emergence and promissory notes (to McCarthy in principal amount of $5.4 million and to Humphrey in principal amount of $1.4 million). However, if the Company delivers notice to McCarthy to proceed with construction activities, the Company will make the cash payments within three business days of such notice and pay off the promissory notes in full within one business day of such notice. As the amount of the expected settlement results in amounts that are estimable and probable, the Company accrued for those liabilities as of December 31, 2023. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a loss of $4.6 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Foundry Settlement On January 16, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting Foundry Digital LLC (Foundry) an allowed $5.5 million general unsecured claim and a comprehensive release of all claims of Foundry against the Debtors. Concurrently, hosting contracts are assumed, and common stock in Core after emergence from bankruptcy have been confirmed as part of the resolution. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a gain of $12.6 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. Oklahoma Gas & Electric Settlement On January 24, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order granting Oklahoma Gas & Electric Company (OG&E) an allowed $4.8 million general unsecured claim in full and final satisfaction of all claims of OG&E against the Debtors. The satisfaction of the settlement resulted in a loss of $4.8 million recorded to Reorganization items, net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2023. 50 Our Business Model Business Overview As a large-scale bitcoin digital asset miner and provider of blockchain solutions, we believe that we are well positioned to serve customers in a rapidly expanding market for digital asset mining and blockchain solutions. We believe that the adoption and mainstream use of bitcoin and the blockchain technology on which it is based has accelerated the demand for bitcoin and other digital currencies. As one of the largest owner operators of infrastructure for digital asset mining in North America, we focus primarily on mining bitcoin and selling the bitcoin generated for cash and activities directly related to growing our mining capabilities (increasing the number of bitcoin mined) and enhancing efficiencies in our operations (reducing our cost to mine).Our rapidly growing digital asset mining operation is focused on the generation of digital assets by solving complex cryptographic algorithms to validate transactions on specific digital asset network blockchains, which is commonly referred to as mining. Our digital asset self-mining activity competes with myriad mining operations throughout the world to complete new blocks in the blockchain and earn the reward in the form of an established unit of a digital asset. The terms of our debt agreements currently require that we sell our digital assets as we receive them, and we typically use the proceeds to fund our growth strategies or for general corporate purposes. We also provide hosting services for large bitcoin mining customers at our seven operational data centers in Georgia (2), Kentucky (1), North Carolina (1), North Dakota (1) and Texas (2). Our proprietary data centers in Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, North Dakota, and Texas are purpose-built facilities optimized for the unique requirements of high density bitcoin mining computers. We currently have seven fully operational data centers in Georgia (2), Kentucky (1), North Carolina (1), North Dakota (1) and Texas (2), with approximately 592 MW of average hourly operating electric power demand for the year ended December 31, 2023. Our existing, completed facilities lever our specialized construction proficiency by employing high-density, low-cost engineering and power designs. Our proprietary thermodynamic system manages heat and airflow to deliver best-in-class uptime and, ultimately, increasing mining rewards to us and our customers. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 1,198 MW of contracted power capacity at our sites. We continually evaluate our mining performance, including our ability to access additional megawatts of electric power and to expand our total self-mining and customer and related party hosting hash rates. We may explore additional mining facilities and mining arrangements in connection with our short-, medium- and long-term strategic planning. Segments We have two operating segments: Mining, consisting of bitcoin self-mining, and Hosting, consisting of our third-party hosting business. Our Mining operation segment generates revenue from operating our own mining computers as part of a pool of users that process transactions conducted on one or more blockchain networks. In exchange for this activity, we receive digital assets in the form of bitcoin. Our Hosting operation segment generates revenue through the sale of electricity-based consumption contracts for our hosting services, which are recurring in nature. During 2022, our Hosting segment also included sales of mining equipment to customers and was referred to as Hosting and Equipment Sales. We derived equipment sales revenue from our ability to lever our partnerships with leading equipment manufacturers to secure equipment in advance, which we then sold to our customers when they were unable to obtain them otherwise. Mining Equipment We own and host specialized computers (miners) configured for the purpose of validating transactions on multiple digital asset network blockchains (referred to as, mining), predominantly the Bitcoin network. Substantially all of the miners we own and host were manufactured by Bitmain and incorporate application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips specialized to solve blocks on the bitcoin blockchains using the 256-bit secure hashing algorithm (SHA-256) in return for bitcoin digital asset rewards. We have entered into and facilitated agreements with vendors to supply mining equipment for our digital asset mining operations. The majority of our purchases are made on multi-month contracts with installment payments due in advance of scheduled deliveries. Delivery schedules have ranged from one month to 12 months. We currently have two active purchase agreements with Bitmain. The first agreement is for the acquisition of Antminer S19J XP miners with a combined exahash of 4.08 or 28,400 miners to be delivered from the fourth quarter of 2023 through early 2024. The second agreement is for the acquisition of Antminer S21 miners with a combined exahash of 2.52 or approximately 12,900 miners to be delivered during the first half of 2024. We are accelerating the delivery and deployment of the Antminer S21 miners. As of December 31, 2023, we are current on our payment commitments under both agreements. As of the reporting date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have completed payment on all new bitcoin miners ordered for 2024. 51 As of December 31, 2023, we had deployed approximately 209,100 bitcoin miners, which number consists of approximately 158,000 self-miners and approximately 51,100 hosted miners, which represented 16.9 EH/s and 6.3 EH/s for self-miners and hosted miners, respectively. The tables below summarize the total number of self- and hosted miners in operation as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively (miners in thousands). Bitcoin Miners in Operation as of December 31, 2023 Mining Equipment Hash rate (EH/s) Number of Miners Self-miners 16.9 158.0 Hosted miners 6.3 51.1 Total mining equipment 23.2 209.1 Bitcoin Miners in Operation as of December 31, 2022 Mining Equipment Hash rate (EH/s) Number of Miners Self-miners 15.7 153.0 Hosted miners 8.0 81.0 Total mining equipment 23.7 234.0 During the fourth quarter of December 31, 2022, the hosting contracts for 24 customers, (including two related-party customers) were terminated. The previously hosted ASIC servers were removed from our data center facilities and returned to the customers. Summary of Digital Asset Activity Activity related to our digital asset balances for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 were as follows (in thousands): December 31, 2023 December 31, 2022 Digital assets, beginning of period $ 724 $ 234,298 Digital asset mining revenue, net of receivables* 389,456 397,796 Mining proceeds from shared hosting 17,626 Proceeds from sales of digital assets (404,686) (444,353) Gain from sales of digital assets 3,886 44,298 Impairment of digital assets (4,406) (231,315) Payment of board fee (316) Digital assets, end of period $ 2,284 $ 724 *As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, there was $1.7 million and $0.8 million, respectively, of digital asset receivable from our mining pool customer included in Prepaid expenses and other current assets on the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. Performance Metrics Hash Rate Miners perform computational operations in support of digital asset blockchains measured in hash rate or hashes per second. A hash is the computation run by mining hardware in support of the blockchain; therefore, a miners hash rate refers to the rate at which it is capable of solving such computations. The equipment originally employed for mining bitcoin used the Central Processing Unit (CPU) of a computer to mine various forms of digital assets. Due to performance limitations, CPU mining was rapidly replaced by the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU), which offers significant performance advantages over CPUs. General purpose chipsets like CPUs and GPUs have since been replaced as the standard in the mining industry by ASIC chips such as those found in the miners we and our customers use to mine bitcoin (although they continue to have uses in other industries). These ASIC chips are designed specifically to maximize the rate of hashing operations. 52 Network Hash Rate In digital asset mining, hash rate is a measure of the processing speed at which a mining computer operates in its attempt to secure a specific digital asset. A participant in a blockchain networks mining function has a hash rate equivalent to the total of all its miners seeking to mine a specific digital asset. System-wide, the total network hash rate reflects the sum total of all miners seeking to mine each specific type of digital asset. A participants higher total hash rate relative to the system-wide total hash rate generally results in a corresponding higher success rate in digital asset rewards over time as compared to mining participants with relatively lower total hash rates. However, as the relative market price for a digital asset, such as bitcoin, increases, more users are incentivized to mine for that digital asset, which increases the networks overall hash rate. As a result, a mining participant must increase its total hash rate in order to maintain its relative possibility of solving a block on the network blockchain. Achieving greater hash rate power by deploying increasingly sophisticated miners in ever greater quantities has become one of the bitcoin mining industrys great sources of competition. Our goal is to deploy a powerful fleet of self- and hosted-miners, while operating as energy-efficiently as possible. The Business Combination and Public Company Costs The merger of Legacy Core and XPDI provided gross proceeds of approximately $221.6 million from the XPDI trust account, resulting in approximately $201.0 million in net cash proceeds to Core Scientific, after the payment of transaction expenses. As a result of the merger, former Core Scientific stockholders owned 90.7%, former XPDI public stockholders owned 6.7% and XPDIs sponsor owned 2.6% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, respectively, of the Company, excluding the impact of unvested restricted stock units and options. The proceeds from the merger were used to fund mining equipment purchases and infrastructure build-out as the Company expanded its leadership position. As a result of the merger, among other things, each outstanding share of Legacy Core common stock was cancelled in exchange for the right to receive 1.6001528688 of a share of the Companys common stock. The merger was accounted for as a reverse recapitalization and XPDI was treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. Legacy Core was deemed the predecessor and Core Scientific, Inc., the post-combination company, is the successor SEC registrant, meaning that Legacy Cores financial statements for periods prior to the consummation of the merger are disclosed in Core Scientifics periodic reports. As a consequence of the merger, the Company and XPDI collectively incurred an aggregate of $39.0 million in professional fees associated with legal services, M&A advisor fees, financial advice, due diligence, and other deal-related costs. These transaction costs were allocated to all instruments assumed or issued in the merger on a relative fair value basis as of the date of the merger. Transaction costs allocated to equity-classified instruments were recognized as an adjustment to additional paid-in capital within total stockholders equity while transaction costs allocated to liability-classified instruments that were subsequently measured at fair value through earnings were expensed in the first quarter of 2022. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Market Price of Digital Assets Our business is heavily dependent on the spot price of bitcoin, as well as other digital assets. The prices of digital assets, specifically bitcoin, have experienced substantial volatility, which may reflect bubble type volatility, meaning that high or low prices may have little or no relationship to identifiable market forces, may be subject to rapidly changing investor sentiment, and may be influenced by factors such as technology, regulatory void or changes, fraudulent actors, manipulation, and media reporting. Bitcoin (as well as other digital assets) may have value based on various factors, including their acceptance as a means of exchange by consumers and others, scarcity, and market demand. Our financial performance and continued growth depend in large part on our ability to mine for digital assets profitably and to attract customers for our hosting services. Increases in power costs, inability to mine digital assets efficiently and to sell digital assets at favorable prices will reduce our operating margins, impact our ability to attract customers for our services, may harm our growth prospects and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Over time, we have observed a positive trend in the total market capitalization of digital assets, which suggests increased adoption. However, historical trends are not indicative of future adoption, and it is possible that the adoption of digital assets and blockchain technology may slow, take longer to develop, or never be broadly adopted, which would negatively impact our business and operating results. 53 Network Hash Rate Our business is not only impacted by the volatility in digital asset prices, but also by increases in the competition for digital asset production. For bitcoin, this increased competition is described as the network hash rate resulting from the growth in the overall quantity and quality of miners working to solve blocks on the bitcoin blockchain, and the difficulty index associated with the secure hashing algorithm employed in solving the blocks. Difficulty The increase in bitcoins network hash rate results in a regular increase in the cryptographic complexity associated with solving blocks on its blockchain, or its difficulty. Increased difficulty reduces the mining proceeds of the equipment proportionally and eventually requires bitcoin miners to upgrade their mining equipment to remain profitable and compete effectively with other miners. Similarly, a decline in network hash rate results in a decrease in difficulty, increasing mining proceeds and profitability. Transaction Fees Bitcoin miners receive a transaction fee in the form of a portion of bitcoin for validating transactions on the Bitcoin network. The transaction fee can vary in value over time, with higher fees prioritizing certain transactions over those with lower fees. An increase in Bitcoin network transactions could represent a more significant component of miner revenue if their value increases over time. The table below provides a summary of the impact to revenue from the increase or decrease in the market price of bitcoin, difficulty and our hash rate. The impact to revenue in each scenario assumes only one driver increases or decreases and all others are held constant. Impact to Revenue Driver Increase in Driver Decrease in Driver Market Price of Bitcoin Favorable Unfavorable Core Scientific Hash Rate Favorable Unfavorable Difficulty Unfavorable Favorable Transaction Fees Favorable Unfavorable Halving Further affecting the industry, and particularly for the bitcoin blockchain, the digital asset reward for solving a block is subject to periodic incremental halving. Halving is a process designed to control the overall supply and reduce the risk of inflation in digital assets using a proof-of-work consensus algorithm. At a predetermined block, the mining reward is reduced by half, hence the term halving. A reduction in the number of bitcoins rewarded per block would result in a reduction of revenue to those mining bitcoin, barring any increase in the spot price of bitcoin or decrease in Bitcoin network hash rate or difficulty. Historically, the network hash rate has tended to decline, for a period of time, post-halving as less efficient mining servers become less profitable to operate and their operators discontinue or limit their use. For bitcoin, our most significant digital asset to which our mining power is devoted, the reward was initially set at 50 bitcoin rewards per block. The bitcoin blockchain has undergone halving three times since its inception, as follows: (1) on November 28, 2012, at block 210,000; (2) on July 9, 2016 at block 420,000; (3) on May 11, 2020 at block 630,000, when the reward was reduced to its current level of 6.25 bitcoin per block. The next halving for the bitcoin blockchain is anticipated to occur in April 2024 at block 840,000. This process will repeat until the total amount of bitcoin rewards issued reaches 21 million and the theoretical supply of new bitcoin is exhausted, which is expected to occur around the year 2140. Many factors influence the price of bitcoin and the other digital assets we may mine for, and potential increases or decreases in prices in advance of or following a future halving are unknown. Electricity Costs Electricity cost is the major operating cost for the mining fleet, as well as for the hosting services provided to customers and related parties. The cost and availability of electricity are affected primarily by changes in seasonal demand, with peak demand during the summer months driving higher costs and increased curtailments to support grid operators. Severe winter weather can increase the 54 cost of electricity and the frequency of curtailments when it results in damage to power transmission infrastructure that reduces the grids ability to deliver power. Geopolitical and macroeconomic factors, such as overseas military or economic conflict between states, can adversely affect electricity costs by raising the cost of power generation inputs such as natural gas. Locally, factors such as animal incursion, sabotage and other events out of our control can also impact electricity costs and availability. In certain power markets, financial hedging can be employed to protect buyers from the financial impact of significant increases in power prices. Equipment Costs Increases in the market value of digital assets increases the demand for new miners, which can result in a scarcity in the supply of, and increases in the price of, those miners. Declines in the market value of digital assets can result in excess supply of miners and a general decline in their prices. As a result, the cost of new miners can be unpredictable and could be significantly different than our historical cost for new miners. Our Customers In addition to factors underlying our mining business growth and profitability, our success greatly depends on our ability to retain and develop opportunities with our existing customers and to attract new customers. On July 30, 2021, we acquired an existing hosting customer, Blockcap, Inc. (Blockcap), and thereby increased our self-mining operations. Our business environment is constantly evolving, and digital asset miners can range from individual enthusiasts to professional mining operations with dedicated data centers. The Company competes with other enterprises that focus all or a portion of their activities on mining activities at scale. We face significant competition in every aspect of our business, including, but not limited to, the acquisition of new miners, the ability to raise capital, obtaining low-cost electricity, obtaining access to energy sites with reliable sources of power, and evaluating new technology developments in the industry. Presently, the information concerning the activities of these enterprises may not be readily available as the vast majority of the participants in this sector do not publish information publicly, or the information may be unreliable. Published sources of information include bitcoin.org and blockchain.info; however, the reliability of that information and its continued availability cannot be assured. Based on available data we believe that, despite the significant decrease in market prices for bitcoin and other major digital assets during 2022, an increase in the scale and sophistication of competition in the digital asset mining industry has continued to increase network hash rate, with new entrants and existing competitors increasing the number of miners mining for bitcoin. Despite this trend, we believe we have continued to maintain a competitive hash rate capacity among both public and private bitcoin miners. However, to remain competitive in our evolving industry, both against new entrants into the market and existing competitors, we anticipate that we will need to continue to expand our existing miner fleet by purchasing new and available used miners, as well as innovating to develop and implement new technologies and mining solutions. We believe that our integrated services portfolio, as well as our differentiated customer experience and technology, are keys to retaining and growing revenue from existing customers and to acquiring new customers. For example, we believe our significant build-out and ready power combined with our MinderTM fleet management software layer represent meaningful competitive advantages favorable to our business. Differentiation, Innovation and Expansion of Our Platform Our investments in research and development drive differentiation of our service offerings, core technology innovation and our ability to bring new products to market. We believe that we differentiate ourselves by offering premium products and services, including our ability to manage our electricity sourcing, construct proprietary passive cooled data centers. Our existing, completed facilities lever our specialized construction proficiency by employing high-density, low-cost engineering and power designs. Our proprietary thermodynamic system manages heat and airflow to deliver best-in-class uptime and, ultimately, increases mining rewards to us and our customers. Our facilities are designed to maximize not only mining equipment efficiency but mining equipment life. We have accumulated expertise in the installation, operation, optimization and repair of digital mining equipment. We continue to refine and develop our data center design and technology solutions to optimize our data center and mining operations with the knowledge gained from our considerable 55 digital asset mining experience, including optimizing the location of miners in our data centers to increase profitability. Our approach to data center design enables us to deliver efficiency at scale. We intend to continue to invest judiciously in research and development activities to extend our platform management and software solutions in order to manage our mining fleet more efficiently and productively. Regulation Due to the relatively short history of digital assets, and their emergence as a new asset class, government regulation of blockchain and digital assets is constantly evolving, with increased interest expressed by U.S. and internal regulators. In October 2020, the Cyber-Digital Task Force of the U.S. Department of Justice published a report entitled Cryptocurrency: An Enforcement Framework that detailed the Departments view with respect to digital assets and the tools at the Departments disposal to deal with threats posed by digital assets. In February 2021, representatives of the government of Inner Mongolia, China announced plans to ban digital asset mining within the province due to the energy and rare earth mineral demands of the industry. In March 2021, the nominee for Chair of the SEC expressed the need for investor protection along with promotion of innovation in the digital asset space. In March 2022, President Biden signed an Executive Order outlining an whole-of-government approach to addressing the risks and harnessing the potential benefits of digital assets and its underlying technology. The executive order lays out a national policy for digital assets over six highlighted priorities. In January 2023, the U.S. House of Representatives created a new congressional subcommittee focused on digital assets, the Subcommittee of Digital Assets, Financial Technology and Inclusion, operating under the House Financial Services Committee. In addition to the activities of the United States federal government and its various agencies and regulatory bodies, government regulation of blockchain and digital assets is also under active consideration by similar entities in other countries and transnational organizations, such as the European Union. State and local regulations within the United States also may apply to our activities and other activities in which we may participate in the future. Other governmental or semi-governmental regulatory bodies have shown an interest in regulating or investigating companies engaged in blockchain or digital asset businesses. For instance, the SEC has taken an active role in regulating the use of public offerings of proprietary coins (so-called initial coin offerings) and has made statements and official promulgations as to the status of certain digital assets as securities subject to regulation by the SEC. Strategic Investments Our business strategy is to grow our revenue and profitability by increasing the capacity and efficiency of our self-mining fleet and by enhancing our third-party hosting business. We intend to strategically develop the infrastructure necessary to support business growth and profitability and take advantage of adjacent opportunities that lever our mining expertise and capabilities. 56 Condensed Statements of Operations The following table presents a condensed statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Total Revenue $ 502,400 $ 640,313 Cost of revenue 378,941 631,913 Gross profit 123,459 8,400 Gain from sales of digital assets 3,893 44,298 Impairment of digital assets (4,406) (231,315) Change in fair value of derivative instruments (3,918) Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles (1,059,265) Impairment of property, plant and equipment (590,673) Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment (1,956) (28,025) Total operating expenses 108,111 252,973 Operating income (loss) 8,961 (2,109,553) Total non-operating expense, net1 254,765 53,856 Loss before income taxes (245,804) (2,163,409) Income tax expense (benefit) 683 (17,091) Net loss $ (246,487) $ (2,146,318) 1 Total non-operating expense, net includes Reorganization items, net of $191.1 million and $(197.4) million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our financial results, we use the following business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, and make strategic decisions. For a definition of these key business metrics, see the sections titled Self-Mining Hash Rate and Adjusted EBITDA (below). Year Ended December 31, 2023 2022 Self-Mining Hash rate (Exahash per second) 16.9 15.7 Adjusted EBITDA (in millions) $ 170.0 $ (10.7) Self-Mining Hash Rate We operate mining hardware which performs computational operations in support of the blockchain measured in hash rate or hashes per second. A hash is the computation run by mining hardware in support of the blockchain; therefore, a miners hash rate refers to the rate at which the hardware is capable of performing such computations. Our hash rate represents the aggregate hash rate of all miners deployed in our fleet. Our hash rate expressed as a percentage of the total Bitcoin network hash rate generally determines the number of bitcoin rewards that will be earned by our fleet. We calculate and report our hash rate in exahash per second (EH/s). One exahash equals one quintillion hashes per second. We measure the hash rate produced by our mining fleet through our management software MinderTM, which consolidates the reported hash rate from each miner. The method by which we measure our hash rate may differ from how other operators present such measure. 57 Generally, miners with a greater hash rate relative to the global Bitcoin network hash rate at a given time will, over time, have a greater chance of earning a bitcoin, as compared to miners with relatively lower total hash rates. Further, with the increase in demand for bitcoin contributing to an increase in computational resources for digital asset mining, the global network hash rate has increased, and we expect it to continue to increase. As such, our self-mining hash rate provides useful information to investors because it demonstrates our capacity, and our competitive advantage, for mining bitcoin, which contributes to our digital asset mining revenue. Management uses our self-mining hash rate to monitor our performance and competitive advantage in mining bitcoin as global competition also increases. Our self-mining hash rate was 16.9 EH/s and 15.7 EH/s for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively representing an 8% improvement year over year. Our combined self-mining and customer and related party hosting hash rate decreased 2%, to 23.2 EH/s for the year ended December 31, 2023 from 23.7 EH/s for the year ended December 31, 2022. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure defined as our net income or (loss), adjusted to eliminate the effect of (i) interest income, interest expense, and other income (expense), net; (ii) provision for income taxes; (iii) depreciation and amortization; (iv) stock-based compensation expense; (v) restructuring charges1; (vi) Reorganization items, net2; (vii) unrealized changes in fair value of derivative instruments; and (viii) certain additional non-cash or non-recurring items, that do not reflect the performance of our ongoing business operations. For additional information, including the reconciliation of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA, please refer to the table below. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is an important measure because it allows management, investors, and our Board of Directors to evaluate and compare our operating results, including our return on capital and operating efficiencies, from period-to-period by making the adjustments described above. In addition, it provides useful information to investors and others in understanding and evaluating our results of operations, as well as provides a useful measure for period-to-period comparisons of our business, as it removes the effect of net interest expense, taxes, certain non-cash items, variable charges, and timing differences. Moreover, we have included Adjusted EBITDA in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because it is a key measurement used by our management internally to make operating decisions, including those related to operating expenses, evaluate performance, and perform strategic and financial planning. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are non-cash in nature or because the amount and timing of these items are not related to the current results of our core business operations which renders evaluation of our current performance, comparisons of performance between periods and comparisons of our current performance with our competitors less meaningful. However, you should be aware that when evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, we may incur future expenses similar to those excluded when calculating this measure. Our presentation of this measure should not be construed as an inference that its future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Further, this non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, financial information prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on GAAP results and using Adjusted EBITDA on a supplemental basis. Our computation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures computed by other companies because not all companies calculate this measure in the same fashion. You should review the reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA below and not rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business. 1 Within the financial statements and relating to financial metrics restructuring charges refers to charges relating to a prepetition restructuring plan completed in October 2022 and described further in Note 4 Business Combinations, Acquisitions and Restructuring to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2 Within the financial statements and relating to financial metrics Reorganization items, net refers to charges requiring separate presentation under the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 852, Reorganizations (ASC 852) and described further in Note 3 Chapter 11 Filing and Other Related Matters to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 58 The following table presents a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year Ended December 31, 2023 20221,2 Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands) Net loss $ (246,487) $ (2,146,318) Adjustments: Interest expense, net 86,238 96,826 Income tax expense (benefit) 683 (17,091) Depreciation and amortization 96,003 225,259 Amortization of operating lease right-of-use assets 442 834 (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment (20,065) 287 Stock-based compensation expense3 58,892 182,894 Fair value adjustment on derivative warrant liabilities (37,937) Fair value adjustment on convertible notes 186,853 Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles 1,059,265 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 590,673 Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment 1,956 28,025 Gain on sale of intangible assets (5,904) Cash restructuring charges 1,320 Reorganization items, net 191,122 (197,405) Fair value adjustment on acquired vendor liability 9,498 Equity line of credit expenses 1,668 Unrealized change in fair value of derivative instruments 2,262 Other non-operating (income) expenses, net (2,530) 5,232 Other items 1,474 5,276 Adjusted EBITDA $ 169,990 $ (10,745) 1 Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified for consistency with the current year presentation. 2 Previously, the Company had held the bitcoin it earned as an investment for long-term appreciation. This strategy was outside our primary business operations and the results of impairments and realized gains and losses had been excluded from Adjusted EBITDA. With our current strategy of monetizing our bitcoin revenue soon after earning it and recent changes in accounting standards, management is no longer excluding these amounts from its Adjusted EBITDA. 3 Includes $1.0 million of stock-based compensation that was provided in severance as part of restructuring charges incurred during the year ended December 31, 2022. 59 Components of Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists primarily of fees from our hosting operations, including the sales of mining equipment to be hosted in our data centers and digital asset mining revenue. Hosting revenue from customers and related parties. Hosting revenue from customers and related parties is based on electricity-based consumption contracts with our customers and related parties. Most contracts are renewable, and our customers are generally billed on a fixed and recurring basis each month for the duration of their contract, which vary from one to three years in length. During the second quarter of 2023, we initiated our first new customer contracts based on proceed sharing. Under these new contracts, customers pay for the cost of hosting and infrastructure, and we share the proceeds that are generated. See Item 13 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. in Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Equipment sales to customers and related parties. Equipment sales to customers and related parties is derived from our ability to lever our partnerships with leading equipment manufacturers to secure equipment in advance, which is then sold to our customers and related parties. Our equipment sales are typically in connection with a hosting contract. After fiscal 2022, we no longer sell equipment to customers and related parties. Digital asset mining revenue. We operate a digital asset mining operation using specialized computers equipped with ASIC chips (known as miners) to solve complex cryptographic algorithms in support of the bitcoin blockchain (in a process known as solving a block) in exchange for digital asset rewards (primarily bitcoin). The Company participates in mining pools organized by mining pool operators in which we share our mining power (known as hash rate) with the hash rate generated by other miners participating in the pool to earn digital asset rewards. The mining pool operator provides a service that coordinates the computing power of the independent mining enterprises participating in the mining pool. The pool uses software that coordinates the pool members mining power, identifies new block rewards, records how much hash rate each participant contributes to the pool, and assigns digital asset rewards earned by the pool among its participants in proportion to the hash rate each participant contributed to the pool in connection with solving a block. Revenues from digital asset mining are impacted by volatility in bitcoin prices, as well as increases in the bitcoin blockchains network hash rate resulting from the growth in the overall quantity and quality of miners working to solve blocks on the bitcoin blockchain and the difficulty index associated with the secure hashing algorithm employed in solving the blocks. Costs of Revenue The Companys cost of hosting services and cost of digital asset mining primarily consist of electricity costs, salaries, stock-based compensation, depreciation of property, plant and equipment used to perform hosting services and mining operations and other related costs. Cost of equipment sales includes costs of computer equipment sold to customers. Gain from sales of digital assets Gain from sales of digital assets consist of gain on sales of digital assets. Impairment of digital assets Digital assets, which are initially recognized and measured at fair value, are remeasured only when an impairment is recognized. Impairment exists when the current carrying amount exceeds its current fair value. Impairment is measured using quoted prices of the digital asset at the time its fair value is being assessed. Quoted prices, including intraday low prices, are collected and utilized in impairment testing and measurement on a daily basis. To the extent that an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes the new costs basis and carrying value of the digital asset. Impairment losses are recognized in the period in which the impairment is identified. The impaired digital assets are written down to their fair value at the time of impairment and this new carrying value will not be adjusted upward for any subsequent increase in fair value. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. 60 Change in fair value of derivative instruments The change in fair value of derivative instruments represents changes in the fair value of the derivative liability related to the energy forward purchase contract described in more detail in Energy Forward Purchase Contract in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles The Company does not amortize goodwill, but tests it for impairment annually as of October 31 each year, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. The Company has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting units are less than their carrying amounts as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. If management determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the reporting units carrying amount, or management chooses not to perform a qualitative assessment, then the quantitative goodwill impairment test will be performed. The quantitative test compares the fair value of the reporting unit with the reporting units carrying amount. If the carrying amount exceeds its fair value, the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value is recognized as an impairment loss, and the resulting measurement of goodwill becomes its new cost basis. The Companys reporting units are the same as its reportable and operating segments. The Company tests intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances have occurred that may affect the recoverability or the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets. Intangible assets may be impaired when the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. If that comparison indicates that the intangible assets carrying value may not be recoverable, the impairment is measured based on the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the intangible asset. This evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which separately identifiable cash flows exist. Intangible assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell. Impairment of property, plant and equipment The Company tests property, plant and equipment for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances have occurred that may affect the recoverability or the estimated useful lives of the property, plant and equipment. Property, plant and equipment may be impaired when the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. If that comparison indicates that the assets carrying value may not be recoverable, the impairment is measured based on the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the asset. This evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which separately identifiable cash flows exist. Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment are measured as the differences between the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment exchanged or disposed of and fair value of the consideration received upon exchange or disposal. The fair value of noncash consideration received in an exchange of property, plant and equipment is determined as of contract inception. Operating expenses Operating expenses consists of research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Each is outlined in more detail below. Research and development. We invest in research and development to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of our mining operations and hosting services and to support our efforts to capture business opportunities in adjacent high-value compute markets. Research and development costs include compensation and benefits, stock-based compensation, other personnel related costs and professional fees. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of marketing expenses, trade shows and events, professional fees, compensation and benefits, stock-based compensation and other personnel related costs. General and administrative. General and administrative expenses include compensation and benefits expenses for employees who are not part of the research and development and sales and marketing organization, professional fees, and 61 other personnel-related expenses. Also included are stock-based compensation, professional fees, business insurance, auditor fees, bad debt, amortization of intangibles, franchise taxes, and bank fees. Non-operating expenses, net Non-operating expenses, net includes (gain) loss on debt extinguishment, interest expense, net, fair value adjustment on convertible notes, fair value adjustment on derivative warrant liabilities, reorganization items, net and other non-operating expenses, net. Reorganization items, net consists of expenses (including professional fees), realized gains and losses, and provisions for losses that can be directly associated with the reorganization. Income tax expense (benefit) Income tax expense (benefit) consists of U.S. federal and state income taxes. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. federal and state net deferred tax assets as realization of deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income, the timing and amount of which are uncertain and therefore have concluded it is not more likely than not that we will realize our net deferred tax assets. Income tax expense consists of federal and state tax expense on our operating activity, and changes to our deferred tax asset and deferred tax liability. Deferred income tax expense consists of income taxes recorded using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded based on the estimated future tax effects of differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of existing assets and liabilities. These differences are measured using the enacted tax rates that are expected to be in effect when these differences are anticipated to reverse. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent management believes it is not more likely than not to be realized. 62 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations for each of the periods indicated (in thousands, except percentages). Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage Revenue: Hosting revenue from customers $ 102,005 $ 130,234 $ (28,229) (22)% Hosting revenue from related parties 10,062 29,454 (19,392) (66)% Equipment sales to customers 11,391 (11,391) NM Equipment sales to related parties 71,438 (71,438) NM Digital asset mining revenue 390,333 397,796 (7,463) (2)% Total revenue 502,400 640,313 (137,913) (22)% Cost of revenue: Cost of hosting services 87,245 169,717 (82,472) (49)% Cost of equipment sales 67,114 (67,114) NM Cost of digital asset mining 291,696 395,082 (103,386) (26)% Total cost of revenue 378,941 631,913 (252,972) (40)% Gross profit 123,459 8,400 115,059 NM Gain from sales of digital assets 3,893 44,298 (40,405) (91)% Impairment of digital assets (4,406) (231,315) 226,909 NM Change in fair value of derivative instruments (3,918) NM Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles (1,059,265) 1,059,265 NM Impairment of property, plant and equipment (590,673) 590,673 NM Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment (1,956) (28,025) 26,069 NM Operating expenses: Research and development 7,184 26,962 (19,778) (73)% Sales and marketing 7,019 12,731 (5,712) (45)% General and administrative 93,908 213,280 (119,372) (56)% Total operating expenses 108,111 252,973 (144,862) (57)% Operating income (loss) 8,961 (2,109,553) 2,118,514 NM Non-operating expenses, net: (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment (20,065) 287 (20,352) NM Interest expense, net 86,238 96,826 (10,588) (11)% Fair value adjustment on convertible notes 186,853 (186,853) NM Fair value adjustment on derivative warrant liabilities (37,937) 37,937 NM Reorganization items, net 191,122 (197,405) 388,527 NM Other non-operating (income) expenses, net (2,530) 5,232 (7,762) (148)% Total non-operating expense, net 254,765 53,856 200,909 373% Loss before income taxes (245,804) (2,163,409) 1,917,605 NM Income tax expense (benefit) 683 (17,091) 17,774 NM Net loss $ (246,487) $ (2,146,318) $ 1,899,831 NM NM - Not Meaningful 63 Revenue Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage Revenue: (in thousands, except percentages) Hosting revenue from customers $ 102,005 $ 130,234 $ (28,229) (22)% Hosting revenue from related parties 10,062 29,454 (19,392) (66)% Equipment sales to customers 11,391 (11,391) NM Equipment sales to related parties 71,438 (71,438) NM Digital asset mining revenue 390,333 397,796 (7,463) (2)% Total revenue $ 502,400 $ 640,313 $ (137,913) (22)% Percentage of total revenue: Hosting revenue from customers 20 % 20 % Hosting revenue from related parties 2 % 5 % Equipment sales to customers % 2 % Equipment sales to related parties % 11 % Digital asset mining revenue 78 % 62 % Total Revenue 100 % 100 % Total revenue decreased by $137.9 million to $502.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $640.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, as a result of the factors described below. Total hosting revenue from customers decreased by $28.2 million or 22%, to $102.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $130.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in hosting revenue from customers was primarily driven by the termination of contracts for several customers in the portfolio at less profitable hosting rates and the associated reduction in the total number of hosting miners in the fleet for the year ended December 31, 2023. Total hosting revenue from related parties decreased by $19.4 million or 66%, to $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $29.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in related party hosting contracts was primarily driven by the termination of hosting contracts during the fourth quarter of December 31, 2022, when the hosting contracts for 24 customers, (including two related-party customers) were terminated. The previously hosted ASIC servers were removed from our data center facilities and returned to the customers. The Company produced approximately 5,512 bitcoin for hosting customers in its data centers for the year ended December 31, 2023. Equipment sales to customers decreased by $11.4 million or 100%, to nil for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in equipment sales to customers was primarily driven by the Companys decision to exit the Equipment Sales business due to the increasing number of hosting customers purchasing mining equipment directly from manufacturers for deployments in our data centers during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Equipment sales to related parties decreased by $71.4 million or 100%, to nil for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $71.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in equipment sales to related parties was primarily driven the Companys decision to exit the Equipment Sales business due to the increasing number of hosting customers purchasing mining equipment directly from manufacturers for deployments in our data centers during the year ended December 31, 2023, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Digital asset mining revenue decreased by $7.5 million or 2%, to $390.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $397.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The year over year decrease in mining revenue was driven primarily by increased mining difficulty associated with the growth in the global Bitcoin network hash rate in fiscal year 2023 relative to fiscal year 2022, partially offset by the increase in the number of mining units deployed in our self-mining fleet. Our self-mining hash rate increased by 8%, to 16.9 EH/s for the year ended December 31, 2023, from 15.7 EH/s for the year ended December 31, 2022. The total number of bitcoins self-mined for the year ended December 31, 2023, was 13,762 compared to 14,436 for the year ended 64 December 31, 2022. The average price of bitcoin for the year ended December 31, 2023, was $28,859 as compared to $28,198 for the year ended December 31, 2022, an improvement of 2%. Cost of revenue Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 378,941 $ 631,913 $ (252,972) (40) % Gross profit 123,459 8,400 115,059 NM Gross margin 25 % 1 % Cost of revenue decreased by $253.0 million or 40%, to $378.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $631.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. As a percentage of total revenue, cost of revenue totaled 75% and 99% for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in cost of revenue was primarily attributable to $128.1 million of decreased depreciation expense driven by a late fiscal 2022 impairment adjustment to the depreciable base for the deployed self-mining units, $67.1 million of lower equipment sales costs due to the Company exiting the selling of equipment, $41.8 million of lower power costs, and lower stock-based compensation of $20.7 million as the prior year included accelerated vesting of awards and a decrease in equity awards granted for the current fiscal year. Gain from sales of digital assets Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Gain from sales of digital assets $ 3,893 $ 44,298 $ (40,405) (91) % Percentage of total revenue 1 % 7 % Gain from sales of digital assets decreased by $40.4 million to $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from a gain of $44.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Gains are recorded when realized upon sale(s). In determining the gain to be recognized upon sale, we calculate the difference between the sales price and carrying value of the digital assets sold immediately prior to sale. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the carrying value of our digital assets sold was $400.8 million and the sales price was $404.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the carrying value of our digital assets sold was $400.1 million and the sales price was $444.4 million. Impairment of digital assets Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Impairment of digital assets $ (4,406) $ (231,315) $ 226,909 NM Percentage of total revenue (1) % (36) % Impairment of digital assets decreased by $226.9 million to $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $231.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, due primarily to the falling prices of digital assets during fiscal 2022. Impairment exists when the carrying amount exceeds its fair value. Impairment is measured using quoted prices of the digital asset at the time its fair value is being assessed. Quoted prices, including intraday low prices, are collected and utilized in impairment testing and measurement on a daily basis. If the then current carrying value of a digital asset exceeds the fair value so determined, an impairment loss has occurred with respect to those digital assets in the amount equal to the difference between their carrying value and the price 65 determined. The carrying value of our digital assets amounted to $2.3 million and $0.7 million as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Change in fair value of derivative instruments Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Change in fair value of derivative instruments $ (3,918) $ $ (3,918) NM Percentage of total revenue (1) % % Change in fair value of derivative instruments was $3.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 and was driven by the change in fair value of the derivative liability related to the energy forward purchase contract described in more detail in 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles $ $ (1,059,265) $ 1,059,265 NM Percentage of total revenue % (165) % Impairment of goodwill and other intangibles decreased by $1.06 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. We identified triggering events as of June 30, 2022, September 30, 2022, and December 31, 2022, due to declines in the market price of bitcoin, the market price of our common stock and our market capitalization and, as such, we performed the quantitative test to compare the fair value to the carrying value for each reporting unit. We concluded the carrying value of the Mining reporting unit and Equipment Sales and Hosting reporting unit exceeded each reporting units fair value and, as such, recorded an impairment of goodwill of $996.5 million in our Mining reporting unit and $58.2 million in our Equipment Sales and Hosting reporting unit. In addition, as part of the restructuring activities during the second quarter of 2022, the Company determined that $4.5 million of software intangible assets would no longer be used. See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. Impairment of property, plant and equipment Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Impairment of property, plant and equipment $ $ (590,673) $ 590,673 NM Percentage of total revenue % (92) % Impairment of property, plant and equipment decreased by $590.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. During the second half of December 31, 2022, our operating performance and liquidity continued to be severely impacted by the prolonged decrease in the price of bitcoin, the increase in electricity costs, the increase in the global Bitcoin network hash rate and an increase in additional operating costs related to these factors. Additionally, primary and secondary market prices for ASIC miners of the type used in our business operations have decreased significantly from previous levels, including prices for those miners acquired earlier in 2022. Accordingly, we evaluated whether the estimated future undiscounted cash flows from the operation of our data center facilities sites would recover the carrying value of the property, plant and equipment located at the sites and used in site operations, including our deployed mining equipment. Based on this evaluation, we determined that the carrying value of the fleet of deployed mining equipment and of the other non-mining equipment property, plant and equipment at the Cedarvale and Cottonwood, Texas facility sites may no longer be fully recoverable by the cash flows of the site. We measured the 66 amount of impairment of the fleet of deployed mining equipment as the difference between their carrying amount of $690.4 million and the estimated fair value of $176.3 million, resulting in an impairment of $514.1 million on the fleet of deployed mining equipment for the year ended December 31, 2022. We measured the amount of impairment at the identified facility sites as the difference between the carrying amount of the site asset group of $211.6 million and the estimated fair value of the site asset group of $135.1 million, resulting in an impairment of the facility sites property, plant and equipment of $76.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. See the discussion of long-lived asset impairments in Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment $ (1,956) $ (28,025) $ 26,069 NM Percentage of total revenue % (4) % Losses on exchange or disposal of property, plant and equipment decreased by $26.1 million to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from loss of $28.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was due primarily to a noncash exchange of mining equipment during 2022. Operating Expenses Research and development Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 7,184 $ 26,962 $ (19,778) (73)% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 4 % Research and development expenses decreased by $19.8 million or 73%, to $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $27.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was driven by lower stock-based compensation of $20.8 million, as the prior year included accelerated vesting of awards and a decrease in equity awards granted during the year ended December 31, 2023, primarily offset by higher personnel and related expenses of $1.0 million. Sales and marketing Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 7,019 $ 12,731 $ (5,712) (45)% Percentage of total revenue 1 % 2 % Sales and marketing expenses decreased by $5.7 million or 45%, to $7.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $12.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by lower stock-based compensation of $4.5 million, as the prior year included accelerated vesting of awards and a decrease in equity awards granted for the current fiscal year, $0.8 million of lower advertising and marketing expenses and $0.4 million lower personnel and related expenses. 67 General and administrative Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 93,908 $ 213,280 $ (119,372) (56)% Percentage of total revenue 19 % 33 % General and administrative expenses decreased by $119.4 million to $93.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $213.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by lower stock-based compensation of $77.9 million, as the prior year included accelerated vesting of awards and a decrease in equity awards granted during the current fiscal year, $14.1 million of lower professional fees primarily related to investments made to support public company readiness, $10.0 million of lower advisor fees in the prior year, $9.0 million decrease in bad debt expense, $3.2 million of lower payroll and benefit costs associated with lower headcount, $2.6 million lower employee related expenses such as travel and software, and $1.3 million decrease in rent expense, partially offset by higher corporate taxes of $1.0 million. Non-operating expenses, net Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage Non-operating expenses, net: (in thousands, except percentages) (Gain) loss on debt extinguishment $ (20,065) $ 287 $ (20,352) NM Interest expense, net 86,238 96,826 (10,588) (11)% Fair value adjustment on convertible notes 186,853 (186,853) NM Fair value adjustment on derivative warrant liabilities (37,937) 37,937 NM Reorganization items, net 191,122 (197,405) 388,527 NM Other non-operating (income) expenses, net (2,530) 5,232 (7,762) (148)% Total non-operating expense, net $ 254,765 $ 53,856 $ 200,909 373% Total non-operating expenses, net increased by $200.9 million, to $254.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, from $53.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in non-operating expenses, net was primarily driven by a $388.5 million increase in Reorganization items, net related to DIP financing fees and bankruptcy advisor fees post-petition during the year ended December 31, 2023, changes in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities of $37.9 million, partially offset by a fair value adjustment on the convertible notes of $186.9 million (excluding interest expense and changes in instrument-specific credit risk) for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to no adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2023, a $20.4 million gain on extinguishment of debt primarily related to the settlement of the NYDIG Loan for the year ended December 31, 2023, and a $10.6 million decrease in Interest expense, net as a result of suspension of interest during the Chapter 11 Cases,. Income tax expense (benefit) Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Income tax expense (benefit) $ 683 $ (17,091) $ 17,774 NM Percentage of total revenue % (3) % Income tax expense (benefit) consists of U.S. federal, state and local income taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our income tax expense was $0.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2022, our income tax benefit was $17.1 million. The $17.8 million increase in the provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to same period in 2022, was primarily due to a reduction in our US federal deferred tax liability. The Company's effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023, was lower than the federal statutory rate of 21% primarily due to losses and certain deductions for which no tax benefit can be 68 recognized. We evaluate our ability to recognize our deferred tax assets quarterly by considering all positive and negative evidence available as proscribed by the FASB under its general principles of ASC 740, Income Taxes. See Note 13 Income Taxes to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Segment Total Revenue and Gross Profit The following table presents total revenue and gross profit by reportable segment for the periods presented: Year Ended December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage Hosting Segment1 (in thousands, except percentages) Revenue: Hosting revenue $ 112,067 $ 159,688 $ (47,621) (30)% Equipment sales 82,829 (82,829) NM Total revenue 112,067 242,517 (130,450) (54)% Cost of revenue: Cost of hosting services 87,245 169,717 (82,472) (49) % Cost of equipment sales 67,114 (67,114) (100) % Total cost of revenue $ 87,245 $ 236,831 $ (149,586) (63) % Gross profit $ 24,822 $ 5,686 $ 19,136 NM Gross margin2 22 % 2 % Mining Segment Digital asset mining revenue $ 390,333 $ 397,796 $ (7,463) (2) % Total revenue 390,333 397,796 (7,463) (2) % Cost of revenue 291,696 395,082 (103,386) (26) % Gross profit $ 98,637 $ 2,714 $ 95,923 NM Gross margin2 25 % 1 % Consolidated total revenue $ 502,400 $ 640,313 $ (137,913) (22) % Consolidated cost of revenue $ 378,941 $ 631,913 $ (252,972) (40) % Consolidated gross profit $ 123,459 $ 8,400 $ 115,059 NM 1 During the year ended December 31. 2022, our Hosting segment also included sales of mining equipment to customers and was referred to as Hosting and Equipment Sales. 2 Gross margin is calculated as gross profit as a percentage of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2023, cost of revenue included depreciation expense of $6.9 million for the Hosting segment and $88.5 million for the Mining segment. For the year ended December 31, 2022, cost of revenue included depreciation expense of $12.1 million for the Equipment Sales and Hosting segment and $214.8 million for the Mining segment. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the top three customers accounted for approximately 72% and 57%, respectively, of the Hostings segment total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2023, gross profit in the Hosting segment increased $19.1 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, reflecting a Hosting segment gross margin of 22% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 2% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in Hosting segment gross profit for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily due to a decrease in stock-based compensation expense as a percentage of revenues as prior year included accelerated vesting of awards. The increase in the Hosting segment gross profit was partially offset by a decrease in hosting revenue driven by the termination of contracts for several customers in the portfolio at less profitable hosting rates. For the year ended December 31, 2023, gross profit in the Mining segment increased $95.9 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, due to a higher Mining segment gross margin of 25% for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 1% for the year ended December 31, 2022. The increase in the Mining segment gross profit was primarily due to a decrease in depreciation as a percentage of segment revenues, which was driven by an impairment adjustment to the depreciable base for the deployed self-mining 69 units, a decrease in stock-based compensation expense as a percentage of revenues as prior year included accelerated vesting of awards, and an improvement in our self-mining hash rate, which was 16.9 EH/s for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to 15.7 EH/s for the year ended December 31, 2022. This increase in the Mining segment gross profit margin is partially offset by a 2% improvement in the average price of bitcoin and by higher power costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity Historically, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of equity securities, debt issuances, equipment financing arrangements and cash generated from operations, including sales of self-mined bitcoin and other digital assets. Subsequent to filing Chapter 11, our primary sources of cash are cash flows from operations, cash on hand and proceeds from the Original DIP Facility and the Replacement DIP Facility. See below for discussion of cash flows from operating activities and cash and cash equivalents. At December 31, 2023, we had unrestricted cash on hand of $50.4 million and $35.0 million of undrawn borrowing capacity under the Replacement DIP Facility. In January 2024, the Replacement DIP Facility was repaid in full and terminated on the Effective Date of the Companys Plan of Reorganization. On the Effective Date, we entered into a new$80.0 million credit and guaranty agreement (the Exit Credit Agreement), and currently have $20.0 million of undrawn borrowing capacity under that facility. For a discussion of Chapter 11 and Other Related Matters, refer to Recent Developments Chapter 11 and Other Related Matters above for more information on the Chapter 11 Cases and the effect on our liquidity. Operating and Capital Resources Historically, a substantial portion of our liquidity needs arose from debt service on our outstanding indebtedness and from funding the costs of operations, working capital and capital expenditures. Our previous level of capital expenditures have been reduced since filing Chapter 11 and we expect them to remain at a reduced level following our emergence from Chapter 11. We have assessed our current and expected operating and capital expenditurerequirements and our current and expected sources of liquidity, and have determined, based on our forecasted financial results and financial condition as of December 31, 2023, that our operating cash flows, existing cash balances, and access to the Replacement DIP Facility and Exit Credit Agreement will be adequate to finance our working capital requirements, fund capital expenditures and make our required debt interest and principal payments, pay taxes and make other payments due under the Plan of Reorganization. We believe that our current liquidity and expected funding requirements will allow us to operate for at least the next 12 months. Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash, and Cash Flow Activities Cash and cash equivalents include all cash balances and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less from the date of acquisition. December 31, Period over Period Change 2023 2022 Dollar Percentage (in thousands, except percentages) Cash and cash equivalents $ 50,409 $ 15,884 $ 34,525 217% Restricted cash 19,300 36,356 (17,056) NM Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 69,709 $ 52,240 $ 17,469 33% As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, restricted cash of $19.3 million and $36.4 million, respectively, consisted of cash held in escrow under the Original DIP Credit Agreement and to pay for construction and development activities. 70 The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash and cash flows for the periods indicated. December 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 69,709 $ 52,240 Cash provided by (used in) Operating activities 65,114 205,187 Investing activities (2,996) (590,778) Financing activities (44,649) 306,153 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash beg. of period 52,240 131,678 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash end of period $ 69,709 $ 52,240 Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations and investing in capital expenditures. Operating Activities Changes in net cash from operating activities results primarily from cash received from hosting customers and equipment sales and payments for power fees and equipment purchases. Other drivers of the changes in net cash from operating activities include research and development costs, sales and marketing costs and general and administrative expenses (including personnel expenses and fees for professional services) and interest payments on debt. Net cash provided by operating activities was $65.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to $205.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022, was primarily due to a decrease in net loss of $1.90 billion, a decrease in intangible impairments of $1.65 billion, a decrease in fair value adjustments on convertible notes of $186.9 million, and a decrease in stock-based compensation of $124.0 million. Investing Activities Our net cash used in investing activities consists of purchases of property, plant and equipment, deposits for self-mining equipment, proceeds from the sale of intangible assets, and investments in internally developed software. Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, was $3.0 million and $590.8 million, respectively. The change over prior year was driven primarily by $367.8 million decrease in purchases of property, plant and equipment and to a $217.7 million decrease in deposits for self-mining equipment. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities consists of proceeds from stock issuances, issuances of debt, net of issuance costs and principal payments on debt, including notes payable and finance leases. In connection with the filing of the Chapter 11 Cases, the Company recorded approximately $2.5 million in financing costs related to the issuance of the Original DIP Facility for the year ended December 31, 2022. For the year ended December 31, 2023, net cash used in financing activities was $44.6 million, primarily related to $41.0 million of principal payments on debt and $3.7 million of principal repayments of finance leases. For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was $306.2 million, primarily related to $261.3 million from the issuance of debt, driven by equipment financing arrangements and $25.0 million of proceeds from the issuance of common stock, net of issuance costs (including $201.0 million in net cash proceeds received from the merger with XPDI after payment of transaction expenses, $21.3 million in cash proceeds received for shares issued under the Equity Line of Credit (as defined in Note 12 Stockholders' (Deficit) Equity in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K), and $3.8 million in cash proceeds received for employee stock option exercises). Offsetting this increase to net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022, was $113.3 million of principal payments on debt, $31.6 million for the repurchase of common shares to pay employee withholding taxes and $30.3 million of principal repayments of finance leases. 71 Future Commitments and Contractual Obligations Legal ProceedingsThe Company is subject to legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. The Company accrues losses for a legal proceeding when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. However, the uncertainties inherent in legal proceedings make it difficult to reasonably estimate the costs and effects of resolving these matters. Accordingly, actual costs incurred may differ materially from amounts accrued and could materially adversely affect the Companys business, cash flows, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Unless otherwise indicated, the Company is unable to estimate reasonably possible losses in excess of any amounts accrued. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, there were no loss contingency accruals for legal matters. Commitments Purchase Commitments In September 2023, the Company entered into a purchase agreement to acquire S19 XP miners with a combined exahash of 4.08 or 28,400 miners from Bitmain for approximately $77.1 million, of which $4.1 million was paid as of December 31, 2023. As of the reporting date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have completed payment on all new bitcoin miners ordered for 2024. As of December 31, 2023, the Company had received approximately 22,700 miners. The remaining miners were received in January 2024. In October 2023, the Company entered into a purchase agreement to acquire S21 miners with a combined exahash of 2.52 or approximately 12,900 miners from Bitmain for approximately $50.4 million, of which $2.4 million was paid as a deposit as of December 31, 2023, and included in other current assets on the Company's consolidated balance sheets. Delivery of the miners is expected between the first and second quarters of 2024. Leases Our lease portfolio primarily consists of offices, data facilities, mining and networking equipment, electrical infrastructure and office equipment. For additional information, see Note 9 Leases in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Notes Payable We have long-term debt with varying maturities dates through 2027. For additional information, see Note 7 Notes Payable in the notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other Events Chapter 11 and Other Related Matters For a discussion of Chapter 11 and Other Related Matters, refer to Recent Developments Chapter 11 and Other Related Matters above for more information on the Chapter 11 Cases and the effect on our liquidity. Related Party Transactions We had agreements to provide hosting services to various entities that are managed and invested in by individuals who were directors and executives of Core Scientific. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recognized hosting revenue of $10.1 million and $29.5 million, respectively, from the contracts with these entities. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we recognized equipment sales revenue of nil and $71.4 million, respectively, from these entities. Receivables from these entities were nil as of December 31, 2023 and a nominal amount as of December 31, 2022. Core Scientific reimburses certain of its officers and directors for use of a personal aircraft for flights taken on Company business. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we incurred reimbursements of nil and $1.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, nil was payable, and as of December 31, 2022, $0.2 million was payable. Foreign Currency and Exchange Risk The vast majority of our cash generated from revenue are denominated in U.S. dollars. 72 Critical Accounting Estimates The critical accounting estimates, assumptions, judgments and the related policies that we believe have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements are described below. Liabilities Subject to Compromise As a result of the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, the payment of pre-petition liabilities is subject to compromise or other treatment pursuant to a plan of reorganization. The determination of how liabilities will ultimately be settled or treated is determined by the confirmed Chapter 11 plan of reorganization when it becomes effective. Accordingly, the ultimate amount of such claims is not determinable until such time as the Bankruptcy Court determines their allowed amount. Pre-petition liabilities that are subject to compromise are reported at the amounts management expects to become allowed by the Bankruptcy Court, even if they may be settled for different amounts upon confirmation. The amounts currently classified as Liabilities subject to compromise are preliminary and may be subject to future adjustments depending on Bankruptcy Court actions, further developments with respect to disputed claims, determinations of the secured status of certain claims, the values of any collateral securing such claims, rejection of executory contracts, continued reconciliation or other events. Revenue From Contracts With Customers - Digital Asset Mining Revenue The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with ASC 606, Revenue Recognition (ASC 606). The core principle of the revenue standard is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The following five steps are applied to achieve that core principle: Step 1: Identify the contract with the customer Step 2: Identify the performance obligations in the contract Step 3: Determine the transaction price Step 4: Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract Step 5: Recognize revenue when the Company satisfies a performance obligation In order to identify the performance obligations in a contract with a customer, an entity must assess the promised goods or services in the contract and identify each promised good or service that is distinct. A performance obligation meets ASC 606s definition of a distinct good or service (or bundle of goods or services) if both of the following criteria are met: The customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer (i.e., the good or service is capable of being distinct); and The entitys promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract (i.e., the promise to transfer the good or service is distinct within the context of the contract). If a good or service is not distinct, the good or service is combined with other promised goods or services until a bundle of goods or services is identified that is distinct. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer. The consideration promised in a contract with a customer may include fixed amounts, variable amounts, or both. When determining the transaction price, an entity must consider the effects of all of the following: Variable consideration Constraining estimates of variable consideration The existence of a significant financing component in the contract Noncash consideration Consideration payable to a customer Variable consideration is included in the transaction price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized under the accounting contract will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. 73 The transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation on a relative standalone selling price basis. The transaction price allocated to each performance obligation is recognized when that performance obligation is satisfied, at a point in time or over time, as appropriate. Application of the five-step model to the Companys mining operations One of the Companys ongoing major or central operations is to provide a service of performing hash calculations to third-party pool operators alongside collectives of third-party bitcoin miners (such collectives, mining pools) as a participant. The Company considers the third-party mining pool operators to be its customers under Topic 606. Contract inception and our enforceable right to consideration begins when we commence providing hash calculation services to the mining pool operators. Each party to the contract has the unilateral right to terminate the contract at any time without any compensation to the other party for such termination. As such, the duration of a contract is less than a day and may be continuously renewed multiple times throughout the day. The implied renewal option is not a material right because there are no upfront or incremental fees in the initial contract and the terms, conditions, and compensation amount for the renewal options are at the then market rates. The Company is entitled to non-cash compensation based on the Full-Pay-Per-Share (FPPS) model of the mining pool it is a participant in. FPPS pools pay block rewards and transaction fees, less mining pool fees and the participants are entitled to non-cash consideration even if a block is not successfully validated by the mining pool operator. The Company is entitled to compensation once it begins to perform hash calculations for the pool operator in accordance with the operators specifications over a 24-hour period beginning mid-night UTC and ending 23:59:59 UTC on a daily basis. The non-cash consideration that we are entitled to for providing hash calculations to the pool operator under the FPPS payout method is made up of block rewards and transaction fees less pool operator expenses determined as follows: The non-cash consideration in the form of a block reward is based on the total blocks expected to be generated on the Bitcoin Network for the daily 24-hour period beginning midnight UTC and ending 23:59:59 UTC in accordance with the following formula: the daily hash calculations that we provided to the pool operator as a percent of the Bitcoin Networks implied hash calculations as determined by the network difficulty, multiplied by the total Bitcoin Network block rewards expected to be generated for the same daily period. The non-cash consideration in the form of transaction fees paid by transaction requestors is based on the share of total actual fees paid over the daily 24-hour period beginning midnight UTC and ending 23:59:59 UTC in accordance with the following formula: total actual transaction fees generated on the Bitcoin Network during the 24-hour period as a percent of total block rewards the Bitcoin Network actually generated during the same 24-hour period, multiplied by the block rewards we earned for the same 24-hour period noted above. The block reward and transaction fees earned by the Company is reduced by mining pool fees charged by the operator for operating the pool based on a rate schedule per the mining pool contract. The mining pool fee is only incurred to the extent we perform hash calculations and generate revenue in accordance with the pool operators payout formula during the same 24-hour period beginning mid-night UTC daily. The above non-cash consideration is variable, since the amount of block reward earned depends on the amount of hash calculations we perform; the amount of transaction fees we are entitled to depends on the actual Bitcoin Network transaction fees over the same 24-hour period; and the operator fees for the same 24-hour period are variable since it is determined based on the total block rewards and transaction fees in accordance with the pool operators agreement. While the non-cash consideration is variable, the Company has the ability to estimate the variable consideration at contract inception with reasonable certainty without the risk of significant revenue reversal. The Company does not constrain this variable consideration because it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of revenue recognized from the contract will not occur when the uncertainty is subsequently resolved and recognizes the non-cash consideration on the same day that control is transferred, which is the same day as contract inception. The Company measures the non-cash consideration based on the volume weighted average spot rates of aggregated exchanges over a 24-hour period beginning mid-night UTC and ending 23:59:59 UTC on the day of contract inception using the Companys primary bitcoin pricing source system. The Company recognizes non-cash consideration on the same day that control of the contracted service is transferred to the pool operator, which is the same day as the contract inception. Direct expenses associated with providing hash calculation services to a third-party operated mining pool are recorded as cost of revenues. Depreciation and amortization expenses on fixed and right-of-use assets, including digital asset mining equipment, used to provide the services are also recorded as a component of cost of revenues. 74 Equipment Sales (Applicable to years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021) We entered contracts with more than one performance obligation. For example, we entered into contacts that include both hosting services and sales of computer equipment to those same customers, for which revenue is recognized at the point in time when control of the equipment is transferred to the customer (typically at the start of the contract period). For these contracts, revenue was recognized based on the relative standalone selling price of each performance obligation in the contract. The Company recognized revenue from sales of computer equipment to customers at the point in time when control of the equipment is transferred to the customer, which generally occurred upon deployment of the equipment. Customers made a series of deposits on equipment purchases with the final payment typically being due at least one month prior to deployment. Self-mining computer equipment that was subsequently sold to customers was recognized as Equipment Sales to Customers in the Companys Consolidated Statements of Operations. Due to the change to Bitmain worldwide sale strategy, we do not expect to enter equipment sales contracts in the future or to have any equipment sales revenue after December 31, 2022. Stock-Based Compensation The Black-Scholes assumptions used in evaluating our awards are as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2023 (1) 2022 Dividend yield 0.00 % 0.00 % Expected volatility % 72.29 % Risk-free interest rate % 1.82 % Expected life (years) 0 7.00 (1) No stock options were granted during the year ended December 31, 2023. We will continue to use judgment in evaluating the assumptions related to our stock-based compensation on a prospective basis. As we continue to accumulate additional data related to our common stock, we may refine our estimation process, which could materially impact our future stock-based compensation expense. In addition, for awards with performance conditions, primarily restricted stock unit awards, we recognize the estimated fair value of the awards based on managements judgment as to whether or not it is probable that the performance conditions will be achieved. Common Stock Valuations In valuing the fair value of our common stock prior to the Business Combination, we used the most observable inputs available. We used the market approach, which estimates the value of our business by applying valuation multiples derived from the observed valuation multiples of comparable public companies to our expected financial results. When observable inputs were not available, we used the income approach. This approach typically projects cash flows for the forecast period and uses the perpetuity growth method to calculate terminal values. These cash flows and terminal values were then discounted using an appropriate discount rate. Projections of cash flows were based on managements earnings forecasts. Applying these valuation and allocation approaches involves the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that are highly complex and subjective, such as those regarding the Companys expected future revenue, expenses and cash flows, as well as discount rates, valuation multiples, the selection of comparable public companies and the probability of future events. Changes in any or all of these estimates and assumptions, or the relationships between these assumptions, impact the Companys valuation as of each valuation date and may have a material impact on the valuation of the Companys common stock and common stock warrants issued with the Companys debt and equity instruments. Long-Lived Assets We test long-lived assets for recoverability whenever events or changes in circumstances have occurred that may affect the recoverability or the estimated useful lives of long-lived assets. Long-lived assets include intangible assets subject to amortization. A long-lived asset may be impaired when the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are less than the carrying amount of the asset. If 75 that comparison indicates that the assets carrying value may not be recoverable, the impairment is measured based on the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value of the asset. This evaluation is performed at the lowest level for which separately identifiable cash flows exist. Long-lived assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or estimated fair value less costs to sell. We did not have any impairments in our long-lived assets for the year ended December 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a $4.5 million impairment of other intangibles and a $590.7 million impairment of property, plant and equipment. Digital Assets Our digital assets, e.g., bitcoin, are accounted for as intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. We initially recognize digital currency assets that are earned as digital asset mining revenue based on the fair value of the digital assets using prices in connection with the Companys revenue recognition policy. Digital asset disposals are on a first-in-first-out (FIFO) basis. Impairment is measured using quoted prices of the digital asset obtained from the Companys primary market at the time its fair value is being assessed. Quoted prices, including intraday low prices, are collected and utilized in impairment testing and measurement on a continuous basis. The Company deems the price of digital assets to be a Level 1 input under the ASC 820, Fair Value Measurement hierarchy as these are based on observable quoted prices in the Companys primary market for identical assets. To the extent an impairment loss is recognized, the loss establishes a new carrying value of the digital asset lot. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. Digital assets are classified on our balance sheet as a current asset due to the Companys ability to sell it in a highly liquid marketplace and its intent to liquidate its digital assets to fund operations when necessary. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the Company recognized net gains of $3.9 million and $44.3 million, respectively, on sales of digital assets. Purchases and sales of digital assets by the Company and digital assets awarded to the Company are included within Cash flows from operating activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Any realized gains or losses from sales of bitcoin are included in Operating income (loss) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The Company accounts for its gains or losses by lot on a FIFO basis. Foreign Currency and Exchange Risk Substantially all revenue and operating expenses are denominated in U.S. dollars. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting standards relevant to our business, refer to Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Emerging Growth Company We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. We may take advantage of certain exemptions from various public company reporting requirements, including not being required to have our internal control over financial reporting audited by our independent registered public accounting firm under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements and exemptions from the requirements of holding a non-binding advisory vote on executive compensation and any golden parachute payments. We may take advantage of these exemptions for up to five years or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act. Accordingly, our financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of public companies that comply with such new or revised accounting standards. We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following February 12, 2026, the fifth anniversary of the date of the first sale of common equity securities of the Company in a registered offering, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.235 billion or (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer, which means the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates meets or exceeds $700.0 million as of the prior June 30th and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period. 76