Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. References to the Company, Power & Digital Infrastructure Acquisition Corp., Power & Digital, our, us or we refer to Power & Digital Infrastructure Acquisition Corp. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and projections about future events. These forward-looking statements are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us that may cause our actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, should, could, would, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, continue, or the negative of such terms or other similar expressions. Such statements include, but are not limited to, possible business combinations and the financing thereof, and related matters, as well as all other statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Form 10-Q. Factors that might cause or contribute to such a discrepancy include, but are not limited to, those described in our other SEC filings. Overview We are a blank check company incorporated in Delaware on December 29, 2020. We were formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses (the Business Combination). We are an emerging growth company and, as such, we are subject to all of the risks associated with emerging growth companies. Our sponsor is XPDI Sponsor LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (the Sponsor). The registration statement for our Initial Public Offering was declared effective on February 9, 2021. On February 12, 2021, we consummated its Initial Public Offering of 34,500,000 units (the Units and, with respect to the Class A common stock included in the Units being offered, the Public Shares), including the exercise of the underwriters option to purchase 4,500,000 additional Units (the Over-Allotment Units), at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $345.0 million, and incurring offering costs of approximately $19.2 million, of which approximately $12.1 million in deferred underwriting commissions. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, we consummated the private placement (Private Placement) of 6,266,667 warrants (each, a Private Placement Warrant and collectively, the Private Placement Warrants), at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant, to the Sponsor and to certain qualified institutional buyers or institutional accredited investors, including certain funds and accounts managed by subsidiaries of BlackRock, Inc. (the Anchor Investors), generating proceeds of $9.4 million. Upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering and the Private Placement, $345.0 million ($10.00 per Unit) of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and certain of the proceeds of the Private Placement was placed in a trust account (Trust Account) located in the United States with Continental Stock Transfer & Trust Company acting as trustee, and will be invested only in U.S. government securities, within the meaning of Section 2(a)(16) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the Investment Company Act), having a maturity of 185 days or less or in money market funds meeting certain conditions under Rule 2a-7 promulgated under the Investment Company Act, which invest only in direct U.S. government treasury obligations, as determined by us, until the earlier of: (i) the completion of a Business Combination and (ii) the distribution of the Trust Account as described below. Our management has broad discretion with respect to the specific application of the net proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of Private Placement Warrants, although substantially all of the net proceeds are intended to be applied generally toward consummating a Business Combination. There is no assurance that we will be able to complete a Business Combination successfully. We complete one or more initial Business Combinations having an aggregate fair market value of at least 80% of the net assets held in the Trust Account (as defined below) (excluding the deferred underwriting commissions and taxes payable by us on the income earned on the trust account) at the time of the agreement to enter into the initial Business Combination. However, we only intend to complete a Business Combination if the post-transaction company owns or acquires 50% or more of the issued and outstanding voting securities of the target or otherwise acquires a controlling interest in the target sufficient for it not to be required to register as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If we are unable to complete a Business Combination within 24 months from the closing of the Initial Public Offering, or February 12, 2023, (the Combination Period) and our stockholders have not amended the Certificate of Incorporation to extend such Combination Period, we will (1) cease all operations except for the purpose of winding up; (2) as promptly as reasonably possible but not more than 10 business days thereafter, redeem the Public Shares, at a per-share price, payable in cash, equal to the aggregate amount then on deposit in the Trust Account, including interest (less up to $100,000 of interest to pay dissolution expenses and which interest shall be net of taxes payable by us), divided by the number of then issued and outstanding Public Shares, which redemption will completely extinguish Public Stockholders rights as stockholders (including the right to receive further liquidating distributions, if any); and (3) as promptly as reasonably possible following such redemption, subject to the approval of the remaining stockholders and our board of directors, liquidate and dissolve, subject in each case to our obligations under Delaware law to provide for claims of creditors and the requirements of other applicable law. 21 Core Scientific Business Combination On July 20, 2021, the Company entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization (the Agreement) with XPDI Merger Sub Inc. (First Merger Sub) and XPDI Merger Sub 2, LLC (Second Merger Sub), both wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company (together with First Merger Sub and Second Merger Sub, the Merger Subs and, together with the Company, the XPDI Parties), and Core Scientific Holding Co., a Delaware corporation (Core Scientific). The Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby (collectively, the Business Combination) were unanimously approved by the boards of directors of each of the Company and Core Scientific. Pursuant to the Agreement, and subject to the terms and conditions set forth therein, the Company will acquire Core Scientific through a series of transactions, including (x) the merger of First Merger Sub with and into Core Scientific (the First Merger), with Core Scientific surviving the First Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and (y) the merger of Core Scientific with and into Second Merger Sub (the Second Merger and, together with the First Merger, the Mergers), with Second Merger Sub surviving the Second Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. As a result of the Mergers, among other things, each outstanding share of common stock, $0.00001 per share, of Core Scientific (Core Scientific Common Stock) will be cancelled in exchange for the right to receive a number of shares of Class A common stock, par value $0.0001 per share, of the Company (the Class A Common Stock) in an amount that is approximately equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (a) an amount equal to (x) $4.0 billion, divided by (y) the number of shares of Core Scientific Common Stock on a fully-diluted basis, by (b) $10.00. The Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Closing (i) by mutual written consent of the Company and Core Scientific, (ii) by either the Company or Core Scientific in certain other circumstances set forth in the Agreement, including (a) if the Companys stockholder approval of the Business Combination is not obtained, (b) if any final and nonappealable governmental order will have been issued or otherwise entered into making consummation of the Business Combination illegal or otherwise preventing or prohibiting consummation of the Business Combination, (c) in the event of certain uncured breaches by the other party and (d) if the Closing has not occurred on or before March 21, 2022, (iii) by the Company, if Core Scientific has not delivered written consents of certain Core Scientific stockholders approving the Business Combination as required by the Agreement and (iv) by Core Scientific, if the Companys board of directors changes its recommendation to stockholders relating to the approval of the Business Combination. Simultaneous with its entry into the Agreement, the Company also entered into a Sponsor Agreement (the Sponsor Agreement), by and among the Company, the Sponsor, the other holders of the Companys Class B common stock, (such holders, together with the Sponsor, the Class B Holders), and Core Scientific, whereby, among other things, (a) the Class B Holders agreed to vote their shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock in favor of approving the Agreement and the Business Combination, (b) the Class B Holders agreed to waive any adjustment to the conversion ratio set forth in the Companys organizational documents or any other anti-dilution or similar protection with respect to the shares of Class B Common Stock and (c) the Class B Holders agreed to be bound by certain transfer restrictions with respect to their shares of Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock prior to the Closing. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of the Sponsor Agreement, 20% of the shares of Class B Common Stock held by the Class B Holders (the SPAC Vesting Shares) will be unvested as of the time immediately prior to at the Closing and will vest (and shall not be subject to forfeiture) upon the date on which the volume-weighted average price of the Class A Common Stock is greater than $12.50 per share (as adjusted for stock splits, stock dividends, reorganizations, recapitalizations and the like) for any 20 trading days within any 30 consecutive trading day period within five years of the Closing (the Vesting Period). Any SPAC Vesting Shares that have not vested by the end of the Vesting Period will be deemed to be transferred by the forfeiting holder to the Company without any consideration and shall be cancelled by the Company and cease to exist. Simultaneous with its entry into the Agreement, the Company has entered into a Company Support Agreement (the Support Agreement), by and among the Company, Core Scientific and certain stockholders of Core Scientific (the Core Scientific Stockholders). Under the Support Agreement, the Core Scientific Stockholders have agreed to vote or cause to be voted or to execute and deliver a written consent with respect to the Core Scientific equity securities held by the Core Scientific Stockholders adopting the Agreement and approving the Business Combination. The Core Scientific equity securities that are owned by the Core Scientific Stockholders and subject to the Support Agreement represent more than a majority of the outstanding voting power of Core Scientific shares (on a fully-diluted, as-converted basis). Liquidity and Going Concern As of June 30, 2021, we had approximately $2.1 million in its operating bank account, and working capital of approximately $0.5 million. Our liquidity needs to date have been satisfied through a payment of $25,000 from the Sponsor to cover for certain offering costs in exchange for issuance of the Founder Shares (as defined below), the loan under a promissory note with our Sponsor of approximately $90,000, and the net proceeds from the consummation of the Private Placement not held in the Trust Account. We fully repaid the promissory note on February 15, 2021. In addition, in order to finance transaction costs in connection with an Initial Business Combination, our officers, directors and initial stockholders may, but are not obligated to, provide us Working Capital Loan. As of June 30, 2021, there were no amounts outstanding under any Working Capital Loans. Until the consummation of a Business Combination, we will be using the funds not held in the Trust Account for identifying and evaluating prospective acquisition candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. We will need to raise additional capital through loans or additional investments from its Sponsor, shareholders, officers, directors, or third parties. Our officers, directors and Sponsor may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds from time to time or at any time, in whatever amount they deem reasonable in their sole discretion, to meet our working capital needs. Accordingly, we may not be able to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to raise additional capital, it may be required to take additional measures to conserve liquidity, which could include, but not necessarily be limited to, curtailing operations, suspending the pursuit of a potential transaction, and reducing overhead expenses. 22 We cannot provide any assurance that new financing will be available to it on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern until the earlier of the consummation of the Business Combination or the date the Company is required to liquidate, February 12, 2023. These financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recovery of the recorded assets or the classification of the liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Management continues to evaluate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, and the emergence of new variant strains of COVID-19, on the industry and has concluded that while it is reasonably possible that the virus could have a negative effect on our financial position, results of our operations and/or search for a target company, the specific impact is not readily determinable as of the date of the financial statements. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Results of Operations Our entire activity since inception up to June 30, 2021 was in preparation for our formation, the Initial Public Offering and, subsequent to the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We will not be generating any operating revenues until the closing and completion of our initial Business Combination. For the three months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $5.6 million, which consisted of approximately $3.8 million of a non-operating loss from changes in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and operating losses of approximately $1.5 million, comprised of approximately $1.4 million of general and administrative expenses, approximately $49,000 of franchise tax expenses, partially offset by approximately $13,000 of income from investments held in Trust Account, and a non-operating expense of approximately $278,000 related to offering costs for derivative warrant liabilities. For the six months ended June 30, 2021, we had a net loss of approximately $593,000, which consisted of approximately $2.3 million of a non-operating gain from changes in fair value of derivative warrant liabilities and approximately $23,000 of income from investments held in Trust Account, partially offset by approximately $1.8 million of general and administrative expenses, approximately $98,000 of franchise tax expenses and a non-operating expense of approximately $1.1 million related to offering costs for derivative warrant liabilities. Contractual Obligations Administrative Services Agreement Commencing on the effective date of the registration statement for the Initial Public Offering through the earlier of consummation of the initial Business Combination and the Companys liquidation, the Company agreed to pay affiliates of the Sponsor a total of $20,000 per month for office space, administrative and support services. We incurred approximately $60,000 and $100,000 in general and administrative expenses related party in the accompanying unaudited condensed statements of operations for the three and six months ended June 30, 2021, respectively, related to such services. Registration Rights The holders of Founder Shares, Private Placement Warrants and warrants that may be issued upon conversion of Working Capital Loans, if any (and any shares of common stock issuable upon the exercise of the Private Placement Warrants or warrants issued upon conversion of the Working Capital Loans and upon conversion of the Founder Shares), were entitled to registration rights pursuant to a registration rights agreement signed upon the consummation of the Initial Public Offering. These holders were entitled to certain demand and piggyback registration rights. However, the registration rights agreement provides that we will not be required to effect or permit any registration or cause any registration statement to become effective until termination of the applicable lock-up period. We will bear the expenses incurred in connection with the filing of any such registration statements. Underwriting Agreement We granted the underwriters a 45-day option from the date of the final prospectus relating to the Initial Public Offering to purchase up to 4,500,000 additional Units to cover over-allotments, if any, at the Initial Public Offering price, less underwriting discounts and commissions. On February 12, 2021, the underwriter fully exercised its option to purchase additional Units. The underwriters did not earn any upfront underwriting commission in connection with 2,760,000 Units, including the 2,405,700 Units sold to the Anchor Investors. Except for those Units, the underwriters were entitled to an underwriting discount of $0.20 per Unit sold in the Initial Public Offering on 31,740,000 Units, or approximately $6.3 million, paid upon the closing of the Initial Public Offering. An additional fee of $0.35 per Unit sold in the Initial Public Offering, or approximately $12.1 million in the aggregate, will be payable to the underwriters for deferred underwriting commissions. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. 23 Critical Accounting Policies This managements discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in our financial statements. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to fair value of financial instruments and accrued expenses. We base our estimates on historical experience, known trends and events and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. The Company has identified the following as its critical accounting policies: Derivative Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. Management evaluates all of the Companys financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Boards (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and FASB ASC Topic 815-40, Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Stock (ASC 815). The classification of derivative instruments, including whether such instruments should be classified as liabilities or as equity, is re-assessed at the end of each reporting period. The 8,625,000 warrants issued in the Initial Public Offering (Public Warrants) and the 6,266,667 Private Placement Warrants are recognized as derivative liabilities in accordance with ASC 815. Accordingly, the Company recognizes the warrant instruments as liabilities at fair value and adjusts the instruments to fair value at each reporting period. The liabilities are subject to re-measurement at each balance sheet date until exercised, and any change in fair value is recognized in the Companys statements of operations. The initial estimated fair value of the Public Warrants was measured using a Monte Carlo simulation. The initial and subsequent fair value estimates of the Private Placement Warrants is measured using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. Beginning in April 2021, the estimated fair value of the Private Placement Warrants is based on the listed price in an active market for such warrants. Class A common shares subject to possible redemption We account for its Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance ASC 480. Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable Class A common stock (including shares of Class A common stock that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) are classified as temporary equity. At all other times, Class A common stock are classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock feature certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, at June 30, 2021, 30,769,539 shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption at the redemption amount were presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed balance sheets. Net income per common shares Net income per common share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. We have not considered the effect of the warrants sold in the Initial Public Offering and private placement to purchase an aggregate of 14,891,667 shares in the calculation of diluted income per share, since the exercise of the warrants are contingent upon the occurrence of future events and the inclusion of such warrants would be anti-dilutive. 24 The Companys unaudited condensed statements of operations includes a presentation of income per common share for common shares subject to possible redemption in a manner similar to the two-class method of income per common share. Net income per common share, basic and diluted, for Class A common stock subject to possible redemption is calculated by dividing the proportionate share of income on investments held by the Trust Account, net of applicable franchise and income taxes, by the weighted average number of common stock subject to possible redemption outstanding since original issuance. Net income per share, basic and diluted, for non-redeemable common stock is calculated by dividing the net income, adjusted for income or loss on investments held in the Trust Account attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, by the weighted average number of non-redeemable common stock outstanding for the period. Non-redeemable common stock includes Founder Shares and non-redeemable shares of Class A common stock as these shares do not have any redemption features. Non-redeemable common stock participates in the income or loss on investments held in the Trust Account based on non-redeemable shares proportionate interest. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In August 2020, the FASB issued ASU No. 2020-06, DebtDebt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and HedgingContracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40): Accounting for Convertible Instruments and Contracts in an Entitys Own Equity (ASU 2020-06), which simplifies accounting for convertible instruments by removing major separation models required under current GAAP. The ASU also removes certain settlement conditions that are required for equity-linked contracts to qualify for the derivative scope exception, and it simplifies the diluted earnings per share calculation in certain areas. The Company adopted ASU 2020-06 on January 1, 2021. Adoption of the ASU did not impact the Companys financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Management does not believe that any other recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards if currently adopted would have a material effect on the accompanying condensed financial statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of June 30, 2021, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. JOBS Act The Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act) contains provisions that, among other things, relax certain reporting requirements for qualifying public companies. We qualify as an emerging growth company and under the JOBS Act are allowed to comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements based on the effective date for private (not publicly traded) companies. We are electing to delay the adoption of new or revised accounting standards, and as a result, we may not comply with new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for non-emerging growth companies. As a result, the financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Additionally, we are in the process of evaluating the benefits of relying on the other reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we choose to rely on such exemptions we may not be required to, among other things, (i) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal controls over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404, (ii) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, (iii) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the PCAOB regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis) and (iv) disclose certain executive compensation related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the CEOs compensation to median employee compensation. These exemptions will apply for a period of five years following the completion of our Initial Public Offering or until we are no longer an emerging growth company, whichever is earlier. 25