Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, (the Securities Act) and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act). Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of words such as ability, aim, assume, estimate, plan, possible, project, forecast, goal, opportunity, intend, will, expect, anticipate, believe, enable, seek, target or other similar expressions that predict or indicate future events or trends or that are not statements of historical matters. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding projections, estimates and forecasts of revenue and other financial and performance metrics, projections of market opportunity and expectations, the Companys ability to scale and grow its business, source clean and renewable energy, the advantages and expected growth of the Company and the Companys ability to source and retain talent. These statements are provided for illustrative purposes only and are based on various assumptions, whether or not identified in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and on the current expectations of the Companys management. These forward-looking statements are not intended to serve, and must not be relied on by any investor, as a guarantee, an assurance, a prediction or a definitive statement of fact or probability. Actual events and circumstances are difficult or impossible to predict and will differ from assumptions. Many actual events and circumstances are beyond the control of the Company. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions, known or unknown, that could cause actual results to vary materially from those indicated or anticipated. These risks, assumptions and uncertainties include those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materializes, or if underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may vary materially from those indicated or anticipated by such forward-looking statements. There may be additional risks that the Company could not presently know or that the Company currently believes are immaterial that could also cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements. In addition, forward-looking statements reflect the Companys expectations, plans or forecasts of future events and views as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be relied upon as representing the Companys assessments as of any date subsequent to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company anticipates that subsequent events and developments will cause the Companys assessments to change. However, while the Company may elect to update these forward-looking statements at some point in the future, the Company specifically disclaims any obligation to do so. Accordingly, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date they are made. Item 1. Business Overview Core Scientific, Inc. (we, us, our, the Company, Core Scientific, or Core) is a leader in designing, building and operating digital infrastructure for high-performance computing. Since our inception in 2018, we have been a premier provider and operator of dedicated, purpose-built facilities and software solutions for digital asset mining for ourselves and our third-party customers. We believe that opportunities for growth exist in various applications of our data centers for third-party customers focused on cloud computing as well as machine learning and artificial intelligence, and in March 2024, we announced the provision of digital infrastructure colocation services to a third party engaged in high-performance computing (HPC). In May 2024, we expanded our relationship with CoreWeave, Inc. (CoreWeave) the artificial intelligence (AI) hyperscaler, to provide approximately 200 megawatts (MW) of digital infrastructure to host CoreWeavesHPC operations and provided CoreWeave options with respect to the Companys existing facilities to provide approximately 500 MW of digital infrastructure on similar terms. In June and August 2024, the Company announced CoreWeaves execution of options to secure an additional 70 MW and 112 MW, respectively, of infrastructure to host its HPC operations.In October 2024, the Company announced that CoreWeave had exercised its final option for an additional 120 MW of infrastructure. These new agreements leverage the Companys existing digital infrastructure and expertise in third-party hosting solutions. We believe that using our existing infrastructure for HPC hosting operations will provide more consistent dollar-based revenue and represents substantially less risk than our traditional digital asset self-mining or our digital asset hosted mining operations. As a result, we intend to focus our business development and marketing efforts on expanding our HPC hosting customer base. As a result, we initiated a significant strategic transition from bitcoin mining to hosting and colocation services for customers employing hosting services for HPC workloads such as artificial intelligence-related applications. 4 Table of Contents During 2024, we were substantially engaged in constructing, refurbishing, reallocating or converting a substantial portion of our ten facilities in Alabama (1), Georgia (2), Kentucky (1), North Carolina (1), North Dakota (1), Oklahoma (1), and Texas (3) to support artificial intelligence-related workloads, primarily for our one existing HPC customer, but also to support our commitment to meeting the growing demand for HPC solutions and diversifying our revenue streams. Currently, the vast majority of our revenue is from mining bitcoin for our own account (self-mining). We remain committed to maintaining the efficiency of our digital asset mining while capitalizing on the opportunities presented by the growing HPC hosting business. Business Strategy Our business strategy is to grow our revenue and profitability by expanding our existing large-scale data center infrastructure portfolio configured for specialized computers performing specific, high-value applications such as cloud computing, machine learning and artificial intelligence, and maximizing the portion of our existing infrastructure portfolio contracted for HPC hosting. We intend to continue to strategically develop and make operational the infrastructure necessary to support our existing contractual commitments to our existing HPC customer and to support expected customer growth and additional demand by leveraging our data center expertise and capabilities. We intend to seek additional opportunities and to engage additional customers in the HPC Hosting segment to expand our business into these areas using our knowledge, expertise, existing and future infrastructure where favorable market opportunities exist. Our strategy is focused on hyperscale cloud-based providers and enterprises, including potential customers we believe have significant data center infrastructure needs that have not yet been outsourced or will require additional data center space and power to support their growth and their increasing reliance on technology infrastructure in their operations. We believe our capabilities for serving the needs of large hyperscale providers and enterprises will continue to enable us to capitalize on the growing demand for outsourced data center facilities in our markets and in new markets where our customers are located or plan to be located in the future. Operations Blockchain and Bitcoin Blockchains are decentralized digital ledgers that record and enable secure peer-to-peer transactions without third-party intermediaries. Blockchains enable the existence of bitcoin by allowing participants to confirm transactions without the need for a central certifying authority. When a participant requests a transaction, a peer-to-peer computer network consisting of nodes validates the transaction and the users status using known algorithms. After the transaction is verified, it is combined with other transactions to create a new block of data for the ledger. The new block is added to the existing blockchain in a way that is permanent and unalterable, thereby completing the transaction. As each new block refers back to and connects with the immediately prior solved block associated with it, the addition of a new block adds to the blockchain in a manner similar to a new link being added to a chain. Bitcoin, known as a cryptocurrency, is a medium of exchange that uses encryption techniques to control the creation of units and to verify the transfer of funds. Consumers use digital assets such as bitcoin because they offer lower cost and faster peer-to-peer payment options without the need to provide personal details. Every single transaction, and the ownership of every single digital asset in circulation, is recorded in the blockchain, which effectively contains a record of all account balances. Companies and individuals engaged in mining use powerful miners that tally digital asset transactions to operate the blockchain. These miners update stored records each time a transaction is made and ensure the authenticity of information. Each account on the blockchain is identified solely by its unique public key, which renders it effectively anonymous, and is secured with its associated private key, which is kept secret, like a password. The combination of private and public cryptographic keys constitutes a secure digital identity in the form of a digital signature, providing strong control of ownership. No single entity owns or operates the network associated with these bitcoin. The infrastructure that enables the network is collectively maintained by a decentralized public user base. Because the network operates in a decentralized manner, it does not rely on governmental authorities or financial institutions to create, transmit or determine the value of bitcoin. Rather, value is determined by market factors, primarily the supply and demand for the units, with prices being set in transfers by mutual agreement or through barter among transacting parties, as well as by the number of counterparties that may accept bitcoin. As bitcoin transactions can be broadcast to the network by any users blockchain and bitcoin can be transferred without the involvement of intermediaries or third parties, there are currently little to no transaction costs in direct peer-to-peer transactions involving bitcoin. Bitcoin can be converted to fiat currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, at rates determined on various exchanges. Bitcoin prices are quoted on various exchanges and demonstrate volatility. 5 Table of Contents The user community has viewed bitcoin to offer several advantages over traditional (also known as fiat) currency, including: Acting as a fraud deterrent, as digital assets recorded on a blockchain are virtually impossible to counterfeit, reverse, or modify; Immediate settlement; Elimination of counterparty risk; No requirement for a trusted intermediary; Lower transaction fees; Identity theft prevention; Universal accessibility; Transaction verification and confirmation processes that prevent double spending; Decentralized mining at any time of day without any central authority (governments or financial institutions); and Universal value. During the year ended December 31, 2024, the trading price of one bitcoin ranged from a low of $38,515 in January 2024 to a high of $108,253 in December 2024. As of February 20, 2025, the trading price of one bitcoin was $98,334. Bitcoin Mining In a proof-of-work approach such as bitcoin, specialized computers, or miners, power and secure blockchains by solving complex cryptographic algorithms to validate transactions on specific digital asset networks. In order to add blocks to the blockchain, a miner must map an input data set consisting of the existing blockchain, plus a block of the most recent digital asset transactions and an arbitrary number called a nonce, to an output data set of a predetermined length using the SHA256 cryptographic hash algorithm. Solving these algorithms is also known as solving or completing a block. In the Bitcoin network, solving a block results in a reward of bitcoin in a process known as mining. These rewards of bitcoin currently can be sold profitably when the sale price of bitcoin exceeds the cost of mining, which generally consists of the cost of mining hardware, the cost of the electrical power to operate the machine, and other facility and overhead costs associated with housing, operating and supporting the equipment. Mining processing power is generally referred to as hashing power. A hash is the computation run by mining hardware in support of the blockchain. A miners hash rate refers to the rate at which it is capable of solving such computations per second. Miners with a higher rated hash rate when operating at maximum efficiency have a higher chance of completing a block in the blockchain and receiving a digital asset reward than those operating at a lower hash rate or with lower efficiency. Currently, the likelihood that an individual mining participant acting alone will solve a block and be awarded a digital asset reward is extremely low. As a result, to maximize the opportunities to receive a reward, most large-scale mining organizations have joined with other similar operators in mining pools where the computing power of each pool participant is coordinated to complete the block on the blockchain and mining rewards are distributed to participants in accordance with the rules of the mining pool. Fees payable to the operator of the pool typically represent 0.05% to 0.08% of the reward earned and are deducted from the amounts earned by each pool participant. Mining pools are subject to various risks including communication connection issues, outages and other disruptions that can impact the quantity of digital assets earned by participants. The miners we operate are highly specialized computer servers built to use application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC) chips that are designed specifically to mine bitcoin. With miners we produce computing power, known as hash rate, with which we verify transactions on the Bitcoin blockchain. Bitcoin mining refers to the process of proposing and verifying transaction updates to the Bitcoin blockchain, which helps keep the Bitcoin network and its blockchain secure. Our bitcoin mining operation is focused on the generation of bitcoin by solving complex cryptographic algorithms to validate transactions on the Bitcoin network blockchain, which is commonly referred to as mining. Our digital asset self-mining activity competes with myriad mining operations throughout the world to complete new blocks on the blockchain and earn the reward in the form of bitcoin. Mathematically Controlled Supply The method for creating new bitcoin is mathematically controlled in a manner such that the supply of bitcoin grows at a limited rate, based on a pre-determined schedule. The number of bitcoin awarded for solving a new block is automatically halved every 210,000 blocks. This means every block up to and including block 210,000 produced a reward of 50 bitcoin, while blocks beginning with 210,001 produced a reward of 25 bitcoin. Since blocks are mined on average every 10 minutes, 144 blocks are mined per day, on average. At 144 blocks per day, 210,000 blocks take four years to mine, on average. The current fixed reward for solving a new block decreased to 3.125 bitcoin per block in April 2024, from 6.25 bitcoin per block. The next halving for the bitcoin blockchain is 6 Table of Contents anticipated to occur in 2028 at block 1,050,000. This deliberately controlled rate of bitcoin creation means that the number of bitcoin in existence will never exceed 21 million unless the Bitcoin networks source code (and the underlying protocol for bitcoin issuance) is altered. Digital asset mining profitability depends on access to low-cost energy, driving the expansion of infrastructure in regions with the most affordable power. Owning and operating this infrastructure enabled our strategic transition to HPC hosting services, which generate higher recurring revenues than digital asset mining. We expect this trend to continue, as the demand for low-cost power remains a critical factor for both digital asset mining and emerging AI and data center workloads. High-Performance Computing Hosting HPC is a technology that uses clusters of powerful processors that work in parallel to process massive data sets and solve complex problems at extremely high speeds. The proliferation of data, as well as data-intensive and AI enabled applications and use cases, is driving demand for the computing power of HPC. Traditionally, HPC has involved an on-premises infrastructure, investing in supercomputers or computer clusters. Our HPC hosting revenue is generated by licensing colocation data center space and related services to a licensee at our Austin, Texas data center. These licensing agreements and orders include lease components, nonlease components (such as power delivery, physical security, maintenance and other billable expenses), as well as noncomponent elements such as taxes. Under these contracts, customers pay fixed payments (based on electric capacity) and variable payments on a recurring basis. HPC colocation leases may include all or portions of a data center, where customers may also lease office space to support their colocation operations where revenue is primarily based on power usage as well as square footage. Segments We have three operating segments: Digital Asset Self-Mining, consisting of performing digital asset mining for our own account, Digital Asset Hosted Mining, consisting of providing hosting services to third parties for digital asset mining, and HPC Hosting, consisting of providing hosting services to third parties for graphics processing unit (GPU) based HPC hosting operations. Prior to April 1, 2024, we operated only in the Digital Asset Self-Mining and Digital Asset Hosted Mining segments. Our Digital Asset Self-Mining operation segment generates revenue from the deployment and operation our own large fleet of computers (miners) within our owned digital infrastructure as part of a pool of users that process transactions conducted on one or more blockchain networks. In exchange for this activity, we receive digital assets in the form of bitcoin. We began digital asset mining at scale in 2018 and in 2020 became one of the largest North American providers of hosting services primarily for third-party mining customers. We had an average hourly operating power demand of approximately 572 MW for the year ended December 31, 2024. Our Digital Asset Hosted Mining operation segment generates revenue through the sale of electricity-based consumption contracts for our hosting services, which are recurring in nature. Our Digital Asset Hosted Mining operation segment provides a full suite of services to our digital asset mining customers. We provide deployment, monitoring, troubleshooting, optimization and maintenance of our customers digital asset mining equipment and provide necessary electrical power, repair and other infrastructure services necessary for our customers to operate, maintain and efficiently mine digital assets. We do not expect to further expand our Digital Asset Hosted Mining operations in 2025 and future years. Our HPC Hosting operation segment generates revenue by providing colocation, cloud and connectivity services to customers in exchange for a fee. Our HPC Hosting operation segment provides colocation, facilities operations, security and other services to third-party HPC customers to support workloads for machine learning and artificial intelligence. As of December 31, 2024, we have secured approximately 1,317 MW of contracted power capacity to operate and manage one of the largest data center infrastructure asset bases among publicly listed North American miners with operational capacity of approximately 784 MW to support of our existing and planned HPC operations as well as our existing digital asset mining operations. Suppliers Power Providers Historically, we have contracted with large electric utility providers to provide a sufficient supply of electricity to power the mining operations in our facilities. We have fixed, variable and interruptible bi-lateral power supply consumption agreements with electric power suppliers at our various facilities. These agreements provide for both firm and interruptible power supply through each providers transmission and distribution systems to dedicated substations owned by the power provider, the local utility or the 7 Table of Contents Company. We value our relationships with our power providers and work to lever our operating capabilities to take advantage of any interruptible programs and cost saving opportunities. The table below summarizes the contracted capacity in megawatts (MW) by facility location and electric utility provider as of December 31, 2024: Electric Utility Providers Contracted Power Capacity (MW) Facility Location Tennessee Valley Authority 150 Calvert City, Kentucky ("Calvert") Murphy Electric Power Board 35 Marble, North Carolina ("Marble 1") Duke Energy 68 Marble, North Carolina ("Marble 2") Dalton Utilities 53 Dalton, Georgia ("Dalton 1 & 2") Dalton Utilities 142 Dalton, Georgia ("Dalton 3") Nodak Electric Cooperative, Inc. 100 Grand Forks, North Dakota ("Grand Forks") Denton Municipal Electric 391 Denton, Texas ("Denton") Texas New-Mexico Power 253 Pecos, Texas ("Cottonwood) Oklahoma Gas & Electric 100 Muskogee, Oklahoma ("Muskogee 1") Austin Energy 15 Austin, Texas Alabama Power Company 10 Auburn, Alabama Total 1,317 Facility Development Our experienced in-house facility development teams, utilizing from time to time the expertise of third parties, focus on sourcing, evaluating, designing, engineering,and developing the facilities where we host our customers HPC colocation needs and facilities where we earn digital assets, primarily bitcoin, through self-mining. We primarily engage third parties to construct our facilities according to our design specifications. Mining Equipment Our mining operations rely on specialized digital asset mining hardware equipped with ASIC chips ("ASICs") designed to solve cryptographic hashes for blockchain networks using the SHA-256 algorithm. Historically, we have sourced substantially all of our miners from Bitmain Technologies Limited (Bitmain), one of the leading manufacturers of digital asset mining equipment. In 2024 we entered into an agreement with Block, Inc. a technology company developing ASICs, to acquire 3 nm ASICs customized for digital asset mining. We intend to utilize the ASICs in custom manufactured mining machines to refresh a portion of our existing mining fleet. We intend to design these machines to maximize available mining infrastructure, optimize mining performance and reduce the total cost of digital asset mining within our mining facilities. As of December 31, 2024, we had deployed approximately 171,100 bitcoin miners, which number consists of approximately 164,000 self-miners and approximately 7,100 hosted miners, which represented 19.1 exahash per second (EH/s) and 1.0 EH/s for self-miners and hosted miners, respectively. Human Resources As of December 31, 2024, we had 325 full-time employees. All of our employees are located in the United States in more than 30 states. We also engage consultants and contractors to supplement our permanent workforce on an as needed basis. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by collective bargaining agreements, and we have not experienced any work stoppages. Our mission and values are the foundation for our Company culture. More specifically, our mission is to accelerate digital innovation by scaling high-value computing rapidly, efficiently, and responsibly. As for our values, they include: (1) operating with integrity and maintaining the highest standards, and supporting each other as a single team, to ensure our collective success (Team 8 Table of Contents First); (2) acting as owners of the business, in the interest of all stakeholders, holding ourselves and each other accountable for our actions and outcomes (Extreme Ownership); (3) relentlessly seeking to accelerate the worlds digital transformation and improve the way we do business to reduce costs, improve quality and grow (Innovate & Simplify); and (4) seeking to maximize transparency with all our stakeholders to ensure understanding, alignment and constructive dialog (Transparency). Our mission and values reflect who we are and the way our employees interact with one another, our customers, partners, and shareholders. Working together and guided by our mission and values, we are committed to creating a company where everyone is included and respected, and where we support each other in reaching our full potential. Additionally, Core Scientific works diligently to attract and retain top talent from a diverse range of sources in order to meet the current and future demands of our business. Our competitive compensation and benefits offerings in combination with a strong employee value proposition leverages our shared sense of purpose and collaborative working environment as well as our innovative and cutting-edge business helps us attract and retain top talent at our Company. Furthermore, we strive to empower our people to find new and better ways of doing things, and our dynamic business means that careers can develop in exciting and unexpected directions. Competition Each of the HPC and bitcoin mining markets are highly competitive. In the HPC market, we compete with numerous established data center providers, including Equinix, Inc., Digital Realty Trust, NTT, Switch, Inc., and CyrusOne Inc., as well as private operators specializing in HPC or colocation services, and digital asset miners looking to convert existing digital mining facilities into HPC colocation facilities. Many of these competitors are better established, have better brand recognition, and are well capitalized, and organized to take advantage of certain tax benefits for their investors, lowering their external cost of capital. Many of our competitors seek to establish data centers in the same geographic regions as we do and compete for the same sources of power, equipment and customers as Core Scientific. Competitors compete on price, facility location, reputation and perceived skill with respect to performance. We believe that our experience in the digital asset mining market, our ability to rapidly deliver scalable, purpose-built data centers, combined with cutting-edge, energy-efficient technologies, will enable us to compete favorably within the HPC market. Our bitcoin self-mining operations compete globally with other mining operations throughout the world to complete new blocks on the blockchain and earn the reward in the form of bitcoin. We compete on the basis of our total number of miners, the hash rate we are able to consistently generate, the size and skill of the mining pool through which we participate and the efficiency of our miner and mining operations. A mining pool is created when mining participants pool the processing power of their miners over a network and mine transactions together. Rewards are then distributed proportionately to the pool participants based on the work/hash power contributed to solving a block. Digital asset mining is now dominated by large-scale, industrial miners operating large dedicated facilities around the world, including sovereign nation states with considerable resources who mine directly or support mining operations through their sovereign wealth funds, all of whom compete to solve new blocks, acquire new and used miners, and purchase and consume energy and supplies to build mining facilities. Our mining operations also compete with non-digital asset operations for access to suitable real estate and access to affordable and dependable electric power. In addition to competing to solve new blocks, we compete to acquire new miners, to raise capital, to obtain access to facilities for the location of mining operations, and to develop or acquire new technologies. Our hosting activities compete with a large number of other hosting operations. Our success in our hosting operations depends on our ability to supply hosting space and power, our performance with respect to installation, operation and repair of customer equipment, our ability to obtain replacement parts, the value of our service offering to our customers and the availability of mining equipment. To compete effectively as a hosting provider, we continue to market our services effectively to large-scale miners that value our ability to host at scale and who are willing to pay a premium hosting fee for our high up-time and operational expertise. In both our self-mining and hosting activities, we additionally compete with other operations and participants for equity and debt financing since our business is capital intensive. Several public companies (traded in the United States, Canada, and internationally), such as the following, may be considered self-mining and hosting competitors to the Company: Argo Blockchain PLC; Bit Digital, Inc.; Bitfarms Ltd.; 9 Table of Contents Cipher Mining Inc.; CleanSpark, Inc.; Hive Blockchain Technologies Inc.; Hut 8 Corp.; Marathon Digital Holdings, Inc.; Riot Platforms, Inc.; and TeraWulf Inc. Other market participants in the bitcoin mining industry include investors and speculators, retail users transacting in digital assets, and service companies that provide a variety of services, including buying, selling, payment processing and storing of bitcoin. To continue to be successful, we will require sufficient additional capital to build additional facilities and to acquire new mining equipment and related infrastructure. Subject to raising additional capital, our bitcoin initiatives will compete with other industry participants that focus on investing in and securing the blockchains of bitcoin and other digital assets. Emergence from Bankruptcy On January 15, 2024, the Company and certain of its affiliates filed with the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Texas (the Bankruptcy Court) the Fourth Amended Joint Chapter 11 Plan of Core Scientific, Inc. and its Affiliated Debtors (with Technical Modifications) (the Plan of Reorganization). On January 16, 2024, the Bankruptcy Court entered an order confirming the Plan of Reorganization. On January 23, 2024 (the Effective Date), the conditions to the effectiveness of the Plan of Reorganization were satisfied or waived and the Company emerged from bankruptcy. On January 24, 2024, the Companys common shares began trading on the Nasdaq market under the ticker symbol CORZ. On the Effective Date, a new Board of Directors was constituted and the Company, in accordance with the Plan of Reorganization satisfied and extinguished claims in the Chapter 11 cases through the issuance of (i) new common stock (New Common Stock), (ii) new warrants (New Warrants), (iii) contingent value rights (CVRs), (iv) new secured convertible notes due 2029 (New Secured Convertible Notes), and (v) new secured notes due 2028 (New Secured Notes). For more detailed information regarding our emergence from bankruptcy, refer to Notes 3 Chapter 11 Filing and Emergence from Bankruptcy, 8 Convertible and Other Notes Payable, 9 Contingent Value Rights and Warrant Liabilities and 12 Stockholders' Deficit to our consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Intellectual Property We seek protection for our intellectual property as appropriate. To establish and protect our proprietary rights, we rely upon a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws and contractual restrictions such as confidentiality agreements, licenses and intellectual property assignment agreements. We have filed over 120 patent applications in technologies such as blockchain, data center management, infrastructure and cooling. The patent applications have been filed in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. A subset of the patent applications have issued as patents. We maintain a policy requiring our employees, contractors, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements to control access to our proprietary information. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection, and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated. Furthermore, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we therefore may be unable to protect our proprietary technology in certain jurisdictions. Moreover, our platform incorporates software components licensed to the general public under open-source software licenses. We obtain many components from software developed and released by contributors to independent open-source components of our platform. Open-source licenses grant licensees broad permissions to use, copy, modify and redistribute those open-source components of our platform. As a result, open-source development and licensing practices can limit the value of our software copyright assets. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. To protect our brand, we file trademark registrations in some jurisdictions. 10 Table of Contents Government Regulation Due to the relatively short history of digital assets like bitcoin, and their emergence as a new asset class, government regulation of blockchain and bitcoin is constantly evolving, with increased interest expressed by U.S. and international regulators. In October 2020, the Cyber-Digital Task Force of the U.S. Department of Justice published a report entitled Cryptocurrency: An Enforcement Framework that detailed the Departments view with respect to digital assets and the tools at the Departments disposal to deal with threats posed by digital assets. In February 2021, representatives of the government of Inner Mongolia, China announced plans to ban digital asset mining within the province due to the energy and rare earth mineral demands of the industry. In March 2021, the nominee for Chair of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) expressed the need for investor protection along with promotion of innovation in the digital asset space. In March 2022, former President Biden signed an Executive Order outlining an whole-of-government approach to addressing the risks and harnessing the potential benefits of digital assets and its underlying technology. The executive order lays out a national policy for digital assets over six highlighted priorities. In January 2023, the U.S. House of Representatives created a new congressional subcommittee focused on digital assets, the Subcommittee of Digital Assets, Financial Technology and Inclusion, operating under the House Financial Services Committee. In addition to the activities of the United States federal government and its various agencies and regulatory bodies, government regulation of blockchain and digital assets is also under active consideration by similar entities in other countries and transnational organizations, such as the European Union. State and local regulations within the United States also may apply to our activities and other activities in which we may participate in the future. Other governmental or semi-governmental regulatory bodies have shown an interest in regulating or investigating companies engaged in blockchain or digital asset businesses. For instance, the SEC has taken an active role in regulating the use of public offerings of proprietary coins (so-called initial coin offerings) and has made statements and official promulgations as to the status of certain digital assets other than bitcoin as securities subject to regulation by the SEC. The effect of any regulatory change by the federal, state, local or foreign governments or any self-regulatory agencies on the Company is impossible to predict, but such change could be substantial and may have a material adverse effect on the Companys business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in November 2022, the State of New York enacted a law prohibiting new proof-of-work mining activities that use power generated from carbon inputs. While the Company does not currently operate in New York, there is no guarantee that future regulation or adverse action will not take place and interpretation of existing regulations in a manner adverse to our business is possible. In January 2024, a decade after initial applications were filed, the SEC approved a series of spot Bitcoin exchange-traded funds, which have received billions of dollars of in-flows. In February 2024, the U.S. Energy Information Administration (the EIA) commenced a six-month survey among participants in the U.S. cryptocurrency mining industry to collect data to track and analyze the electricity consumption by such industry participants. The EIAs analysis would focus on how the energy demand for cryptocurrency mining is evolving, identify geographic areas of high growth, and quantify the sources of electricity used to meet cryptocurrency mining demand. It is unclear what, if any, regulatory policy changes may result following the collection and analysis of the data obtained through the EIAs survey if it proceeds, but if regulators seek to curb electricity consumption by cryptocurrency mining operations in the future our business could be adversely affected. As of February 23, 2024, the U.S. Department of Energy (the agency governing the EIA) agreed to temporarily suspend this survey following a lawsuit by a cryptocurrency association and bitcoin mining company. Most recently, in January 2025, the Acting SEC Chairman announced the launch of a crypto task force dedicated to developing a comprehensive and clear regulatory framework for crypto assets, in contrast to the SECs prior reliance on enforcement actions to regulate cryptocurrencies. The extent and content of any forthcoming laws and regulations are not yet ascertainable, and they may not be ascertainable in the near future. The Company will closely monitor the outcome of this and other regulatory developments concerning cryptocurrency mining, as to the potential effects on our business. In addition, various foreign jurisdictions either have adopted, or may adopt, laws, regulations or directives that affect digital assets such as bitcoin, digital asset networks, and their users and participants. Such laws, regulations or directives may conflict with those of the United States, may negatively impact the acceptance of bitcoin by users, merchants and service providers outside of the United States, and may therefore impede the growth of bitcoin. Presently, we do not believe any U.S. or state regulatory body other than the State of New York has taken any action or position adverse to bitcoin with respect to its production, sale, and use as a medium of exchange; however, future changes to existing regulations or entirely new regulations may affect our business in ways it is not presently possible for us to predict with any reasonable degree of certainty. As the regulatory and legal environment evolves, we may become subject to new laws, such as further regulation by the SEC and other agencies, which may affect our mining and other activities. 11 Table of Contents Environmental The effects of human activity on global climate change have attracted considerable public and scientific attention, as well as the attention of the United States and other foreign governments. In general, efforts are being made by government regulators and others to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly those from coal combustion power plants. Some of these plants may be those our operations rely upon for power. In addition, there are increasing concerns over the quantity of energy, particularly from non-renewable sources, used for bitcoin mining and its effects on the environment (with lesser recognition for any positive contributions by bitcoin mining to the operation of existing electrical grids and systems). While the nature or effect on the Company of any environmental regulatory changes by federal, state, local or foreign governments or self-regulatory agencies is impossible to predict, the added cost of any environmental taxes, charges, assessments or penalties levied on power plants we rely upon could be passed on to us, increasing the cost to run our facilities. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements on our operations, our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position could be materially adversely impacted. Seasonality The Companys production of bitcoin and its HPC operation can be affected when extreme temperatures in locations where its data centers operate result in local power price volatility that necessitates economic or grid stabilization-driven curtailment. Our HPC data centers run on back-up generators in the event of a power outage or curtailment. Digital asset generation from the Companys mining operations may also vary depending on the Companys total hash rate at a given point in time relative to the total hash rate of the Bitcoin network. Corporate Information Our principal executive offices are located at 838 Walker Road, Suite 21-2105, Dover, Delaware 19904, and our telephone number is (512) 402-5233. Our corporate website address is www.corescientific.com. Information contained on or accessible through our website is not a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the inclusion of our website address in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is an inactive textual reference. Available Information Our principal executive offices and telephone number are listed on the cover page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our website address is www.corescientific.com. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our internet address is included in this document as an inactive textual reference only. We currently make our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy reports and all amendments to those reports available free of charge on our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports with, or furnish such reports to, the SEC. You can access our filings through the SECs internet site: www.sec.gov (intended to be an inactive textual reference only). 12 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and related notes elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before deciding to invest in our securities. Although we have organized risks generally according to these categories in the discussion below, many of the risks may have ramifications in more than one category. These categories, therefore, should be viewed as a starting point for understanding the significant risks we face and not as a limitation on the potential impact of the matters discussed. If any of the events or developments described below were to occur, our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition could suffer materially, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Summary of Selected Risk Factors Associated with an Investment in Our Securities The following is a summary of the principal risks associated with an investment in our securities: Our success depends in large part on our ability to timely and successfully convert our existing facilities to support our HPC customers and to attract new HPC customers. Delays in the expansion or modification of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities or significant cost overruns could present significant risks to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Currently our HPC business is highly dependent on a single customer. Our increased focus on HPC hosting may not be successful and depends on the continuing development and resource and computational requirements of HPC hosting applications such as cloud computing, machine learning and artificial intelligence and continuing need for the infrastructure and services we provide. If our target customer markets, which are new and still developing, do not grow or develop as expected or in a manner consistent with our current business model, our business, financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected. Our success is also dependent on our ability to earn bitcoin profitably, and we may not be able to maintain our competitive position as the Bitcoin network experience increases in total network hash rate. Our business is capital intensive, we will need to raise additional capital, and failure to obtain the necessary capital when needed will force us to delay, limit or terminate our expansion efforts or other operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our need for significant electric power and the limited availability of electrical power and resources, equipment and materials designed to provide usable electrical power within our facilities. In addition, public sentiment regarding electrical power generation, usage and storage, high volume electrical use and climate change, may limit our access to electrical power, decrease available facility sites, and increase our costs and limit the demand for our HPC colocation services. An inability to purchase and develop additional sources of low-cost sources of energy effectively or to obtain real estate, materials and equipment to operate our facilities efficiently will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure in our critical systems, facilities or services we provide could lead to disruptions in our and our customers businesses and could harm our reputation and result in financial penalty and legal liabilities, which would reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there are significant changes to the method of validating blockchain transactions, such changes could reduce demand for our blockchain hosting services. We may be vulnerable to physical security breaches, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A slowdown in market and economic conditions, particularly those impacting the cloud computing, machine learning and AI industries, the demand for HPC infrastructure and services, and the blockchain industry and the blockchain hosting market, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Digital assets, and bitcoin in particular, are subject to price volatility. The value of bitcoin is dependent on a number of factors, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents The halving of rewards available on the Bitcoin network, or the reduction of rewards on other networks, has had and in the future could have a negative impact on our ability to generate revenue as our customers may not have an adequate incentive to continue mining and customers may cease mining operations altogether, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the award of bitcoin and/or transaction fees for solving blocks is not sufficiently high to incentivize transaction processors, such processors may reduce or cease expending processing power on a particular network, which could negatively impact the utility of the network, reduce the value of its bitcoin and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The cash needs of our HPC hosting growth initiatives will limit the amount of digital assets we hold, thus preventing us from recognizing any gain from the appreciation in value of the digital assets we have sold and may sell in the future. Any change in the interpretive positions of the SEC or its staff with respect to digital asset mining firms could have a material adverse effect on us. Recent developments have increased the likelihood that U.S. federal and state legislatures and regulatory agencies will enact laws and regulations to regulate digital assets and digital asset intermediaries, such as digital asset exchanges and custodians. Increasing scrutiny and changing expectations from government regulators, investors, lenders, customers, and other market participants with respect to Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) policies may impose additional costs on us or expose us to additional risks. Our compliance and risk management methods might not be effective and may result in outcomes that could adversely affect our reputation, operating results, and financial condition. We may not have adequate sources of recovery if the bitcoin or other digital assets held by us are lost, stolen or destroyed due to third-party digital asset services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our actual financial results after emergence from bankruptcy may not be comparable to our historical financial results or our projections filed with the Bankruptcy Court or otherwise made public in the course of the Chapter 11 Cases. Risks Related to our Businesses and Industries Our success depends in large part on our ability to timely and successfully convert our existing facilities to support our HPC customers and to attract new HPC customers. Delays in the expansion or modification of existing facilities or the construction of new facilities or significant cost overruns could present significant risks to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to timely and successfully convert our existing facilities to support our HPC customers will be negatively impacted by: deficiencies, delays or failures in performance by construction firms retained to build, build-out or remodel our facilities; disruptions in the supply chain or excessive demand for construction materials, electrical transformers, generators and other materials used in high performance data centers that delay receipt of, or make unavailable, required supplies, materials and equipment; difficulties in generating sufficient cash flow or obtaining necessary financing that delay or prevent the completion of planned facilities; failure to timely pay construction costs and expenses, including failure on the part of our customers to pay or reimburse costs and expenses when due; or delays in obtaining necessary government approvals, receipt of power allocations, land acquisitions and easements, as well as change orders, modification to designs and construction plans that delay construction, increase costs or that reduce the usable electrical power footprint. Currently our HPC business is highly dependent on a single customer. One customer, CoreWeave, currently accounts for 100% of our HPC Hosting segment revenue. Our success in the HPC Hosting segment is highly dependent on the success of CoreWeave and the fulfillment by it of its obligations under our existing contractual arrangements. Any failure to meet CoreWeaves expectations, including, but not limited to, failure to fulfill our contractual 14 Table of Contents obligations, could result in cancellation or non-renewal of our business relationship, or harm to our business relationship that could impact our future growth and which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our increased focus on HPC hosting may not be successful and depends on the continuing development and resource and computational requirements of HPC hosting applications such as cloud computing, machine learning and artificial intelligence and continuing need for the infrastructure and services we provide. If our target customer markets, which are new and still developing, do not grow or develop as expected or in a manner consistent with our current business model, our business, financial condition and results of operation would be adversely affected. Further, increases in power costs could negatively impact our hosting customers demand for services, harm our growth prospects and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success also depends in large part on our ability to attract additional customers and retain our existing customer for our HPC Hosting capabilities in a profitable manner, which we may not be able to do if: there is a reduction in the demand for HPC hosting applications such as cloud computing, machine learning and artificial intelligence; rapid innovation and technological disruption in cloud computing, machine learning and artificial intelligence decrease computational requirements and therefore lower demand for our HPC hosting offerings; high energy costs, supply chain disruptions (including labor availability), government regulation, and compliance costs increase HPC hosting service costs, reduces potential demand for services and reduce revenue and profitability; we fail to provide competitive hosting terms or effectively market them to potential customers; we provide hosting services that are deemed by existing and potential customers or suppliers to be inferior to those of our competitors, or that fail to meet customers or suppliers ongoing and evolving program qualification standards, based on a range of factors, including available power, preferred design features, security considerations and connectivity; businesses decide to host internally as an alternative to the use of our services; we fail to successfully communicate the benefits of our services to potential customers; we are unable to strengthen awareness of our brand; or we are unable to provide services that our existing and potential customers desire. Our success in our digital asset segments depends in large part on our ability to earn bitcoin in a profitable manner. In the past, increases in power costs have impacted our ability to earn digital assets efficiently and reduced bitcoin pricing have reduced our operating margins. Future increases in power costs and unfavorable prices for digital assets will harm our growth prospects and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success in our digital asset segments depends in large part on our ability to earn bitcoin and to provide services to the customers of our hosting capabilities in a profitable manner, which we may not be able to do if: there is a reduction in the demand for bitcoin causing the price of bitcoin to fall reducing revenue from our self-mining operations; high energy costs, supply chain disruptions or government regulation compliance costs increase mining costs and reduce revenue and profitability; or we are unable to secure an adequate supply of new generation digital asset mining equipment. We may not be able to maintain our competitive position as the Bitcoin network experiences increases in total network hash rate. As the relative market prices of a digital asset, such as bitcoin, increases, more companies are encouraged to mine for that digital asset and as more miners are added to the network, its total hash rate increases. In order for us to maintain our competitive position under such circumstances, we must increase our total hash rate by acquiring and deploying more mining machines, including new miners with higher hash rates. There are currently only a few companies capable of producing a sufficient number of machines with adequate quality to address the increased demand. If we are not able to acquire and deploy additional miners on a timely basis, our proportion of the overall network hash rate will decrease and we will have a lower chance of solving new blocks which will have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents As more processing power is added to a network, our relative percentage of total processing power on that network is expected to decline absent significant capital investment, which has an adverse impact on our ability to generate revenue from processing transactions on that network and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Processing power on networks has been increasing rapidly over time while the rewards and transaction fees available on those networks tends to decline over time. In order to grow or maintain the revenue we generate from processing transactions on such networks, we are required to invest significant capital to acquire new computer servers, expand our power capacity and otherwise increase our effective processing power on such networks. In the event we are unable to invest sufficient capital to grow or maintain the level of our processing power on a network relative to the total processing power of such network, our revenue from the applicable network will decline over time and as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a decrease in the price of computer servers may result in an increase in transaction processors, which may lead to more competition for fees in a particular network. In the event we are unable to realize adequate fees on a network due to increased competition, our revenue from the applicable network will decline over time and in turn, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is capital intensive, and failure to obtain the necessary capital when needed will force us to delay, limit or terminate our expansion efforts or other operations, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of constructing, developing, operating and maintaining our HPC and digital mining facilities, and owning and operating a large fleet of the latest generation digital mining equipment, are substantial. Our HPC hosting operations may be impacted by costs and expenses beyond our control or require capital investment that neither we nor our customers are able to bear, reducing our revenue and profitability. Our digital asset mining operation can only be successful and ultimately profitable if the costs, including hardware and electricity costs, associated with earning digital assets are lower than the price of the digital assets we earn. Falling digital asset prices or asset prices that do not keep pace with higher energy prices, significantly higher energy prices, inflation and supply chain disruptions reduce our profitability. Our miners experience ordinary wear and tear from operation and may also face more significant malfunctions caused by factors which may be beyond our control, increasing our costs and reducing our revenue and profitability. The continual upgrade and refresh of mining machines requires substantial capital investment, and we may face challenges in doing so on a timely basis based on availability of new miners and our access to adequate capital resources. If we are unable to obtain adequate numbers of new and replacement miners at scale, we may be unable to remain competitive in our highly competitive and evolving industry. Moreover, in order to grow our hosting business, we may need additional facilities to increase our capacity for more miners. The costs of constructing, developing, operating and maintaining hosting facilities and growing our hosting operations may not be profitable or possible. We may need to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings in order to meet our operating and capital needs. Raising additional debt or equity financing may be difficult and may not be available when needed or, if available, may not be available on satisfactory terms. An inability to generate sufficient cash from operations or to obtain additional debt or equity financing have adversely affected our results of operations. Our business is highly dependent on a small number of digital asset mining equipment suppliers. Our business is highly dependent upon a few digital asset mining equipment suppliers providing an adequate and timely supply of new generation digital asset mining machines at economical prices. The growth in our business is dependent in large part on the availability of new generation mining machines offered for sale at a price conducive to profitable digital asset mining, as well as the trading price of digital assets such as bitcoin. The market price and availability of new mining machines fluctuates with the price of bitcoin and can be volatile. Higher bitcoin prices increase the demand for mining equipment and increases the cost. In addition, as more companies seek to enter the mining industry, the demand for machines may outpace supply and create mining machine equipment shortages. Digital asset mining equipment suppliers, may not be able to keep pace with any surge in demand for mining equipment. Further, manufacturing mining machine purchase contracts are not favorable to purchasers and we may have little or no recourse in the event a mining machine manufacturer defaults on its mining machine delivery commitments. If we are not able to 16 Table of Contents obtain a sufficient number of digital asset mining machines at favorable prices, our growth expectations, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted. Miner manufacturers may continue requiring significant advance deposits before orders are fulfilled and delivered. Historically, miner manufacturers have required advance deposits for miner purchases. These deposits tie up significant amounts of cash several months before mining machines are received and operable to generate revenue. These advance deposits further drive the financial burden of operating a capital-intensive business. Miner manufacturers holding a deposit from the Company may go out of business before delivering purchased miners, or for other reasons fail to deliver the miners associated with the deposit. There is no certainty that, in such circumstances, the Company would succeed in recovering any of its deposit, which could materially and adversely affect its business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our reliance on third-party mining pool service providers for our earned mining reward payouts may have a negative impact on our operations. We utilize third party mining pools to receive our earned mining rewards from a given network. Mining pools allow mining participants to combine their processing power, which increases the chances of solving a block and the pool getting paid by the network. Contractually determined rewards are distributed by the pool operator, proportionally to our contribution to the pools overall mining power used to generate each block. We are dependent on the accuracy of the mining pool operators record keeping to accurately record our proportion of the total processing power provided to the pool. While we have internal methods of tracking both our power provided and the total power used by the pool, the mining pool operator uses its own method to determine our proportion of the pools total rewards. We have little means of recourse against the mining pool operator if we determine the proportion of the reward paid out to us by a mining pool operator is incorrect, other than leaving the pool. If we are unable to consistently obtain accurate proportionate rewards from our mining pool operators, we may experience reduced reward for our efforts, which would have an adverse effect on our business and operations. If we do not accurately predict our facility requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The costs of building out, leasing and maintaining our facilities constitute a significant portion of our capital and operating expenses. In order to manage growth and ensure adequate capacity for our new and existing HPC hosting customers while minimizing unnecessary excess capacity costs, we continuously evaluate our short- and long-term data center capacity requirements. If we overestimate our business capacity requirements or the demand for our services and therefore secure excess data center capacity, our operating margins could be materially reduced. If we underestimate our data center capacity requirements, we may not be able to service the required or expanding needs of our existing customers and may be required to limit new customer acquisition, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks associated with our need for significant electric power and the limited availability of electrical power and resources, equipment and materials designed to provide usable electrical power within our facilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An inability to purchase and develop additional sources of low-cost sources of energy effectively or to obtain real estate, materials and equipment to operate our facilities efficiently will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our businesses require a significant amount of electric power. The costs of electric power account for a significant portion of our cost of revenue. We require a significant electric power supply to conduct our mining activity and to provide many hosting services we offer, such as powering and cooling our and our customers servers and network equipment and operating critical mining and facility and equipment infrastructure. The amount of power required by us and our customers will increase commensurate with the demand for our services and the increase in miners we operate for ourselves and our hosting customers. Energy costs and availability are vulnerable to seasonality, with increased costs primarily in the summer months and risks of outages and power grid damage as a result of inclement weather, animal incursion, sabotage and other events out of our control. Higher than expected power rates in 2022 materially impacted our operations. We aim to build and operate energy efficient facilities, but such facilities may not be able to deliver sufficient power to meet the growing needs of our business. The cost of power at our facilities is dependent on our ability to perform under the terms in the power contracts we are a party to, which we may be unable to do successfully. Pursuant to power contracts that require curtailment, if we fail to curtail our power usage when called upon or fail to satisfy certain eligibility requirements for monthly bill credits, our power costs would increase. Further, governments and government regulators may potentially seek to restrict or prohibit the ability of electricity 17 Table of Contents suppliers to provide electricity to our facilities in times of electricity shortage or otherwise. To that end, public sentiment regarding electrical power generation, usage and storage, high volume electrical use and climate change, may limit our access to electrical power, decrease available facility sites, and increase our costs and limit the demand for our HPC colocation services. Any system downtime resulting from disruptions, curtailments, insufficient power resources or power outages could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our HPC operations run on back-up generators in the event of a power outage or curtailment that may not be sufficient to support our operations for the magnitude or duration of the power outage or curtailment. Increased power costs and limited availability and curtailment of power resources will reduce our revenue and have a material and adverse effect on our cost of revenue and results of operations. If we fail to accurately estimate the factors upon which we base our contract pricing, we may generate less profit than expected or incur losses on those contracts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our hosting contracts are generally priced on the basis of estimated power consumption by our clients and the other costs of providing electrical power and other services. Our ability to earn a profit on such contracts requires that we accurately estimate the costs involved and outcomes likely to be achieved, provide services efficiently and assess the probability of generating sufficient hosting capacity within budgeted costs and expenses during the contracted time period. In addition, we may not be able to obtain all expected benefits, including tax abatements or government incentives offered in opportunity zones. The inability to accurately estimate the factors upon which we base our contract pricing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure in our critical systems, facilities or services we provide could lead to disruptions in our and our customers businesses and could harm our reputation and result in financial penalty and legal liabilities, which would reduce our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The critical systems of the facilities we operate and the services we provide are subject to failure. Any failure in the critical systems of any facility we operate or services that we provide, including a breakdown in critical plant, equipment or services, routers, switches or other equipment, power supplies or network connectivity, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions impacting our operations as well as equipment damage, which could significantly disrupt our business operations and the operations of our customers, harm our reputation and reduce our revenue. Any failure or downtime in one of the facilities that we operate impact mining rewards generated by us and reduce the profitability of our customers. The total destruction or severe impairment of any of the facilities we operate could result in significant downtime of our operations and services and loss of customer data. Since our ability to generate revenue depends on our ability to provide highly reliable service, even minor interruptions in our operations could harm our reputation and negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Our ability to generate revenue and the services we provide are subject to failures resulting from numerous factors, including: power loss, curtailment and disruption; equipment failure; human error or accidents; theft, sabotage and vandalism; failure by us or our suppliers to provide adequate service or maintain our equipment; network connectivity downtime and fiber cuts; service interruptions resulting from server relocation; security breaches of our infrastructure; improper building maintenance; physical, electronic and cybersecurity breaches; animal incursions; fire, earthquake, hurricane, tornado, flood and other natural disasters; extreme temperatures; water damage; 18 Table of Contents public health emergencies; riots, protests and disorder; and terrorism, war and hostilities. Moreover, service interruptions and equipment failures may expose us to potential legal liability. As our services are critical to our customers business operations, any disruption in our services could result in lost profits of or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. Our customer contracts typically contain provisions limiting our liability for breach of such agreements, a court may not enforce any contractual limitations on our liability in the event that one of our customers brings a lawsuit against us as the result of a service interruption that they may ascribe to us. The outcome of any such lawsuit would depend on the specific facts of the case and any legal and policy considerations that we may not be able to mitigate. In such cases, we could be liable for substantial damage awards, which would as a result have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be vulnerable to physical security breaches, which could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A party who is able to compromise the physical security measures protecting our facilities could cause interruptions or malfunctions in our operations and misappropriate our property or the property of our customers. As we provide assurances to our customers that we provide the highest level of security, such a compromise could be particularly harmful to our brand and reputation. We may be required to expend significant capital and resources to protect against such threats or to alleviate problems caused by breaches in security. As techniques used to breach security change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may not be able to implement new security measures in a timely manner or, if and when implemented, we may not be certain whether these measures could be circumvented. Any breaches that may occur could expose us to increased risk of lawsuits, regulatory penalties, loss of existing or potential customers, harm to our reputation and increases in our security costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Physical risks and regulatory changes relating to climate change may impact our costs, our access to materials and resources and demand for cryptocurrencies, potentially adversely impacting our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. The physical risks of climate change may impact the availability and cost of materials and natural resources, sources and supply of energy, demand for bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, and could increase our insurance and other operating costs, including, potentially, to repair damage incurred as a result of extreme weather events or to renovate or retrofit facilities to better withstand extreme weather events. In addition, efforts are being made by the United States and foreign governments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly those from coal combustion power plants, some of which plants we may rely upon for power. The added cost of any environmental taxes, charges, assessments or penalties levied on such power plants could be passed on to us, increasing the cost to run our facilities. If our operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change, or if environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements on our operations, our business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position could be adversely impacted. We may be exposed to cybersecurity threats and breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Threats to network and data security are increasingly diverse and sophisticated. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have been a prevalent concern in our businesses. Despite our efforts and processes to prevent these, our computer servers and computer systems may be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, including denial-of-service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, employee theft or misuse and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer servers and computer systems. The preventive actions we take to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology and networks may be insufficient to repel a major cyber-attack in the future. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our network, in unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or in a loss of our digital assets, it could cause significant damage to our reputation, lead to claims against us and ultimately have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may be required to incur significant costs to protect against damage caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. 19 Table of Contents In addition, any assertions of alleged security breaches or systems failure made against us, whether true or not, could harm our reputation, cause us to incur substantial legal fees and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our digital infrastructure could be breached despite our security procedures. Our operational digital infrastructure may be breached due to the actions of outside parties, error or malfeasance of one of our employees, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our digital asset accounts, private keys, data or digital assets. Although we implement a number of security procedures with various elements such as two-factor verification, segregated accounts and secured facilities and plan to implement the maintenance of data on computers and/or storage media that is not directly connected to, or accessible from, the internet and/or networked with other computers (cold storage), to minimize the risk of loss, damage and theft, and we update such security procedures whenever reasonably practicable, we may be unable to prevent such loss, damage or theft, whether caused intentionally, accidentally or by an act of God. Additionally, outside parties may attempt to fraudulently induce our employees to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to our infrastructure. As the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, or may be designed to remain dormant until a predetermined event, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. As technological change occurs, the security threats to our bitcoin will likely adapt and previously unknown threats may emerge. Our ability to adopt technology in response to changing security needs or trends may pose a challenge to the safekeeping of our digital assets. To the extent we are unable to identify and mitigate or stop new security threats, our digital assets may be subject to theft, loss, destruction or other attack. Any of these events could expose us to liability, damage our reputation, reduce customer confidence in our services and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we believe that as our assets grow, we may become a more appealing target for security threats, such as hackers and malware. If an actual or perceived breach of our digital asset accounts occurs, the market perception of our effectiveness could be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to keep pace with rapid technological changes that could make our current or future technologies less competitive or obsolete. Rapid, significant, and disruptive technological changes continue to impact our industry. The infrastructure at our facilities may become less marketable due to demand for new processes and technologies, including, without limitation: (i) new processes to deliver power to, or eliminate heat from, computer systems; (ii) customer demand for additional redundancy capacity; (iii) new technology that permits higher levels of critical load and heat removal than our facilities are currently designed to provide; (iv) an inability of the power supply to support new, updated or upgraded technology; and (v) a shift to more power-efficient transaction validation protocols. In addition, the systems that connect our facilities to the internet and other external networks may become insufficient, including with respect to latency, reliability and diversity of connectivity. Even if we succeed in adapting to new processes and technologies, our use of such new processes or technology may not have a positive impact on our financial performance. For example, we could incur substantial additional costs if we needed to materially improve our hosting center infrastructure through the implementation of new systems or new server technologies that require levels of critical load and heat removal that our facilities are not currently designed to provide. In addition, if one of our new offerings were competitive to our prior offerings and represented an adequate or superior alternative, customers could decide to abandon prior offerings that produce higher revenue or better margins for the new offering. Therefore, the adaptation to new processes and technologies could result in lower revenue, lower margins and/or higher costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there are significant changes to the method of validating blockchain transactions, such changes could reduce demand for digital assets like bitcoin. New digital asset transaction protocols are continuously being deployed, and existing and new protocols are in a state of constant change and development. While certain validation protocols currently employ a proof-of-work consensus algorithm, whereby transaction processors are required to expend significant amounts of electrical and computing power to solve complex mathematical problems in order to validate transactions and create new blocks in a blockchain, there may be a shift towards adopting alternative validating protocols. These protocols may include a proof-of-stake algorithm or an algorithm based on a protocol other than proof-of-work, which may decrease the reliance on computing power as an advantage to validating blocks. Our mining operations are currently designed to primarily support a proof-of-work consensus algorithm. Should the algorithm shift from a proof-of-work 20 Table of Contents validation method to a proof-of-stake method, mining would require less energy and may render any company that maintains advantages in the current climate (for example, from lower priced electricity, processing, real estate or hosting) less competitive. As a result of our efforts to optimize and improve the efficiency of our digital asset mining operations, we may be exposed to the risk in the future of losing the benefit of our capital investments and the competitive advantage we hope to gain from this as a result, and may be negatively impacted if a switch to proof-of-stake validation were to occur. Any such change to transaction validating protocols could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The further development and acceptance of cryptographic and algorithmic protocols governing transaction validation and the issuance of, and transactions in, digital assets are subject to a variety of factors that are difficult to evaluate. The slowing or stoppage of development or acceptance of blockchain networks and digital assets would have an adverse material effect on the successful development of the mining operation and value of earned digital assets. The use of digital assets to, among other things, buy and sell goods and services, is part of a new and rapidly evolving industry that employs digital assets based upon a computer-generated mathematical and/or cryptographic protocol. The future of this industry is subject to a high degree of uncertainty. The factors affecting the further development of this industry include, but are not limited to: continued worldwide growth in the adoption and use of digital assets and blockchain technologies; government and quasi-government regulation of digital assets and their use, or restrictions on or regulation of access to and operations of digital asset mining; changes in consumer demographics and public tastes and preferences; the maintenance and development of the open-source software protocols or similar digital asset systems; the availability and popularity of other forms or methods of buying and selling goods and services, or trading assets including new means of using fiat currencies; general economic conditions and the regulatory environment relating to digital assets; and negative consumer perception of digital assets, including digital assets specifically and digital assets generally. A decline in the popularity or acceptance of digital assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to obtain broad protection in the United States or internationally for all of our existing and future intellectual property and other proprietary rights, and we may not be able to obtain effective protection for our intellectual property and other proprietary rights in every country in which we operate. Protecting our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights may require significant expenditure of our financial, managerial and operational resources. Moreover, the steps that we may take to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to protect such rights or prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating such rights. Any of our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights, whether registered, unregistered, issued or unissued, may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative proceedings and/or litigation. We may be required to spend significant resources to secure, maintain, monitor and protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights. Despite our efforts, we may not be able to prevent third parties from infringing upon, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights. We may initiate claims, administrative proceedings and/or litigation against others for infringement, misappropriation or violation of our intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights to enforce and/or maintain the validity of such rights. Any such action, if initiated, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may infringe on third-party intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our commercial success depends on our ability to operate without infringing third-party intellectual property rights or other proprietary rights. For example, there may be issued patents of which we are not aware that our services or products infringe on. Also, there may be patents we believe we do not infringe on, but that we may ultimately be found to by a court of law or government 21 Table of Contents regulatory agency. Moreover, patent applications are in some cases maintained in secrecy until patents are issued. Because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications of which we are unaware that may later result in issued patents that our services or products allegedly infringe on. If a third party brings any claim against us based on third-party intellectual property rights and/or other proprietary rights, we will be required to spend significant resources to defend and challenge such claim, as well as to invalidate any such rights. Any such claim, if initiated against us, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us, and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success is dependent on the ability of our management team and our ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain other well-qualified employees, which may be more difficult, costly or time-consuming than expected. Our success depends largely on the development and execution of our business strategy by our senior management team. We cannot assure you that our management will work well together, work well with our other existing employees or successfully execute our business strategy in the near-term or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly qualified and skilled management and other employees. It is difficult to locate experienced executives in our industry. Further, competition for facility design, construction management, operations, data processing, engineering, IT, risk management and sales and marketing and other highly skilled personnel is extremely intense. We may not be able to hire and retain these personnel at compensation levels consistent with our existing compensation and salary structure at this stage in our development. We may be unable to attract and retain our senior executives and other key personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A slowdown in market and economic conditions, particularly those impacting the cloud computing, machine learning and AI industries, the demand for HPC infrastructure and services, and the blockchain industry and the blockchain hosting market, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We and our customers are affected by general business and economic conditions in the United States and globally, particularly those impacting the cloud computing, machine learning and AI industries. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, including the imposition of new tariffs affecting our or our customers products and services, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and broad trends in industry and finance, all of which are beyond our control. Macroeconomic conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the United States and the rest of the world could adversely affect our customers and vendors, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is heavily impacted by social, political, economic and other events and circumstances in the United States and in countries outside of the United States, most particularly Asian and other non-Western countries. Our business is heavily impacted by social, political, economic and other events and circumstances in the United States and in countries outside of the United States, most particularly in Asian and other non-Western countries. These events and circumstances are largely outside of our influence and control. We believe that nation states are actively mining bitcoin for their own treasuries, increasing network hash rate, reducing the Companys share of network hash rate, and thereby reducing the Companys revenue, profitability and financial results of operations. Global conflict could negatively impact the Companys business, results of operations and financial conditions. Unforeseen global events, such as the armed conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas conflict, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. These and similar conflicts, including any resulting sanctions, export controls or other restrictive actions that may be imposed by the United States and/or other countries, have created global security concerns that could result in a regional conflict and otherwise have a lasting impact on regional and global economies, any or all of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. To the extent that these conflicts have increased the global cost of energy and disrupted the demand for and price of bitcoin, it has and could continue to have an impact on our business. Sanctions, bans or other economic actions in response to conflicts could result in an increase in costs and disruptions to the Company. The extent of such items is not presently known, and any of them could negatively impact the Companys business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Changes in tariffs or import restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Much of the equipment necessary for HPC hosting and almost entirely all of the equipment necessary for digital asset mining is manufactured outside of the United States. There is currently significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and various other countries, including China, the European Union, Canada, and Mexico, with respect to trade policies, treaties, tariffs and customs duties, and taxes. For example, since 2019, the U.S. government has implemented significant changes to U.S. trade policy with respect to China. These tariffs have subjected certain digital asset mining equipment manufactured overseas to additional import duties of up to 25%. The amount of the additional tariffs and the number of products subject to them has changed numerous times based on action by the U.S. government. These tariffs have increased costs of digital asset mining equipment, and new or additional tariffs or other restrictions on the import of equipment necessary for digital asset mining could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the past, we have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and additional material weaknesses may occur in the future. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure