Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those stated above in Item 1A. under the headings Risk Factors - Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and - Risk Factors, as well as those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytics and marketing services to the commercial real estate industry in the U.S. and the U.K. based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate the leading online marketplace for commercial real estate in the U.S. based on the number of unique visitors per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors and believe that we generate more revenues than any of our competitors. We have created and compiled our standardized information, analytics and marketing platform where members of the commercial real estate and related business community can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently exchanging accurate and standardized commercial real estate information. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, tenant information, information about properties for sale, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. Our subsidiary, LoopNet, Inc. (LoopNet), operates an online marketplace that enables property owners, landlords, and commercial real estate agents working on their behalf to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants also use LoopNet's online marketplace to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. We also provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our Property and Portfolio Research, Inc. (PPR) service offerings, portfolio and debt management and reporting capabilities through our Resolve Technology, Inc. (Resolve Technology) service offerings, and real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our Virtual Premise, Inc. (Virtual Premise) service offerings. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, industrial, retail, land, mixed-use, hospitality and multifamily. Expansion and Development We expect to continue to develop and distribute new services, improve existing services, integrate products and services, cross-sell existing services, and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. We are also committed to supporting and improving our existing core information, analytic and marketing services. Examples of new tools and services that we are currently developing and expect to introduce to customers in the near future include upgrades to our suite of online service offerings CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant and CoStar COMPS Professional. These upgrades are expected to include improvements to the search functionality as well as improvements to the reporting capabilities of the system. We also plan improvements to property type specific searches included as part of CoStar Property Professional. We continue to improve our mobile application, CoStarGo , which was launched in the U.S. on August 15, 2011 and introduced in the U.K. on November 5, 2012. CoStarGo is our iPad application that integrates and provides mobile access to subscribers of our comprehensive property, tenant and comparable sales information from our suite of online service offerings - CoStar Property Professional , CoStar Tenant and CoStar COMPS Professional . Planned improvements for CoStarGo include a multifamily search function and enhanced analytic capabilities. 32 We are also integrating, developing and cross-selling the services offered by the companies we acquired most recently, including LoopNet, Virtual Premise, Resolve Technology and PPR. Our sales and marketing efforts are and will continue to be focused on cross-selling and marketing our services. After the acquisition of LoopNet, we launched a sales and marketing campaign directed at cross-selling CoStar's information services to LoopNet customers and LoopNet's marketing services to CoStar customers. We have incurred increased expenses associated with this marketing and sales campaign and expect to continue to incur additional expenses for the campaign during the first quarter of 2013. In some cases, when integrating and coordinating our services and assessing industry needs, we may decide to combine, shift focus from, de-emphasize, phase out, or eliminate a service that overlaps or is redundant with other services we offer. We anticipate that these initiatives will position the company for revenue growth in 2013 and beyond. Our investments in LoopNet, Virtual Premise, Resolve Technology, and PPR have increased, and may continue to increase; however our revenues have also increased as a result of these acquisitions, due to revenue from the acquired businesses, as well as our ability to take advantage of cross-selling opportunities among the customers of CoStar and the acquired companies. In addition, we expect to continue our efforts to integrate the combined capabilities of CoStar's property and market-level information and PPR's analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technology's real estate investment software expertise. We plan to continue efforts to integrate CoStar's business with Virtual Premise's real estate and lease management solutions. These integration efforts include providing additional tools that make our research and analytics even more valuable to subscribers. In order to implement these initiatives, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional costs. We also expect to continue to offer our core products and services individually. In addition, we intend to continue to upgrade the platform of services and expand the coverage of our service offerings within our International segment and to integrate our international operations more fully with those in the U.S. In furtherance of those initiatives, in the U.K. during the fourth quarter of 2012, we introduced a consistent international platform of service offerings, consisting of CoStarGo, our iPad application, CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant. We believe the product launch was well received and a significant marketing and sales effort is currently underway. Previously, as part of our integration efforts, in 2007, we introduced the CoStar Group as the brand encompassing our international operations, and in early 2010, we launched Showcase, our internet marketing service that provides commercial real estate professionals high quality internet lead generation, in the U.K. Additionally, we have upgraded our back-end research operations, fulfillment and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems to support these new U.K. services. In order to implement these services in the U.K., we incurred increased development costs through 2012. We expect that development expenses incurred by the International segment will decrease in 2013. In late 2013 or early 2014, we expect to expand further internationally by offering services in Toronto, Canada. We believe that our continued investments in U.S. and international products, internationalization of our U.S. products and integration efforts have created and will continue to build upon a platform for long-term revenue growth. We expect these investments to result in further penetration of our international subscription-based information services and the successful cross-selling of our services to customers in existing markets due to the release of our upgraded international platform and expansion of coverage of our international service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Therefore, while we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings throughout 2013 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, it is possible that any new investments or changes to our service offerings could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. LoopNet Acquisition On April 30, 2012, we completed the acquisition of LoopNet, which is included within our U.S. operating segment. The acquisition combines the research capabilities of CoStar with the marketing solutions offered by LoopNet. We expect the acquisition will create efficiencies in operations and provide greater tools for the combined company's customers. To acquire LoopNet, we paid stock and cash consideration with an aggregate value of approximately $883.4 million as of the closing date. We funded the cash portion of the consideration payable to LoopNet stockholders in the merger through a combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million from an equity offering we completed in June 2011 and the proceeds of a $175.0 million term loan facility available to us under a credit agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement), dated February 16, 2012, by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc. (CoStar Realty), as co-borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (J.P. Morgan Bank), as administrative agent, and the other lenders thereto. 33 The LoopNet transaction was subject to customary closing conditions, including expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976 (the HSR Act). On April 26, 2012, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) accepted a consent order in connection with the LoopNet merger previously agreed to by LoopNet and CoStar. The consent order was subject to a 30-day public comment period, and on August 29, 2012, the FTC issued its final acceptance of the consent order. The consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at www.ftc.gov, requires us to maintain certain business practices that the FTC believes will promote competition. For example, the consent order requires us to maintain our customary practice of selling our products separately and on a market-by-market basis. It also requires us to license our products to customers who have bought our competitors' products on a non-discriminatory basis, which we have always done in the past. In addition, we are required to maintain our customary licensing practices with respect to the length of our contracts, to allow customers with multi-year contracts to cancel with one year's advance notice, and to agree to reduce the cost of any litigation with customers by offering to arbitrate certain disputes. We plan to continue to assess any plans for additional investments in our business in the foreseeable future. At this time, as discussed above, we expect to continue to develop and distribute new services within our current platform. While we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, providing substantial cash flow for our business, the costs associated with our merger with LoopNet and the integration of our two businesses has reduced our profitability and caused us to generate losses in the second quarter of 2012. Further, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow, which may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. Market Conditions We continue to see clear signs of improving conditions in the commercial real estate industry, including falling vacancy rates and positive net absorption in the four main types of property that we track (office, industrial, retail and apartments). However, the extent and duration of continued improvement in the economy and the commercial real estate industry is unknown. Further, the current economic recovery has been slower than past economic recoveries. Job growth, in particular, has recovered more slowly than in past economic recoveries. Improvements in the commercial real estate industry are largely dependent upon employment trends, which drive demand for real estate space. Continuing risks related to lower than expected job growth, government fiscal challenges and uncertainty over U.S. and global economic issues may impede the ability and willingness of clients to purchase services from us or result in reductions of services purchased. In some cases, the business operations of some of our clients continue to be negatively affected by challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and the world, resulting at times in business consolidations and, in some circumstances, business failure. If cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at reduced rates. We compete against many other commercial real estate information, analytics and marketing service providers for business. If customers choose to cancel our services for cost-cutting or other reasons, our revenue could decline. Financial Matters Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. We also believe it is important to evaluate our operating results before and after the effect of currency changes, as it may provide a more accurate comparison of our results of operations over historical periods. Currency exchange rate volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and period-to-period comparisons of our consolidated operations. We currently issue stock options and/or restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The amount and timing of the compensation expense that we record depends on the amount and types of equity grants made. We plan to continue the use of stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock option grants that typically will require us to record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. 34 In February 2012, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors approved grants of restricted common stock to our executive officers that vest based on the achievement of CoStar performance conditions. These awards support the Committees goals of aligning executive incentives with long-term stockholder value and ensuring that executive officers have a continuing stake in the long-term success of CoStar. In May and December of 2012, we granted additional shares of restricted common stock that vest based on the achievement of CoStar performance conditions to other employees. These shares of performance-based restricted common stock vest upon our achievement of $90.0 million of cumulative EBITDA over a period of four consecutive calendar quarters, and are subject to forfeiture in the event the foregoing performance condition is not met by March 31, 2017. We granted a total of 399,413 shares of performance-based restricted common stock during the year ended December 31, 2012 , representing a total estimated unrecognized stock-based compensation expense of approximately $24.0 million . All of the awards were made under the CoStar Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and pursuant to our standard form of restricted stock grant agreement. The number of shares granted was based on the fair market value of CoStars common stock on the grant date. As of December 31, 2012, we determined that it was not probable that the performance condition would be met by the March 31, 2017 forfeiture date and therefore, we recorded no expense related to the performance-based restricted common stock grants during 2012 . However, we reassess the probability of the achievement of the performance condition at the end of each reporting period or more frequently based upon the occurrence of events that may change the probability as to whether or not the performance condition would be met. If we determine at a future date that achievement of the performance condition is probable, we will record stock-based compensation expense related to the performance-based restricted common stock grants over the implied service period. Property Developments On February 5, 2010, we took advantage of favorable market conditions and purchased an office building in downtown Washington, DC for $41.25 million for use as our new headquarters and have since relocated to this location (the DC Office Building). The lease for our previous headquarters in Bethesda, MD expired on October 15, 2010; therefore, we incurred overlapping occupancy costs through the end of the Bethesda lease term as we transitioned to our new headquarters. We were able to create value through our occupancy of the DC Office Building and on February 18, 2011 sold the building for aggregate consideration of $101.0 million, $15.0 million of which was designated to fund additional build-out and planned improvements at the building. Approximately $12.5 million of the $15.0 million additional build-out is recorded as a leasehold improvement in property and equipment. As part of the sale, we entered into a long-term lease with the buyer to lease back approximately 88% of the office space, where our corporate headquarters is expected to remain. During the third quarter of 2011, we incurred approximately $1.5 million of restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office with our Columbia, Maryland and Washington, DC offices. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we incurred approximately $80,000 of restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of our San Francisco, California office with our LoopNet office in San Francisco, California. As in the past, we expect to continue to identify new facilities and consolidate existing facilities to better accommodate the changing demands of our business and employees. As a result, we may incur additional lease restructuring charges for the abandonment of certain lease space and the impairment of leasehold improvements. Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional, and FOCUS services. CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and through our mobile application, CoStarGo, and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. Additionally we introduced CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional, CoStar Tenant and CoStarGo in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2012. Our subscription-based services consist primarily of similar services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the clients business focus, geography and the number of services to which a client subscribes. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. 35 We recognize this revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 , our contract renewal rate for annual subscription-based services was approximately 93% and 94% , respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate for those services was approximately 7% and 6% , respectively, for the same time periods. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, further reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently actively trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of December 31, 2012 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of contractual cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents our estimate of the yield expected by a market participant from the ARS investments. The weighted average discount rate used in the discounted cash flow model based on the fair values of the ARS was approximately 4.9% and 5.1% as of December 31, 2011 and 2012 , respectively. Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of December 31, 2012 , we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $1.9 million . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. 36 We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of December 31, 2012 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimated the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of our stock price. For equity instruments that vest based on performance, we assess the probability of the achievement of the performance conditions at the end of each reporting period, or more frequently based upon the occurrence of events that may change the probability as to whether or not the performance condition would be met. If our initial estimates of the achievement of the performance conditions change, the related stock-based compensation expense and timing of recognition may fluctuate from period to period based on those estimates. If the performance conditions are not met, no stock-based compensation expense will be recognized and any previously recognized stock-based compensation expense will be reversed. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows of the carrying amounts of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, U.S. and International, as our reporting units under Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. 37 To determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, growth rate and future financial performance. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about the growth rate and future financial performance of a reporting unit are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows. Our assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the International reporting unit reflect our expectation that in 2013 the expenses for our International reporting unit will decrease upon the completion of our initiatives to upgrade the platform of services and expand the coverage of our service offerings within our International segment by the end of 2012. Additionally, our assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the International reporting unit reflect our expectation that revenues will increase as a result of further penetration of our international subscription-based information services and the successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets due to the release of our upgraded international platform and expansion of coverage of our international service offerings. These assumptions are subject to change from period to period and could be adversely impacted by the uncertainty surrounding global market conditions, commercial real estate conditions, and the competitive environment in which we operate. Changes in these or other factors could negatively affect our reporting units' fair value and potentially result in impairment charges. Such impairment charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We measure impairment loss based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2012, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2012 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. To determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the quantitative impairment test similar to the test performed on goodwill discussed above. As of October 1, 2012, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets substantially exceeded the carrying value. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2012 that would indicate that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset may not be recoverable. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations. 38 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share (also referred to as "non-GAAP EPS"). EBITDA is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 25 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytics and marketing services, which has included acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs and restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. 39 Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base and the diminishing value of any acquired trade names. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of interest expense we incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense (benefit) may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense (benefit) to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, net, and income tax expense (benefit) as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquisition. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the overlapping rent and building carrying costs, legal costs and other related costs incurred to relocate our headquarters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing charges related to our operating cost structure. 40 The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are purchase amortization and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA along with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income. We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2010 and 2011 , we assumed a 40% tax rate, and in 2012 , we assumed a 38% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2011 2012 Net income $ 13,289 $ 14,656 $ 9,915 Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 1,471 1,353 8,634 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 2,305 2,237 13,607 Depreciation and other amortization 9,873 9,262 10,511 Interest income (735 ) (798 ) (526 ) Interest expense 4,832 Income tax expense, net 10,221 7,913 13,219 EBITDA $ 36,424 $ 34,623 $ 60,192 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 39,269 $ 25,685 $ 86,126 Investing activities $ (40,504 ) $ 58,366 $ (640,398 ) Financing activities $ 2,042 $ 254,780 $ 164,941 41 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table provides our selected consolidated results of operations for the indicated periods (in thousands of dollars and as a percentage of total revenue): Year Ended December 31, 2010 2011 2012 Revenues $ 226,260 100.0 % $ 251,738 100.0 % $ 349,936 100.0 % Cost of revenues 83,599 36.9 88,167 35.0 114,866 32.8 Gross margin 142,661 63.1 163,571 65.0 235,070 67.2 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 52,455 23.2 61,164 24.3 84,113 24.0 Software development 17,350 7.7 20,037 8.0 32,756 9.4 General and administrative 47,776 21.1 58,362 23.2 77,154 22.0 Purchase amortization 2,305 1.0 2,237 0.9 13,607 3.9 Total operating expenses 119,886 53.0 141,800 56.4 207,630 59.3 Income from operations 22,775 10.1 21,771 8.6 27,440 7.9 Interest and other income 735 0.3 798 0.3 526 0.2 Interest and other expense (4,832 ) (1.4 ) Income before income taxes 23,510 10.4 22,569 8.9 23,134 6.7 Income tax expense, net 10,221 4.5 7,913 3.1 13,219 3.9 Net income $ 13,289 5.9 % $ 14,656 5.8 % $ 9,915 2.8 % Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2012 and Year Ended December 31, 2011 Revenues . Revenues increased to $349.9 million in 2012 , from $251.7 million in 2011 . The increase in revenues of approximately $98.2 million is primarily attributable to additional revenue of approximately $60.0 million from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $235.1 million in 2012 , from $163.6 million in 2011 . The gross margin percentage increased to 67.2% in 2012 , from 65.0% in 2011 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was principally due to a $98.2 million increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $114.9 million in 2012 , from $88.2 million in 2011 . The increase in cost of revenues was principally due to the additional cost of revenues from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $84.1 million in 2012 , from $61.2 million in 2011 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 24.0% in 2012 , from 24.3% in 2011 . The increase in the amount of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the additional selling and marketing expenses from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $32.8 million in 2012 , from $20.0 million in 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 9.4% in 2012 , from 8.0% in 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expense was primarily due to the additional software development expenses from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $77.2 million in 2012 , from $58.4 million in 2011 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 22.0% in 2012 , from 23.2% in 2011 . The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was principally due to the additional general and administrative expenses from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization increased to approximately $13.6 million in 2012 , from $2.2 million in 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenue to 3.9% in 2012 , compared to 0.9% in 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was due to additional purchase amortization expenses from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. 42 Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income decreased to approximately $526,000 in 2012 compared to approximately $798,000 in 2011 . The decrease was primarily due to our lower cash and cash equivalent balance in 2012 resulting from the net cash paid for our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense increased to approximately $4.8 million in 2012 compared to $0 in 2011 . The increase was due to the interest expense incurred in 2012 for the term loan facility used to fund a portion of the merger consideration and transaction costs for the LoopNet acquisition. Income Tax Expense, Net. Income tax expense, net increased to $13.2 million in 2012 , from $7.9 million in 2011 . This increase was primarily due to the impact of costs related to the LoopNet acquisition that are not deductible for tax purposes. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2012 and Year Ended December 31, 2011 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being the U.S. and International, which includes the U.K. and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and through our mobile application, CoStarGo, and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. U.S. revenues increased to $330.8 million from $233.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 respectively. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to additional revenue of approximately $60.0 million from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet, as well as further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. Additionally, we introduced CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional, CoStar Tenant and CoStarGo in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2012. International revenues increased to $19.1 million from $18.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services. Intersegment revenue increased to approximately $1.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 , compared to approximately $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 . Intersegment revenue is attributable to services performed for the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, PPR, by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount the Company believes approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA increased to $70.2 million from $38.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The increase in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to an increase in revenues in 2012 compared to 2011 . International EBITDA decreased to a higher loss of $10.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 from a $3.5 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2011 . This higher loss was primarily due to increased corporate allocation in 2012 compared to 2011 . International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $5.3 million and $800,000 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. The corporate allocation for the year ended December 31, 2012 consists primarily of development costs incurred for services of U.S. employees to upgrade the international platform of services and expand the coverage of service offerings within the International reporting unit. Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2011 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Revenues . Revenues increased to $251.7 million in 2011, from $226.3 million in 2010. The increase in revenues of approximately $25.4 million is primarily attributable to further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $163.6 million in 2011, from $142.7 million in 2010. The gross margin percentage increased to 65.0% in 2011, from 63.1% in 2010. The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was principally due to a $25.4 million increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $88.2 million in 2011, from $83.6 million in 2010. The increase in cost of revenues was principally due to an increase in research personnel costs. 43 Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $61.2 million in 2011, from $52.5 million in 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 24.3% in 2011, from 23.2% in 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to an increase in sales personnel costs of approximately $4.9 million and the marketing effort related to the launch of CoStarGo of approximately $3.4 million. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $20.0 million in 2011, from $17.4 million in 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 8.0% in 2011, from 7.7% in 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expense was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support new development efforts. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $58.4 million in 2011, from $47.8 million in 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.2% in 2011, from 21.1% in 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was principally due to the incurrence of approximately $14.2 million in acquisition-related costs in connection with the pending LoopNet acquisition, and approximately $1.5 million in lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office. These increases are partially offset by the deferred consideration adjustment of approximately $1.2 million in September 2011 related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Additionally, during 2010 we incurred expenses that did not recur in 2011, including the $2.0 million accrual of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited in June 2010, approximately $800,000 accrued in anticipation of the settlement of the litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California in June 2010, as well as the lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our Boston, Massachusetts office of approximately $1.3 million in September 2010. Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization remained relatively constant at approximately $2.2 million in 2011, from $2.3 million in 2010. Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income remained relatively constant at approximately $798,000 in 2011, compared to approximately $735,000 in 2010. Income Tax Expense, Net. Income tax expense, net decreased to $7.9 million in 2011, from $10.2 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to tax benefits resulting from the move of our headquarters to Washington, DC. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2011 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Segment Revenues . U.S. revenues increased to $233.4 million from $208.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $18.4 million from $17.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase was primarily due to foreign currency fluctuations. Intersegment revenue remained relatively constant at $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Intersegment revenue is attributable to services performed for the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, PPR, by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount the Company believes approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA decreased to $38.1 million from $39.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to approximately $14.2 million in acquisition-related costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of the pending LoopNet acquisition, approximately $1.5 million in lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office, approximately $3.4 million due to the marketing effort related to the launch of CoStarGo as well as increased personnel costs of approximately $11.0 million. These decreases in U.S. EBITDA are partially offset by an approximate $24.9 million increase in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 from the year ended December 31, 2010 and the deferred consideration adjustment of approximately $1.2 million in September 2011 related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Additionally, during 2010 we incurred expenses that did not recur in 2011, including approximately $800,000 accrued in anticipation of the settlement of the litigation in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California in June 2010 as well as the lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our Boston, Massachusetts office of approximately $1.3 million in September 2010. International EBITDA decreased to a higher loss of $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from a $3.2 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2010. This higher loss was primarily due to increased personnel costs of approximately $1.5 million and other expenses of approximately $800,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, partially offset by approximately $2.0 million in expense in connection with the settlement of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited in 2010 that did not recur in 2011. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $800,000 and $400,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. 44 Consolidated Quarterly Results of Operations The following tables summarize our consolidated results of operations on a quarterly basis for the indicated periods (in thousands, except per share amounts, and as a percentage of total revenues). Certain previously reported amounts in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations have been reclassified to conform to our current presentation: 2011 2012 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues $ 59,618 $ 62,127 $ 63,829 $ 66,164 $ 68,629 $ 85,223 $ 96,001 $ 100,083 Cost of revenues 22,566 22,412 21,175 22,014 24,334 28,172 30,882 31,478 Gross margin 37,052 39,715 42,654 44,150 44,295 57,051 65,119 68,605 Operating expenses 29,956 35,806 39,650 36,388 35,693 57,064 56,173 58,700 Income from operations 7,096 3,909 3,004 7,762 8,602 (13 ) 8,946 9,905 Interest and other income 202 178 194 224 250 131 59 86 Interest and other expense (1,200 ) (1,822 ) (1,810 ) Income before income taxes 7,298 4,087 3,198 7,986 8,852 (1,082 ) 7,183 8,181 Income tax expense, net 2,766 1,450 887 2,810 3,720 5,628 404 3,467 Net income $ 4,532 $ 2,637 $ 2,311 $ 5,176 $ 5,132 $ (6,710 ) $ 6,779 $ 4,714 Net income per share basic $ 0.22 $ 0.12 $ 0.09 $ 0.21 $ 0.20 $ (0.25 ) $ 0.25 $ 0.17 Net income per share diluted $ 0.22 $ 0.12 $ 0.09 $ 0.20 $ 0.20 $ (0.25 ) $ 0.24 $ 0.17 2011 2012 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 37.9 36.1 33.2 33.3 35.5 33.1 32.2 31.5 Gross margin 62.1 63.9 66.8 66.7 64.5 66.9 67.8 68.5 Operating expenses 50.2 57.6 62.1 55.0 52.0 67.0 58.5 58.7 Income from operations 11.9 6.3 4.7 11.7 12.5 (0.1 ) 9.3 9.8 Interest and other income 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.1 0.1 Interest and other expense (1.4 ) (1.9 ) (1.8 ) Income before income taxes 12.2 6.6 5.0 12.0 12.9 (1.3 ) 7.5 8.1 Income tax expense, net 4.6 2.4 1.4 4.2 5.4 6.6 0.4 3.4 Net income 7.6 % 4.2 % 3.6 % 7.8 % 7.5 % (7.9 )% 7.1 % 4.7 % Recent Acquisitions Virtual Premise . On October 25, 2011, we acquired Virtual Premise, a SaaS provider of real estate and lease management solutions. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement, we paid approximately $17.2 million in cash, approximately 80% of which was paid on the closing date and the remaining 20% of which was held in escrow for approximately 270 days after the closing date. The funds held in escrow were subject to the prior use of such funds to satisfy any post-closing net working capital adjustments or indemnification claims made prior to the date the funds were released. The purchase price was reduced by approximately $200,000 after taking into account post-closing purchase price adjustments and this amount was paid to us from the escrow fund on March 1, 2012. The remaining escrowed funds were released to the former Virtual Premise stockholders on July 23, 2012. LoopNet . On April 30, 2012, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of LoopNet pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 27, 2011, as amended May 20, 2011 (the Merger Agreement). We paid approximately $746.4 million in cash and approximately $137.1 million in equity, for a total consideration of $883.4 million . 45 Accounting Treatment . We have applied the acquisition method to account for the Virtual Premise and LoopNet transactions which requires that, among other things, assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their fair values as of the acquisition date. The purchase price was allocated to trade names, customer base, database technology, goodwill and various other asset and liability accounts. The acquired trade names recorded in connection with the Virtual Premise acquisition are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. The acquired trade names recorded in connection with the LoopNet acquisition have an indefinite estimated useful life and are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment tests. The acquired customer base for the acquisitions, which consists of one distinct intangible asset for each acquisition and is composed of acquired customer contracts and the related customer relationships, is being amortized on an accelerated basis related to the expected economic benefit of the intangible asset over the estimated useful life. The acquired database technology for the acquisitions is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life. Goodwill for these acquisitions is not amortized, but is subject to annual impairment tests. The results of operations of Virtual Premise and LoopNet have been consolidated with those of the Company since the date of the acquisition. The results of operations of Virtual Premise are not considered material to our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, pro forma financial information has not been presented for the Virtual Premise acquisition. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the Virtual Premise and LoopNet acquisitions. The purchase accounting for the LoopNet acquisition is preliminary and is subject to change. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and debt from our term loan and revolving credit facility. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $156.1 million at December 31, 2012 compared to $548.8 million at December 31, 2011 . The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the year ended December 31, 2012 was primarily due to the net cash paid for our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Changes in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises, purchases and sales of short-term investments and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $86.1 million compared to $25.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 . The $60.4 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to an increase of approximately $55.0 million from net income plus non-cash items primarily due to a change in deferred taxes associated with our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet as well as the amortization of certain intangible assets of LoopNet. Additionally, the increase in net cash provided by operating activities is also due to the approximately $5.4 million net increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities due to differences in timing of collection of receipts and payments of disbursements. Net cash used in investing activities changed by approximately $698.8 million . The $640.4 million cash used in investing activities in 2012 was primarily due to $640.9 million of cash used for the acquisition of LoopNet on April 30, 2012 and purchases of property and equipment of approximately $14.8 million , partially offset by the proceeds from the sale and settlements of investments of approximately $15.4 million . Proceeds from the sale and settlements of investments included approximately $4.2 million in proceeds for the sale of LoopNet's minority interest in Xceligent. Additionally, proceeds from the sale and settlements of investments included $4.2 million in proceeds from the settlement of ARS. The $58.4 million cash provided by investing activities for the for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to cash provided from the sale of our headquarters in Washington, DC of approximately $83.6 million which occurred in February 2011 and did not recur in 2012, partially offset by $15.1 million of cash used for the acquisition of Virtual Premise on October 25, 2011 and purchases of property and equipment of approximately $15.0 million . Net cash provided by financing activities was $164.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 , compared to $254.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 . This $89.9 million decrease in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to the equity offering completed in June 2011 which did not recur in 2012, partially offset by the proceeds of $175.0 million received from the term loan facility in April 2012 less payments of debt and debt issuance costs associated with the debt which did not occur in 2011. 46 Contractual Obligations . The following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2012 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Total 2013 2014-2015 2016-2017 2018 and thereafter Operating leases $ 131,589 $ 14,907 $ 24,596 $ 21,706 $ 70,380 Long-term debt obligations (1) 170,625 17,500 56,875 96,250 Purchase obligations (2) 11,084 8,628 2,456 Total contractual principal cash obligations $ 313,298 $ 41,035 $ 83,927 $ 117,956 $ 70,380 (1) Long-term debt obligations include scheduled principal payments and exclude interest payments, which are based on a variable rate of interest as defined in the Credit Agreement. (2) Amounts do not include (i) contracts with terms of twelve months or less, or (ii) multi-year contracts that may be terminated by a third party or us. Amounts do not include unrecognized tax benefits of $2.8 million due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. During 2012 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $14.8 million . We expect to make aggregate capital expenditures in 2013 of approximately $20.0 million to $25.0 million, primarily related to the build out of leased office space. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. On October 25, 2011, we acquired Virtual Premise, a Software as a Service (SaaS) provider of real estate and lease management solutions located in Atlanta, Georgia. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement, we paid approximately $17.2 million in cash, approximately 80% of which was paid on the closing date and the remaining 20% of which was held in escrow for approximately 270 days after the closing date. The funds held in escrow were subject to the prior use of such funds to satisfy any post-closing net working capital adjustments or indemnification claims made prior to the date the funds were released. The purchase price was reduced by approximately $200,000 after taking into account post-closing purchase price adjustments and this amount was paid to us from the escrow fund on March 1, 2012. The remaining escrowed funds were released to the former Virtual Premise stockholders on July 23, 2012. On April 30, 2012, we acquired LoopNet pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Prior to completion of the LoopNet acquisition on April 26, 2012 the FTC accepted a consent order in connection with the LoopNet merger previously agreed to by CoStar and LoopNet. The consent order was subject to a 30-day public comment period, and on August 29, 2012, the FTC issued its final acceptance of the consent order. The consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at www.ftc.gov, requires, among other things, that CoStar and LoopNet divest LoopNet's minority interest in Xceligent. On March 28, 2012, CoStar and LoopNet entered into a Purchase Agreement to sell LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMGI. The parties closed the sale of LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMGI on May 3, 2012. We received $4.2 million in proceeds from the sale, which reflected the fair value of the investment at the time of sale and did not result in any gain on the sale of the investment. We funded the cash portion of the consideration payable to LoopNet stockholders in the merger through a combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million from an equity offering we completed in June 2011, and $175.0 million in proceeds from a term loan facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated February 16, 2012, by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty, as co-borrower, J.P. Morgan Bank, as administrative agent, and the other lenders thereto. We made principal payments of approximately $4.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 . Maturities of our borrowings under the Credit Agreement for each of the next five years as of December 31, 2012 are $17.5 million , $24.1 million , $32.8 million , $61.2 million and $35.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 to 2017, respectively. 47 The Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a Debt Service Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of at least 1.5 to 1.0 and a Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) that does not exceed 3.25 to 1.00 during the first two full fiscal quarters after the closing date, 3.00 to 1.00 during the third and fourth full fiscal quarters after the closing date, 2.75 to 1.00 during the period from the fifth to the eighth full fiscal quarters after the closing date and 2.50 to 1.00 thereafter. These financial covenants were effective beginning with the first full fiscal quarter commencing after the closing date which was the third quarter of 2012. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants that were effective as of April 30, 2012, including covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries (i) to incur additional indebtedness, (ii) to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any liens, (iii) to enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions, (iv) to make investments and acquisitions, (v) to make certain dispositions of assets, (vi) to make dividends, distributions and prepayments of certain indebtedness, and (vii) to enter into certain transactions with affiliates. We were in compliance with the covenants in the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2012 . Commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, the Credit Agreement requires us to make an annual prepayment of the term loan facility equal to a percentage of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to reduce the principal amount outstanding under its term loan facility. The repayment percentage is 50% when the Total Leverage Ratio exceeds 3.00 to 1.00; 25% when the Total Leverage Ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00 but equal to or less than 3.00 to 1.00; and 0% when the Total Leverage Ratio is equal to or less than 2.50 to 1.00. This repayment requirement is reduced by the amount of prior voluntary prepayments during the respective fiscal year, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement. The Excess Cash Flow payment, if required, is due within ten business days of the date on which the annual financial statements are delivered or required to be delivered to the lenders pursuant to the Credit Agreement. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 , we were not required to make an Excess Cash Flow payment. In connection with obtaining the term loan facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, we incurred approximately $11.5 million in debt issuance costs, which were capitalized and are being amortized as interest expense over the term of the Credit Agreement using the effective interest method. The debt issuance costs are comprised of approximately $9.2 million in underwriting fees and approximately $2.3 million primarily related to legal fees associated with the debt issuance. As of December 31, 2012 , no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Total interest expense for the term loan facility was approximately $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 . Interest expense included amortized debt issuance costs of approximately $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 . Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, we are required to make interest payments on the term loan facility at a variable rate of interest and during interest periods selected by us as described in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of December 31, 2012 , we had $24.4 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the FFELP of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investments below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. 48 As described in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, on January 3, 2012, LoopNet, our wholly owned subsidiary, was sued by CIVIX-DDI, LLC (Civix) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,385,622 and 6,415,291. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On February 16, 2012, LoopNet filed an answer to Civixs complaint and filed counterclaims against Civix seeking, among other things, declaratory relief that the asserted patents are invalid, not infringed, and that Civix committed inequitable conduct during the prosecution and re-examination of the asserted patents. On or about May 14, 2012, Civix filed a motion for leave to amend its complaint against LoopNet in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia seeking to add CoStar as a defendant, alleging that our products also infringe Civix's patents. We filed a motion opposing Civix's motion, and on June 21, 2012, the district court denied Civix's motion to amend its complaint. On June 21, 2012, we filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois seeking a declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity against Civix. On August 30, 2012, the Eastern District of Virginia transferred Civix's case against LoopNet to the Northern District of Illinois, where both cases are now pending. On October 29, 2012, Civix filed a separate action against LoopNet in the Northern District of Illinois alleging infringement of U.S. Patent No. 8,296,335. That case was later consolidated with Civix's original lawsuit against LoopNet. Civix amended its complaint against CoStar on November 8, 2012 to add claims under Patent No. 8,296,335 as well. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of either case involving Civix, but we intend to vigorously defend ourself against Civix's claims. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In June 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. This guidance requires changes in stockholders equity to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components followed consecutively by a second statement that should present the components of other comprehensive income, total other comprehensive income and the total of comprehensive income. This guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require changes to the consolidated statements of stockholders equity and the addition of the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. In September 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify how companies test goodwill for impairment. The guidance permits a company to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. This guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. In July 2012, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify how companies test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. The guidance permits a company to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test. This guidance is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. In February 2013, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the reporting of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. This guidance requires a company to present, either on the consolidated statements of operations or in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income, but only if the amount reclassified is required under GAAP to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. This guidance is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2012. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. 49