Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those stated above in Item 1A. under the headings Risk Factors - Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and - Risk Factors, as well as those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytics and online marketplaces to the commercial real estate industry in the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.) based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S. based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors and believe that we generate more revenues than any of our commercial real estate information competitors. We created and compiled our standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate and apartments, and the related business communities, can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. We have five flagship brands - CoStar , LoopNet , Apartments.com TM , BizBuySell and LandsofAmerica TM . Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Suite TM services. CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStarGo. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, information about properties for sale, tenant information, Internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our CoStar Portfolio Strategy and CoStar Market Analytics service offerings; portfolio and debt analysis, management and reporting capabilities through our CoStar Investment Analysis and CoStar Risk Analytics service offerings; and, real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our CoStar Real Estate Manager service offerings. Our LoopNet subscription-based online marketplace services enable commercial property owners, landlords, and real estate agents working on their behalf to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants also use LoopNet's online marketplace services to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. Apartments.com is part of our network of apartment marketing sites, which also includes ApartmentFinder.com TM and ApartmentHomeLiving.com. Our apartment marketing network of subscription-based services offers renters a searchable database of apartment listings and provides professional property management companies and landlords with an advertising destination. Through an exclusive agreement with Move, Inc., a subsidiary of News Corp., Apartments.com is also the exclusive third-party provider of apartment community listings across Moves family of websites, which include realtor.com, doorsteps.com and move.com. Our BizBuySell services, which includes BizQuest , provide an online marketplace for operating businesses for sale. Our LandsofAmerica services, which includes LandAndFarm, provide an online marketplace for rural lands for sale. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use and hospitality. 34 Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based services rather than charging fees based on actual system usage or number of paid clicks. Depending on the type of service, contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, geography, the number and types of services to which a client subscribes, the number of properties a client advertises and the prominence and placement of a client's advertised properties in the search results. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Suite TM services. CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional , CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStarGo. CoStar Suite is our primary service offering in our North America and International operating segments. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015 , our annualized net new sales of subscription-based services on annual contracts were approximately $17.3 million and $29.2 million , respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from new annual subscription-based contracts or upsales on existing annual subscription-based contracts, less write downs and cancellations, for the period reported. We recognize subscription revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014 and 2015 , our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services was approximately 92% and 90% , respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate for those services was approximately 8% and 10% , respectively, for the same time periods. The recent decrease in our contract renewal rate is related to the execution of annual contracts by many of our LoopNet customers, who historically have not signed long term agreements and typically have a lower renewal rate than the rest of our subscription-based customers. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if, among other reasons, negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Apartment Rental Marketplaces On April 1, 2014 (the Closing Date), we increased our presence in the multifamily vertical by acquiring from Classified Ventures, LLC (CV), certain assets and assuming certain liabilities, in each case, related to the Apartments.com business (collectively referred to as Apartments.com), a national online apartment rentals resource for renters, property managers and owners. Apartments.com offers renters a database of apartment listings and provides professional property management companies and landlords an advertising destination. Renters can conduct personalized searches of apartment listings and view video demonstrations and community reviews through the Apartments.com website and mobile applications. The Apartments.com network of rental websites also includes ApartmentHomeLiving.com, another national online apartment rentals resource. Apartments.com draws on CoStars multifamily database, which contains detailed information on apartment properties. We designed the improved Apartments.com website, which was launched in February 2015, to meet renter preferences and demands, which we believe will drive traffic to the site and attract advertisers who prefer to advertise on heavily trafficked apartment websites. The site provides a comprehensive selection of rentals, information on actual availabilities and rents, and in-depth data on neighborhoods, including restaurants, nightlife, history, schools and other facts important to renters. To help renters find the information that meets their needs, the site also offers innovative search tools such as the Polygon TM Search, which allows renters to specifically define the area in which they want to find an apartment, and Plan Commute tools, which allows renters to search property listings that meet their transportation needs. 35 To further support our expansion into the multifamily vertical, on June 1, 2015, we acquired Network Communications, Inc. (NCI), including its Apartment Finder business (collectively referred to as Apartment Finder). Apartment Finder provides lead generation, advertising, and Internet marketing solutions to property managers and owners through its main service, ApartmentFinder.com. Similar to Apartments.com, we developed technology to allow ApartmentFinder.com to draw on CoStars multifamily database. In December 2015, we launched the new ApartmentFinder.com website to meet renter preferences and demands, which we believe will drive traffic to the site and attract advertisers who prefer to advertise on heavily trafficked apartment websites. We also have phased out print advertising from Apartment Finder and moved to an all-digital offering. In 2015, we entered into an agreement to be the exclusive third party provider of apartment community listings on the websites owned and operated by News Corp. subsidiary Move, Inc.- realtor.com, move.com, and doorsteps.com - with advertiser content from Apartments.com and ApartmentFinder.com. Through this agreement, we are able to promote the apartment communities of our advertisers across six major apartment and real estate rental websites, increasing traffic across our network of apartment marketing websites, and in turn increasing the lead flow to our advertisers communities. Similar to our other past acquisitions, we have been, and plan to continue, integrating, further developing and cross-selling the services offered by Apartments.com and ApartmentFinder.com and the other services we offer, including but not limited to CoStar Market Analytics. We have incurred and plan to continue to incur product development costs to improve the online Apartments.com and ApartmentFinder.com platforms. We have increased our sales and marketing expenses in order to support Apartments.com and to increase brand awareness. In conjunction with the launch of the improved Apartments.com website, we embarked on a wide-scale marketing campaign in 2015 to generate brand awareness and site traffic for Apartments.com. The marketing campaign featured television and radio advertising, online/digital advertising, social media and out-of-home ads and was reinforced by Search Engine Marketing. We also increased our Search Engine Marketing to support Apartment Finder. In 2016, we ran a Super Bowl ad to continue to generate brand awareness and site traffic for Apartments.com. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing in 2016. As we continue to assess the success and effectiveness of our marketing campaign, we will also seek to determine the optimal level of marketing investment in the future. Development and Expansion We expect to continue our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate products and services, cross-sell existing services, and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research and sales and marketing organizations. We are committed to supporting and improving our information, news, analytic and online marketplace solutions. The launch of the improved Apartments.com website in February 2015 and the new ApartmentFinder.com website in December 2015 are examples of our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate products and services, and cross-sell existing services. We believe the improved sites, enhanced search capabilities, availability of information regarding real-time vacancies, and our continued development and introduction of enhancements to our online apartment rental marketplaces will attract more consumers, making these sites more attractive to property managers, which will increase our cross-selling opportunities. Our software development initiatives in 2015 included enhancing our new CoStar Lease Analysis integrated workflow tool to provide users a simple way to produce understandable cash flows for leases, and to enhance other lease comparable services. We believe greater functionality makes our services valuable to an even broader audience and helps us increase sales of our services to brokers, banks, owners and institutional investors. We expect technology enhancements to drive continued revenue growth in 2016 and for the foreseeable future. 36 We evaluate potential changes to our service offerings from time to time in order to better align the services we offer with customers needs. Further, in some cases, when integrating and coordinating our services and assessing industry and client needs, we may decide to combine, shift focus from, de-emphasize, phase out, or eliminate a service that, among other things, overlaps or is redundant with other services we offer. In the event that we eliminate or phase out particular service offerings, we may experience reduced revenues and earnings. The decision to eliminate or phase out a service offering may also ultimately result in increased revenues and earnings from sales of other services we offer in lieu of the eliminated or phased out services. For example, we recently eliminated certain Apartment Finder services and phased out Apartment Finder print advertising and moved to an all-digital offering. We expect a short-term reduction in revenues and associated costs resulting from the elimination of these Apartment Finder services. Additionally, we are working to integrate the backend systems of the LoopNet and CoStar databases, so that the two services will share a unified database of information in order to create efficiencies in operations and improved data for our customers. We also hope to increase the quantity and quality of the listing information available by enabling select brokers and other industry participants to load information directly into the integrated system, simultaneously reducing the time and costs associated with researching and maintaining our comprehensive database of commercial real estate information. Further, we continue to assess whether to transition the LoopNet marketplace to a pure marketing site for commercial real estate where, eventually, all listings would be paid and users could search the site for free. If and when we implement such a shift, we will seek to convert LoopNet marketplace customers to higher value, more profitable annual subscription information services, which should increase revenues and earnings over time. However, we cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of any reductions in revenues and earnings or subsequent increases in revenues and earnings, if any, resulting from any eliminations or phasing out of the LoopNet information services or any other service offering, if implemented. Our revenues have increased as a result of revenue from acquired businesses and from cross-selling opportunities among the customers of CoStar and the acquired companies. We expect to continue to increase revenues as a result of such cross-selling opportunities. We may incur increased expenses in connection with any marketing and sales campaigns involving cross-selling opportunities and initiatives, and in connection with promotion of our new services and brands. We are expanding the geographic reach of our North America services. In 2014, we began offering our services in Toronto, Canada. Building on our experience in Toronto, we have expanded and are continuing to expand our research into additional Canadian cities. In the second quarter of 2015, we began offering services in Calgary and Vancouver and are currently researching commercial real estate in the Canadian cities of Ottawa and Edmonton. Further, on July 1, 2015, we expanded our International services into Madrid, Spain through the acquisition of the assets of Belbex Corporate, S.L., a small commercial real estate information provider operating in Madrid. We believe that our integration efforts and continued investments in our services, including expansion of our existing service offerings, have created a platform for long-term revenue growth. We expect these investments to result in further penetration of our subscription-based services and the successful cross-selling of our services to customers in existing markets. We have invested in the expansion and development of our field sales force to support the growth and expansion of our company in North America and internationally. We plan to continue to invest in, evaluate and strategically position our sales force as the Company continues to develop and grow. We are also investing in our research capacity to support continued growth of our information and analytics offerings, to support Apartments.com and Apartment Finder, to expand into additional Canadian markets and to provide services in Madrid, Spain. While we believe investments we make in our business create a platform for growth, those investments may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business, in addition to the investments discussed above in order to develop and distribute new services within our current platform or expand the reach of our current service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services or internal expansion, development or restructuring efforts could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Any development efforts must comply with our credit facility, which contains restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow and may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. 37 Financial Matters Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. We also believe it is important to evaluate our operating results before and after the effect of currency changes, as it may provide a more accurate comparison of our results of operations over historical periods. See Item 7A for details on the impact currency changes have on our results of operations. Currency exchange rate volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and period-to-period comparisons of our consolidated operations. We currently issue stock options and/or restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The amount and timing of the compensation expense that we record depends on the amount and types of equity grants made. We plan to continue to use stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock option grants that typically will require us to record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. Grants of equity awards may vest over time or based on achievement of pre-approved performance conditions and market conditions. In February 2014, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved grants of restricted common stock to our executive officers that vest based on our achievement of a three-year cumulative revenue goal established at the grant date, and are subject to forfeiture in the event the foregoing performance condition is not met by December 31, 2016. In March 2015, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved grants of restricted common stock to our executive officers that vest based on our achievement of a three-year cumulative revenue goal established at the grant date, and are subject to forfeiture in the event the foregoing performance condition is not met by December 31, 2017. These grants of restricted common stock are also subject to continuing employment requirements and a market condition based on total shareholder return (TSR). The actual number of shares that vest at the end of the respective three-year period is determined based on our achievement of the three-year performance goals described above, as well as our TSR relative to the Russell 1000 Index over the related three-year performance period. As of December 31, 2015 , we reassessed the probability of achieving the performance and market conditions and determined that it was still probable that the performance and market conditions for the 2014 and 2015 performance-based restricted common stock awards would be met by their respective forfeiture dates. As a result, we recorded a total of approximately $1.1 million and $2.8 million of stock-based compensation expense related to the performance-based restricted common stock awards with a market condition for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015 , respectively. We expect to record an estimated unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to the performance-based restricted common stock awards of approximately $5.3 million over the periods 2016, 2017 and 2018. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors may grant additional performance-based equity awards in the future under the Companys 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Property Developments As in the past, we expect to continue to identify new facilities and consolidate existing facilities to better accommodate the changing demands of our business and employees. As a result, we may incur additional lease restructuring charges for the abandonment of certain lease space and the impairment of leasehold improvements. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. 38 Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently actively trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of December 31, 2015 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of contractual cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents our estimate of the yield expected by a market participant from the ARS investments. The weighted average discount rate used in the discounted cash flow model as of December 31, 2014 and 2015 was approximately 4.1% and 4.7% , respectively. Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of December 31, 2015 , we determined there was a net decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $435,000 . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of December 31, 2015 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. For equity instruments that vest based on a market condition, we estimate the fair value of each equity instrument granted on the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation model, which also requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the equity instruments. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of our stock price. For equity instruments that vest based on performance, we assess the probability of the achievement of the performance conditions at the end of each reporting period, or more frequently based upon the occurrence of events that may change the probability of whether the performance conditions would be met. If our initial estimates of the achievement of the performance conditions change, the related stock-based compensation expense and timing of recognition may fluctuate from period to period based on those estimates. If the performance conditions are not met, no stock-based compensation expense will be recognized, and any previously recognized stock-based compensation expense will be reversed. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. 39 Business Combinations We allocate the purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired customer bases, acquired database technology, and acquired trade names from a market participant's perspective, useful lives and discount rates. During the measurement period, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to recover the carrying value of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, North America and International, as our reporting units under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. To determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, growth rate and future financial performance. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about the growth rate and future financial performance of a reporting unit are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows. Our assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the International reporting unit reflect our expectation as of October 1, 2015, that revenues will continue to increase as a result of further penetration of our international subscription-based services, including into Madrid, Spain, and the successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets due to the release of our upgraded international platform and expansion of coverage of our international service offerings. These assumptions are subject to change from period to period and could be adversely impacted by the uncertainty surrounding global market conditions, commercial real estate conditions, and the competitive environment in which we operate. Changes in these or other factors could negatively affect our reporting units' fair value and potentially result in impairment charges. Such impairment charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2015, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2015 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. 40 To determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform a quantitative impairment test. We estimate the fair value of our existing indefinite-lived intangible assets using the relief from royalty method that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, revenue growth rate and royalty rate. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about the revenue growth rate are based on our forecasts, business plans and economic projections. Assumptions about the royalty rate are based on royalty agreements for comparable companies with similar intangible assets. As of October 1, 2015, the date of our most recent annual impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets substantially exceeded the carrying value. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2015 that would indicate that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset may not be recoverable. During the first quarter of 2014, we finalized a branding initiative plan that included, among other things, re-branding some of the services provided by our wholly owned subsidiaries, in order to better organize, update, streamline and optimize our branding strategy. We launched the branding initiative externally in the second quarter of 2014. Following the external launch of the branding initiative, we ceased using certain of our trade names. We evaluated these assets for impairment during the first quarter of 2014 and determined that the carrying value of trade names we ceased using exceeded the fair value. The adjusted carrying value of our trade name intangible assets associated with the branding initiative was amortized through the date of the external launch of the branding initiative and the fully amortized gross carrying amount was written off during the three months ended June 30, 2014. During the third quarter of 2014, we finalized and launched a separate marketing plan that included the re-branding of a service provided by another one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, in order to provide our customers with a more enhanced experience. Following the external launch of the branding initiative, we ceased using one of our trade names. We evaluated the asset for impairment during the third quarter of 2014 and determined that the carrying value of the trade name that we ceased using exceeded the fair value. As a result of these branding and marketing plans during 2014, we recorded impairment charges of approximately $1.8 million in cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of operations within our North America operating segment for the year ended December 31, 2014. In February 2015, as a result of our product development efforts, we launched the improved Apartments.com website with a cleaner look, information about actual rental availabilities, rents and other fees, and better search functionality. In conjunction with the launch, we ceased using the database technology acquired in the acquisition of Apartments.com. We evaluated the acquired database technology for impairment during the first quarter of 2015 and determined that the carrying value of the acquired database technology was impaired as we had ceased using the asset. In June 2015, following the June 1, 2015 acquisition of Apartment Finder, we decided to cease providing certain Apartment Finder services. Additionally, in June 2015, we decided to cease development work related to a development project within Apartment Finder. We evaluated the acquired customer base and acquired database technology for impairment during the second quarter of 2015 and, based on that evaluation, determined that the customer base and database technology assets associated with the ceased services and development work were impaired as they were not expected to provide us with any economic benefit. As a result of the launch of the improved Apartments.com website in 2015 and the decision to cease providing certain Apartment Finder services, we recorded an impairment charge of approximately $2.8 million, which was recorded in cost of revenues and general and administrative expense in the consolidated statements of operations within the Company's North America operating segment for the year ended December 31, 2015. 41 Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share (also referred to as non-GAAP EPS). EBITDA is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income (loss). In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income (loss) the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income (loss) or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income (loss). In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. 42 EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 28 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytics and online marketplace services, which has included acquisitions, our net income (loss) has included significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs and restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the diminishing value of any acquired trade names and other intangible assets and the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of interest expense we incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, interest expense, and income tax expense as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. 43 Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquisition. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in a contract or a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters or impairments on acquired intangible assets. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are purchase amortization and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss). We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2013 , 2014 and 2015 , we assumed a 38% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income (loss) per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income (loss) and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2014 2015 Net income (loss) $ 29,734 $ 44,869 $ (3,465 ) Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 11,883 26,290 30,077 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 15,183 28,432 27,931 Depreciation and other amortization 12,992 15,650 20,524 Interest income (326 ) (516 ) (537 ) Interest expense 6,943 10,481 9,411 Income tax expense, net 17,803 26,044 6,046 EBITDA $ 94,212 $ 151,250 $ 89,987 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 108,298 $ 143,909 $ 131,245 Investing activities $ (18,966 ) $ (605,987 ) $ (215,502 ) Financing activities $ 10,405 $ 733,513 $ (20,504 ) 44 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table provides our selected consolidated results of operations for the indicated periods (in thousands of dollars and as a percentage of total revenue): Year Ended December 31, 2013 2014 2015 Revenues $ 440,943 100.0 % $ 575,936 100.0 % $ 711,764 100.0 % Cost of revenues 129,185 29.3 156,979 27.3 188,885 26.5 Gross margin 311,758 70.7 418,957 72.7 522,879 73.5 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 98,708 22.4 150,305 26.1 302,226 42.5 Software development 46,757 10.6 55,426 9.6 65,760 9.2 General and administrative 96,956 22.0 103,916 18.0 115,507 16.2 Purchase amortization 15,183 3.4 28,432 4.9 27,931 3.9 Total operating expenses 257,604 58.4 338,079 58.6 511,424 71.8 Income from operations 54,154 12.3 80,878 14.1 11,455 1.7 Interest and other income 326 0.1 516 0.1 537 0.1 Interest and other expense (6,943 ) (1.6 ) (10,481 ) (1.8 ) (9,411 ) (1.4 ) Income before income taxes 47,537 10.8 70,913 12.4 2,581 0.4 Income tax expense, net 17,803 4.1 26,044 4.6 6,046 0.8 Net income (loss) $ 29,734 6.7 % $ 44,869 7.8 % $ (3,465 ) (0.4 )% Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2015 and Year Ended December 31, 2014 Revenues . Revenues increased to $711.8 million in 2015 , from $575.9 million in 2014 . The $135.9 million increase was primarily attributable to increased revenue of approximately $83.8 million from Apartment Finder and Apartments.com as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $522.9 million in 2015 , from $419.0 million in 2014 . The gross margin percentage increased to 73.5% in 2015 , from 72.7% in 2014 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was principally due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues of $31.9 million . The increase in costs of revenues is primarily due to the additional cost of revenues from our June 1, 2015 acquisition of Apartment Finder. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $302.2 million in 2015 , from $150.3 million in 2014 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 42.5% in 2015 , from 26.1% in 2014 . The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to a wide-scale marketing campaign that began during the first quarter of 2015 and continued to run through the remainder of 2015 to generate brand awareness and site traffic for Apartments.com. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $65.8 million in 2015 , from $55.4 million in 2014 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.2% in 2015 , from 9.6% in 2014 . The increase in the amount of software development expense was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs to support enhancements and upgrades to our services. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $115.5 million in 2015 , from $103.9 million in 2014 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 16.2% in 2015 from 18.0% in 2014 . The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to additional general and administrative expenses of $16.3 million from Apartment Finder and Apartments.com. These increases in general and administrative expenses were partially offset by loss contingencies and other legal costs related to litigation of approximately $3.4 million incurred during 2014 that did not occur during 2015 , as well as a decrease in acquisition-related costs of approximately $479,000 in 2015 compared to 2014 . 45 Purchase Amortization Expense. Purchase amortization expense decreased to approximately $27.9 million in 2015 , from $28.4 million in 2014 , and decreased as a percentage of revenue to 3.9% in 2015 , compared to 4.9% in 2014 . The decrease in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was primarily due to a decrease in purchase amortization expense from LoopNet of $2.3 million due to the accelerated amortization of the LoopNet acquired customer base in 2014 , partially offset by an increase in purchase amortization expenses of $2.0 million from Apartment Finder and Apartments.com in 2015 . Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income increased to approximately $537,000 in 2015 compared to approximately $516,000 in 2014 . The increase was primarily due to our higher average cash and cash equivalent balance in 2015 resulting from the public equity offering we completed in June 2014. Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense decreased to $9.4 million in 2015 compared to $10.5 million in 2014 . The decrease was due to the decrease in interest expense resulting from a lower outstanding long-term debt balance during 2015 , compared to 2014 . Income Tax Expense, Net. Income tax expense, net decreased to $6.0 million in 2015 compared to $26.0 million in 2014 . This decrease was primarily due to lower income before income taxes in 2015 as compared to 2014 as a result of our wide-scale marketing campaign that began during the first quarter of 2015 to generate brand awareness and site traffic for Apartments.com. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2015 and Year Ended December 31, 2014 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and parts of Canada, and International, which includes parts of the U.K., Spain and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $686.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $552.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . This increase in North America revenues was primarily due to increased revenue of approximately $83.8 million from Apartment Finder and Apartments.com as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $25.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $23.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Segment EBITDA. North America EBITDA decreased to $87.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $148.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The decrease in North America EBITDA was due primarily to our wide-scale marketing campaign that began during the first quarter of 2015 to generate brand awareness and site traffic for Apartments.com. International EBITDA increased to $2.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . This increase in International EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenues. North America EBITDA includes an allocation of approximately $954,000 and $1.1 million for the years ended 2015 and 2014 , respectively. This allocation represents costs incurred for International employees involved in development activities of our North America operating segment. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $256,000 and $261,000 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. This corporate allocation represents costs incurred for North America employees involved in management and expansion activities of our International operating segment. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the non-GAAP financial measures. Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2014 and Year Ended December 31, 2013 Revenues . Revenues increased to $575.9 million in 2014, from $440.9 million in 2013. The $135.0 million increase was primarily attributable to increased revenue of approximately $76.8 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Apartments.com as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. 46 Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $419.0 million in 2014, from $311.8 million in 2013. The gross margin percentage increased to 72.7% in 2014, from 70.7% in 2013. The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was principally due to an increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues of $27.8 million primarily due to the additional cost of revenues from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Apartments.com. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $150.3 million in 2014, from $98.7 million in 2013, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 26.1% in 2014, from 22.4% in 2013. The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the additional selling and marketing expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Apartments.com. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $55.4 million in 2014, from $46.8 million in 2013, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.6% in 2014, from 10.6% in 2013. The increase in the amount of software development expense was primarily due to the additional software development expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Apartments.com. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $103.9 million in 2014, from $97.0 million in 2013, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 18.0% in 2014 from 22.0% in 2013. The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was principally due to additional general and administrative expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Apartments.com. Purchase Amortization Expense. Purchase amortization expense increased to approximately $28.4 million in 2014, from $15.2 million in 2013, and increased as a percentage of revenue to 4.9% in 2014, compared to 3.4% in 2013. The increase in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was due to additional purchase amortization expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Apartments.com. Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income increased to approximately $516,000 in 2014 compared to approximately $326,000 in 2013. The increase was primarily due to our higher cash and cash equivalent balance in 2014 resulting from the public equity offering completed in June 2014. Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense increased to $10.5 million in 2014 compared to $6.9 million in 2013. The increase was due to the increase in interest expense resulting from a higher outstanding long-term debt balance during 2014, compared to 2013. Income Tax Expense, Net. Income tax expense, net increased to $26.0 million in 2014, from $17.8 million in 2013. This increase was primarily due to higher income before income taxes in 2014 as a result of our increased profitability. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2014 and Year Ended December 31, 2013 Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $552.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $420.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. This increase in North America revenues was primarily due to increased revenues of approximately $76.8 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of Apartments.com as well as further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $23.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $20.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Segment EBITDA. North America EBITDA increased to $148.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $97.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase in North America EBITDA was due primarily to an increase in revenues in 2014 compared to 2013. International EBITDA increased to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to a loss of $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. This increase in International EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenue and a decrease in operating expenses. North America EBITDA includes an allocation of approximately $1.1 million and $800,000 for the years ended 2014 and 2013, respectively. This allocation represents costs incurred for International employees involved in development activities of our North America operating segment. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $300,000 and $400,000 for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. This corporate allocation represents costs incurred for North America employees involved in management and expansion activities of our International operating segment. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the non-GAAP financial measures. 47 Consolidated Quarterly Results of Operations The following tables summarize our consolidated results of operations on a quarterly basis for the indicated periods (in thousands, except per share amounts, and as a percentage of total revenues): 2014 2015 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues $ 119,076 $ 147,708 $ 153,056 $ 156,096 $ 159,020 $ 170,657 $ 189,078 $ 193,009 Cost of revenues 33,643 39,481 40,932 42,923 45,396 44,634 53,728 45,127 Gross margin 85,433 108,227 112,124 113,173 113,624 126,023 135,350 147,882 Operating expenses 68,292 91,318 88,644 89,825 117,131 146,152 135,781 112,360 Income (loss) from operations 17,141 16,909 23,480 23,348 (3,507 ) (20,129 ) (431 ) 35,522 Interest and other income 137 62 46 271 294 137 42 64 Interest and other expense (1,615 ) (3,753 ) (2,698 ) (2,415 ) (2,343 ) (2,354 ) (2,363 ) (2,351 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 15,663 13,218 20,828 21,204 (5,556 ) (22,346 ) (2,752 ) 33,235 Income tax expense (benefit), net 5,923 4,969 7,871 7,281 571 (7,380 ) 2,610 10,245 Net income (loss) $ 9,740 $ 8,249 $ 12,957 $ 13,923 $ (6,127 ) $ (14,966 ) $ (5,362 ) $ 22,990 Net income (loss) per share basic $ 0.34 $ 0.28 $ 0.41 $ 0.44 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.47 ) $ (0.17 ) $ 0.72 Net income (loss) per share diluted $ 0.34 $ 0.28 $ 0.40 $ 0.43 $ (0.19 ) $ (0.47 ) $ (0.17 ) $ 0.71 2014 2015 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 28.3 26.7 26.7 27.5 28.5 26.2 28.4 23.4 Gross margin 71.7 73.3 73.3 72.5 71.5 73.8 71.6 76.6 Operating expenses 57.3 61.9 57.9 57.6 73.7 85.6 71.8 58.2 Income (loss) from operations 14.4 11.4 15.4 14.9 (2.2 ) (11.8 ) (0.2 ) 18.4 Interest and other income 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.1 Interest and other expense (1.3 ) (2.5 ) (1.8 ) (1.5 ) (1.5 ) (1.4 ) (1.2 ) (1.2 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 13.2 9.0 13.6 13.6 (3.5 ) (13.1 ) (1.4 ) 17.2 Income tax expense (benefit), net 5.0 3.4 5.1 4.7 0.4 (4.3 ) 1.4 5.3 Net income (loss) 8.2 % 5.6 % 8.5 % 8.9 % (3.9 )% (8.8 )% (2.8 )% 11.9 % Recent Acquisitions Apartments.com . On April 1, 2014, we purchased from CV certain assets and assumed certain liabilities, in each case, related to Apartments.com, for $584.2 million in cash, after taking into account closing date net working capital adjustments. Apartment Finder . On June 1, 2015, we acquired 100% of the outstanding stock of NCI, including its Apartment Finder business, for $172.7 million in cash, after taking into account closing date net working capital adjustments. 48 Accounting Treatment . We have applied the acquisition method to account for the Apartments.com and Apartment Finder transactions, which requires that, among other things, assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their fair values as of the acquisition date. The purchase price for each acquisition was allocated to trade names, customer base, database technology, building photography, goodwill and various other asset and liability accounts. For Apartments.com, the acquired customer base for the acquisition consists of one distinct intangible asset, is composed of acquired customer contracts and the related customer relationships, and has an estimated useful life of ten years. The acquired database technology had an estimated useful life of one year due to our intent to replace the acquired database technology, which we did in February of 2015. The acquired trade names and other intangible assets have a weighted average estimated useful life of thirteen years. The acquired building photography has an estimated useful life of three years. Amortization of the acquired customer base is recognized on an accelerated basis related to the expected economic benefit of the intangible asset, while amortization of the acquired database technology, acquired building photography and acquired trade names and other intangible assets is recognized on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful lives. Goodwill recorded in connection with this acquisition is not amortized, but is subject to annual impairment tests. The results of operations of Apartments.com have been consolidated with those of the Company since the date of the acquisition. For Apartment Finder, the acquired customer base for the acquisition consisted of three distinct intangible assets, is composed of acquired customer contracts and the related customer relationships, and has a weighted average estimated useful life of ten years. The acquired database technology had an estimated useful life of five months due to our intent to replace the acquired database technology in 2015, which we did in December of 2015. The acquired trade names and other intangible assets have a weighted average estimated useful life of nine years. The acquired building photography had an estimated useful life of five months. Amortization of the acquired customer base is recognized on an accelerated basis related to the expected economic benefit of the intangible asset, while amortization of the acquired database technology, acquired building photography and acquired trade names and other intangible assets is recognized on a straight-line basis over their respective estimated useful lives. Goodwill recorded in connection with this acquisition is not amortized, but is subject to annual impairment tests. The results of operations of Apartment Finder have been consolidated with those of the Company since the date of the acquisition. See Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the acquisitions of Apartments.com and Apartment Finder. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and debt from our term loan and revolving credit facility. Total cash and cash equivalents were $421.8 million at December 31, 2015 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $527.0 million at December 31, 2014 . The decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the year ended December 31, 2015 was primarily due to net cash paid of $182.3 million for the acquisitions of Apartment Finder, the assets of Belbex Corporate, S.L., and certain assets related to the business operations of Apartment Finder's independent distributors. Changes in cash and cash equivalents are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $131.2 million compared to $143.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . The $12.7 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a decrease of approximately $15.7 million from net income plus non-cash items, partially offset by a net increase of approximately $3.0 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities due to differences in timing of collection of receipts and payments of disbursements. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2015 was $215.5 million compared to $606.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . This $390.5 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities in 2015 was primarily due to $584.2 million of cash used for the acquisition of Apartments.com on April 1, 2014, partially offset by $182.3 million of cash used for the acquisitions of Apartment Finder, the assets of Belbex Corporate, S.L., and certain assets related to the business operations of Apartment Finder's independent distributors during 2015 . 49 Net cash used in financing activities was $20.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 , compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $733.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 . This $754.0 million change was primarily due to proceeds of $550.0 million received under the term loan facility and revolving credit facility on April 1, 2014 and the $529.4 million in net proceeds from our public equity offering in June 2014, less the $148.8 million repayment of the term loan facility and revolving credit facility established under a credit agreement dated February 16, 2012 (the 2012 Credit Agreement), $150.0 million repayment of the revolving credit facility associated with the credit agreement by and among CoStar, as Borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc., as Co-Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the 2014 Credit Agreement) and the $10.0 million payment of debt issuance costs associated with the 2014 Credit Agreement which did not occur during 2015 . Contractual Obligations . The following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2015 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Total 2016 2017-2018 2019-2020 2021 and thereafter Operating leases $ 168,590 $ 22,896 $ 42,608 $ 36,354 $ 66,732 Long-term debt obligations (1) 365,000 20,000 90,000 255,000 Purchase obligations (2) 29,245 17,033 12,205 7 Total contractual principal cash obligations $ 562,835 $ 59,929 $ 144,813 $ 291,361 $ 66,732 (1) Long-term debt obligations include scheduled principal payments and exclude interest payments, which are based on a variable rate of interest as defined in the Credit Agreement. (2) Amounts do not include (i) contracts with terms of twelve months or less, or (ii) multi-year contracts that may be terminated by a third-party or us. Amounts do not include unrecognized tax benefits of $6.7 million due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. During 2015 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $35.1 million . We expect to make aggregate capital expenditures in 2016 of approximately $30.0 million to $35.0 million, primarily related to the build out of leased office space and investments in technology. In conjunction with the launch of the improved Apartments.com website, we embarked on a wide-scale marketing campaign in 2015 to generate brand awareness and site traffic for Apartments.com. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing, including sales and marketing for Apartments.com and our other brands as we seek to grow the number of our subscribers and advertisers. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. In consideration for the purchase of Apartment Finder, on June 1, 2015, we paid $172.7 million in cash, including an estimated $2.7 million in connection with a preliminary net working capital adjustment as of the closing date. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement and plan of merger, the purchase price was increased by approximately $21,000 following the final determination of the net working capital of NCI as of the closing date, and this amount was paid to NCI in the third quarter of 2015. 50 On April 1, 2014, we purchased Apartments.com from CV for a purchase price of $587.1 million, which was later reduced by approximately $2.9 million following the final determination of the net working capital of Apartments.com as of the Closing Date. On the Closing Date, we entered into the 2014 Credit Agreement. We funded the purchase price for Apartments.com at closing through a combination of cash on hand and the proceeds of the term loan facility and the initial borrowing under the revolving credit facility under the 2014 Credit Agreement. The 2014 Credit Agreement provides for a $400.0 million term loan facility and a $225.0 million revolving credit facility, each with a term of five years. The proceeds of the term loan facility and the initial borrowing of $150.0 million under the revolving credit facility on the Closing Date were also used to refinance the term loan facility and revolving credit facility established under the 2012 Credit Agreement, including related fees and expenses. The undrawn proceeds of the revolving credit facility are available for our working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2015 , maturities of our borrowings under the 2014 Credit Agreement for each of the next four years ended December 31, 2016 to 2019, are expected to be $20.0 million , $35.0 million , $55.0 million and $255.0 million , respectively. During June 2014, we repaid the $150.0 million initial borrowing under the revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility includes a subfacility for swingline loans of up to $10.0 million, and up to $10.0 million of the revolving credit facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit. The term loan facility will amortize in quarterly installments in amounts resulting in an annual amortization of 5% during each of the first, second and third years, 10% during the fourth year and 15% during the fifth year after the Closing Date, with the remainder payable at final maturity. The loans under the 2014 Credit Agreement bear interest, at our option, either (i) during any interest period selected by us, at the London interbank offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars with a maturity comparable to such interest period, adjusted for statutory reserves (LIBOR), plus an initial spread of 2.00% per annum, subject to adjustment based on our First Lien Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2014 Credit Agreement), or (ii) at the greatest of (x) the prime rate from time to time announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., (y) the federal funds effective rate plus 0.50% and (z) LIBOR for a one-month interest period plus 1.00%, plus an initial spread of 1.00% per annum, subject to adjustment based on our First Lien Secured Leverage Ratio. If an event of default occurs under the 2014 Credit Agreement, the interest rate on overdue amounts will increase by 2.00% per annum. The obligations under the 2014 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by all of our material subsidiaries and are secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and those of our material subsidiaries, in each case subject to certain exceptions, pursuant to security and guarantee documents entered into on the Closing Date. The 2014 Credit Agreement requires us to maintain (i) a First Lien Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2014 Credit Agreement) not exceeding 4.00 to 1.00 during each full fiscal quarter after the Closing Date through the three months ended March 31, 2016, and 3.50 to 1.00 thereafter and (ii) after the incurrence of additional indebtedness under certain specified exceptions in the 2014 Credit Agreement, a Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2014 Credit Agreement) not exceeding 5.00 to 1.00 during each full fiscal quarter after the Closing Date through the three months ended March 31, 2016, and 4.50 to 1.00 thereafter. The 2014 Credit Agreement also includes other covenants, including covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) create, incur, assume or permit to exist any liens, (iii) enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions, (iv) make investments and acquisitions, (v) make certain dispositions of assets, (vi) make dividends, distributions and prepayments of certain indebtedness, and (vii) enter into certain transactions with affiliates. We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2014 Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2015 . In connection with obtaining the term loan facility and revolving credit facility pursuant to the 2014 Credit Agreement, we incurred approximately $10.1 million in debt issuance costs as of April 1, 2014. The debt issuance costs were comprised of approximately $9.7 million in underwriting fees and approximately $400,000 primarily related to legal fees associated with the debt issuance. Approximately $10.0 million of the fees associated with the refinancing, along with the unamortized debt issuance cost from the 2012 Credit Agreement, were capitalized and are amortized as interest expense over the term of the 2014 Credit Agreement using the effective interest method. As of December 31, 2014 and 2015 , no amounts were outstanding under our revolving credit facilities. Total interest expense for our term loan facilities and revolving credit facilities was approximately $6.9 million , $10.5 million and $9.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2014 and 2015 , respectively. Interest expense included amortized debt issuance costs of approximately $3.0 million , $3.3 million and $3.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2014 and 2015 , respectively. Total interest paid for the term loan facilities was approximately $4.3 million , $7.0 million and $6.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 , 2014 and 2015 , respectively. In 2012, we granted a total of 399,413 shares pursuant to performance-based restricted common stock awards with a forfeiture date of March 31, 2017. Upon vesting of these awards during the first quarter of 2014, consistent with minimum tax withholding requirements, a portion of the shares subject to the awards were remitted by the employees for payment of their individual income tax obligations. The shares remitted were canceled and we made a cash tax payment equivalent to the fair market value of the canceled shares of approximately $31.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2014. 51 Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of December 31, 2015 , we had $16.8 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the FFELP of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investments below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In May 2014, the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) jointly issued a new revenue recognition standard that is designed to improve financial reporting by creating common recognition guidance for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This guidance provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues, improves the comparability of revenue recognition practices across industries, provides more useful information to users of financial statements through improved disclosure requirements and simplifies the presentation of financial statements. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance permits the use of either a full retrospective method or a modified retrospective approach. The modified retrospective approach would be applied only to the most current period presented along with a cumulative-effect adjustment at the date of adoption. The original effective date of the new standard was for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. In August 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update that defers by one year the effective date of this new revenue recognition standard. As a result, the new standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, although companies may adopt the standard as early as the original effective date. Early application prior to the original effective date is not permitted. We have not yet determined when we will adopt the standard or selected a transition method and are currently evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs. This guidance requires a company to present debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The recognition and measurement guidance for debt issuance costs are not affected by this guidance. In August 2015, the FASB issued an accounting standards update to address the presentation and subsequent measurement of debt issuance costs related to line-of-credit arrangements. The guidance allows an entity to present debt issuance costs related to a line-of-credit arrangement as an asset and subsequently amortize the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of the line-of-credit arrangement, regardless of whether there are any outstanding borrowings under the line-of-credit arrangement. The April 2015 guidance and the August 2015 guidance are effective on a retrospective basis for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is permitted. We have elected to early adopt this guidance on a retrospective basis. This guidance did not have a material impact on the Company's results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2014 and 2015, but it did require changes to the presentation of the 2014 and 2015 consolidated balance sheets and the notes to the consolidated financial statements. We capitalized debt issuance costs, net of amortization, of approximately $13.2 million and $9.9 million as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2015 , respectively. These amounts are reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as a direct deduction from a combination of the current and long-term portion of debt, rather than as an asset, in accordance with the authoritative guidance. See Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details on the presentation of debt issuance costs. 52 In November 2015, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes. This guidance requires a company to present deferred income tax assets and liabilities as non-current in the balance sheet. The guidance requiring a tax-paying component of a company to offset deferred tax liabilities and assets and present the deferred taxes as a single amount is not affected by this guidance. This guidance is effective on either a prospective or retrospective basis for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is permitted. We have elected to early adopt this guidance on a prospective basis and as a result, prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2015.