Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. See Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2. for additional factors relating to such statements, and see Risk Factors in Item 1A. of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (CoStar) is the number one provider of information , marketing and analytic services to the commercial real estate industry in the U.S. and the U.K. based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available, have the largest research department in the industry, provide more information, marketing and analytic services than any of our competitors and believe we generate more revenues than any of our competitors. We have created a standardized information, marketing and analytic platform where members of the commercial real estate and related business community can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently exchanging accurate and standardized commercial real estate information. Our integrate d suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, tenant information, information about properties for sale, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration, and industry news. We also provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our Property and Portfolio Research, Inc. (PPR) service offerings and portfolio and debt management and reporting capabilities through our Resolve Technology, Inc. (Resolve Technology) service offerings. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, industrial, retail, land, mixed-use, hospitality and multifamily. Since 1994, we have expanded the geographical coverage of our existing information and marketing services and developed new information, marketing and analytic services. This expansion included the acquisitions of Chicago ReSource, Inc. in Chicago in 1996 and New Market Systems, Inc. in San Francisco in 1997. In August 1998, we expanded into the Houston region through the acquisition of Houston-based real estate information provider C Data Services, Inc. In January 1999, we expanded further into the Midwest and Florida by acquiring LeaseTrend, Inc. and into Atlanta and Dallas/Fort Worth by acquiring Jamison Research, Inc. In February 2000, we acquired COMPS.COM, Inc., a San Diego-based provider of commercial real estate information. In November 2000, we acquired First Image Technologies, Inc., a California-based pr ovider of commercial real estate software. In September 2002, we expanded further into Portland, Oregon through the acquisition of certain assets of Napier Realty Advisors (doing business as REAL-NET). In January 2003, we established a base in the U.K. with our acquisition of London-based FOCUS Information Limited. In May 2004, we expanded into Tennessee through the acquisition of Peer Market Research, Inc., and in September 2004, we extended our coverage of the U.K. through the acquisition of Scottish Property Network. In September 2004, we strengthened our position in Colorado through the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Denver-based RealComp, Inc., a local comparable sales information provider. In January 2005, we acquired National Research Bureau, a Connecticut-based provider of U.S. shopping center information. In December 2006, our U.K. subsidiary, CoStar Limited, acquired Grecam S.A.S. (Grecam), a provider of commercial property information and market-level surveys, studies and consulting services located in Paris, France. In February 2007, CoStar Limited also acquired Property Investment Exchange Limited (Propex), a provider of commercial property information and operator of an electronic platform that facilitates the exchange of investment property located in London, England. In April 2008, we acquired the assets of First CLS, Inc. (doing business as the Dorey Companies and DoreyPRO), an Atlanta-based provider of local commercial real estate information. Most recently, in July 2009, we acquired Massachusetts-based PPR, a provider of real estate analysis, market forecasts and 23 credit risk analytics to the commercial real estate industry, and its wholly owned U.K. subsidiary Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., and in October 2009, we acquired Massachusetts-based Resolve Technology, a provider of business intelligence and portfolio management software serving the institutional real estate investment industry. The PPR and Resolve Technology acquisitions are discussed later in this section under the heading Recent Acquisitions. We have consistently worked to expand our service offerings, both in terms of geographical coverage and the scope of services offered in order to position the company for future revenue growth. In 2004, we began our expansion into 21 new metropolitan markets throughout the U.S. and began expanding the geographical coverage of many of our existing U.S. and U.K. markets. We completed our expansion into the 21 new markets in the first quarter of 2006. During the second half of 2006, in order to further expand the geographical coverage of our service offerings, we began actively researching commercial properties in 81 new Core Based Statistical Areas (CBSAs) in the U.S., we increased our U.S. field research fleet by adding 89 vehicles and we hired researchers to staff these vehicles. We released our CoStar Propert y Professional service in the 81 new CBSAs across the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2007. In early 2005, in conjunction with the acquisition of National Research Bureau, we launched a major effort to expand our coverage of retail real estate information. The retail component of our flagship product, CoStar Property Professional, was unveiled in May 2006 at the International Council of Shopping Centers convention in Las Vegas. In May 2008, we released CoStar Showcase , an Internet marketing service that provides commercial real estate professionals the ability to make their listings accessible to all visitors to www.CoStar.com and www.Showcase.com. During the second half of 2009, as a part of our strategy to provide subscribers with tools for conducting primary research and analysis on commercial real estate, we expanded subscribers 8217; capabilities to use CoStars database of research-verified commercial property information to conduct in-depth analysis and generate reports on trends in sales and leasing activity online. In conjunction with our acquisitions of PPR and Resolve Technology, we are currently focusing on integration and further development of their service offerings. We have launched an initiative to develop a discounted cash flow (DCF) forecasting and valuation solution that effectively integrates the combined capabilities of CoStars market and property information and PPRs analytics and forecasting with Resolve Technologys real estate investment software expertise. We expect that the development of the DCF solution will establish a foundation for introduction of an automated valuation model for commercial real estate. Our goal is to provide additional tools that make our research and analytics even more valuable to subsribers. Our efforts have included, and may continue to inclu de, hiring of additional personnel to support this initiative. While our investments in PPR and Resolve Technology have resulted and may continue to result in an increase in expenses, we have also seen an increase in revenues as a result of the acquisitions and increased cross-selling opportunities among CoStar and the acquired companies. We have also focused on expanding our geographical coverage and service offerings through our international operations. In connection with our acquisitions of Propex, Grecam and PPRs wholly owned subsidiary Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., we intend to integrate our international operations more fully with those in the U.S. We intend to eventually introduce a consistent international platform of service offerings. In 2007, we introduced the CoStar Group as the brand encompassing our international operations, and in early 2010 we launched Showcase, our Internet marketing service, in the U.K. We believe that our recent U.S. and international expansion and integration efforts have created a platform for long - -term growth. We intend to continue to expand the breadth and depth of our platform and market coverage through acquisitions. Specifically, we plan to continue to target acquisition candidates that we believe will enable us to leverage our existing assets, including our database, service offerings and sales force, in ways that enhance the value of our services to subscribers, create additional growth opportunities and generate future revenues. In addition, we expect to continue to develop and distribute new services, expand existing services within our current platform, and expand and develop our sales and marketing organization. Any future expansion, including expansion through acquisitions and expansion internationally, could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Therefore, while we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings throughout 2010 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, it is possible that any new investments could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. 24 We recently decided to take advantage of favorable market conditions to lower our long-term occupancy costs as a tenant. In 2010, we expect to consolidate three facilities located in the Boston, Massachusetts area, including facilities used by CoStar, PPR and Resolve Technology, into one facility. We expect to incur approximately $1.0 million to $1.3 million in restructuring and other related costs related to the consolidation of our three facilities in Boston, MA in 2010. We also recently purchased an office building in downtown Washington, D.C. for $41.25 million for use as our new headquarters, and began transitioning employees to this new location in the third quarter of 2010. The lease for our current headquarters in Bethesda, MD expires on October 15, 2010, and we expect to incur overlapping oc cupancy costs through the end of the current lease term as we transition to our new headquarters. After the transition period, we expect to realize long-term savings in occupancy costs. Most recently, as part of our overall strategy to consolidate our London office locations and reduce occupancy costs, we entered into a settlement pursuant to which we terminated our lease for our former London offices. We expect capital expenditures to increase in 2010 primarily for facilities related capital expenditures. Although current general economic conditions in the U.S. and the world continue to negatively affect business operations for our clients and result in business consolidations and, in certain circumstances, failures, we have recently seen improving conditions in commercial real estate, including heightened leasing activity, potentially as a result of office-related job growth. During the second quarter of 2010, customer cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay amounts due to us declined from the same time period in 2009. If cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay revert to rates seen in 2008 or 2009 or increase in a meaningful way, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at reduced rates . We compete against many providers of similar services. If customers choose to cancel our services for cost-cutting or other reasons, our revenue could decline. The extent and duration of any future weakening of the economy is unknown. The extent and duration of any benefits resulting from any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to strengthen the economy are currently unknown and there can be no assurance that those initiatives will be successful in the future. Because of these uncertainties, we may not be able to accurately forecast our revenue or earnings. However, we continue to believe that the Company is positioned to generate continued, sustained earnings from current operations in 2010. Fluctuations in commercial real estate leasing activity and vacancy rates, as well as office-related employment and other factors that affect the commercial real estate industry may positively or negatively affect our number of subscribers and our average contract value, which in turn may affect our financial condition and results of operations. Management deems our contract renewal rate to be most indicative of short-term and long-term performance. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, our contract renewal rate was approximately 88% and 86%, respectively. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations, further reductions in customer spending or decreases in the customer base. 160;However, we have currently experienced movement of the trailing twelve-month renewal rate back towards our historical average of 90%. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. Currency volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and comparisons. We currently issue stock options and restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record additional compensation expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. We plan to continue the use of stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock or stock option grants that typically will require us to record additional compensation expense in our condensed consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. 25 Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional, and FOCUS services currently generate approximately 94% of our total revenues. CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. The majority of our contracts for our subscription-based information services typically have a minimum term of one year and renew automatically. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regula rly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the clients business focus, geography and the number of services to which a client subscribes. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. We recognize this revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different estimates reasonably cou ld have been used in the current period. Changes in the accounting estimates we use are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of June 30, 2010. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of June 30, 2010, we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $3.0 million. The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of June 30, 2010. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Fair Value of Deferred Consideration Our Level 3 liabilities consist of a $3.2 million liability as of June 30, 2010 for deferred consideration related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. The deferred consideration is for (i) a potential deferred cash payout two years after closing based on the incremental growth of Resolve Technologys revenue, and (ii) other potential deferred cash payouts for successful completion of operational and sales milestones during the period from closing through no later than October 31, 2013, which period may be subject to extension by the parties to a date no later than December 31, 2014. 26 We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our Level 3 liabilities as of June 30, 2010. The significant assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include the discount rate, estimates for future incremental revenue growth and probabilities for completion of operational and sales milestones. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the deferred consideration. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the deferred consideration as of June 30, 2010. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional liabilities related to this deferred consideration. Stock-Based Compensation Equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services are accounted for using a fair-value based method and the fair value of such equity instruments is recognized as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimated the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of the Companys stock price. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2010. However, if changes in these assumptions do occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows of the carrying amounts of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, U.S. and International, as our reporting units under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our future financial performance and a weighted average cost of capital. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We measure impairment loss based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a 27 discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2009, the most recent date of our impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2009 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. ; To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the statements of operations. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related c osts and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously repo rted results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income (loss). In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income (loss) the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance u nder GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income (loss) or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income (loss). In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Annual Reports on Form 10-K that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. 28 EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 22 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, marketing and analytic services, which included acquisitions, our net income (loss) has inclu ded significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition costs and restructuring costs. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of these non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe these non-GAAP measures are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and non-operating items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base and the diminishing value of any acquired trade names. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of net interest income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows or outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of net interest income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense (benefit) may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense (benefit) to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. 29 Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, net, and income tax expense (benefit) as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquired company. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of headquarters acquisition and transition related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the overlapping rent and building carrying costs, legal costs and other related costs incurred to relocate our headquarters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are stock-based compensation, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs, headquarter acquisition and transition related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business which are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA along with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss). We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. We assume a 40% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. 30 The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income and our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 2009 2010 2009 Net income $ 3,251 $ 4,616 $ 6,140 $ 10,722 Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 315 503 815 982 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 532 742 1,222 1,688 Depreciation and other amortization 2,459 2,213 4,917 4,464 Interest income, net (196 ) (322 ) (434 ) (764 ) Income tax expense, net 1,436 3,897 3,887 8,974 EBITDA $ 7,797 $ 11,649 $ 16,547 $ 26,066 Cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 14,059 $ 9,556 $ 20,699 $ 18,877 Investing activities 3,845 2,061 (38,425 ) 3,653 Financing activities 249 65 522 (69 ) Comparison of Three Months Ended June 30, 2010 and Three Months Ended June 30, 2009 Revenues. Revenues increased to $55.8 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $50.1 million in the second quarter of 2009. The $5.7 million increase was primarily due to additional revenues as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional and FOCUS, currently generate approximately 94% of our total revenues. Gross Margin. Gross margin increased to $35.5 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $33.3 million in the second quarter of 2009. The increase in the gross margin amount is due to an increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. The gross margin percentage decreased to 63.5% in the second quarter of 2010 from 66.6% in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease in the percentage of gross margin was principally due to an increase in the cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $20.4 million for the second quarter of 2010 from $16.7 million for the second quarter of 2009. The increase in the cost of revenues was principally due to additional cost of revenues of approximately $2.5 million, included as a result of our July 2009 acquisiti on of PPR as well as an increase in research personnel costs of approximately $1.6 million due primarily to increased headcount. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $12.9 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $9.8 million in the second quarter of 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.1% in the second quarter of 2010 from 19.5% in the second quarter of 2009. The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs of approximately $1.9 million due to increased sales headcount as well as additional selling and marketing expenses included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $4.1 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $3.1 million in the second quarter of 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 7.4% in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 6.1% in the second quarter of 2009. The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expense was primarily due to additional software development expenses included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR and our October 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $13.5 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $11.6 million in the second quarter of 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 24.1% in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 23.1% in the second quarter of 2009. The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to $2.8 million accrued in anticipation of the settlement of two litigation matters. 31 Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization decreased to approximately $500,000 in the second quarter of 2010 compared to $700,000 in the second quarter of 2009, and was lower as a percentage of revenues at 1.0% in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 1.5% in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease in purchase amortization expense is due to the completion of amortization of certain identifiable intangible assets in 2010. Interest and Other Income, net. Interest and other income, remained relatively consistent at approximately $200,000 in the second quarter of 2010 and $300,000 in the second quarter of 2009. Income Tax Expense, net. Income tax expense, net decreased to $1.4 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $3.9 million in the second quarter of 2009. This decrease was due to lower income before income taxes as a result of our decreased profitability as well as the recognition in the second quarter of 2010 of a discrete tax benefit related to our foreign operations. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended June 30, 2010 and Three Months Ended June 30, 2009 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being the U.S. and International, which includes the U.K. and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other me asures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. U.S. revenues increased to $51.5 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $45.7 million in the second quarter of 2009. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to additional revenues included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. International revenues increased to $4.7 million from $4.4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase in international rev enue is principally due to intersegment revenues of approximately $400,000 attributable to services performed by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd. for its U.S. parent PPR. Intersegment revenues are eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA decreased to $10.2 million in the second quarter of 2010 from $12.0 million in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease in U.S. EBITDA was due to additional costs incurred by PPR, which we acquired in July of 2009 and additional personnel costs. International EBITDA increased to a loss of approximately $2.4 million in the second quarter of 2010 from a loss of approximately $300,000 in the second quarter of 2009. This increased loss was primarily due to $2.0 million accrued in anticipation of the settlement of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $100,000 for each of the three months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U. S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 Revenues . Revenues increased to $110.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from $101.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The $9.5 million increase was primarily due to additional revenues as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional and FOCUS, currently generate approximately 94% of our total revenues. 32 Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $69.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from $67.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in the gross margin amount is due to an increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. Gross margin percentage decreased to 62.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from 66.8% for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The decrease in the percentage of gross margin was principally due to an increase in the cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $41.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010 from $33.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in the cost of revenues was principally due to additional cost of revenues of approximately $5.0 million, included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR as well as an increase in research personnel costs of approximately $3.6 million due primarily to increased headcount, partially offset by a decrease in purchase amortization of approximately $0.4 million. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $25.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from $18.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from 18.6% for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The increase is primarily due to increased costs of approximately $4.7 million due to increased sales headcount as well as additional selling and marketing expenses of approximately $1.3 million included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $8.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to $6.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 7.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2010 compared to 6.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expense was primarily due to additional software development expenses included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR and our October 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $24.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from $22.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 22.3% for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to 21.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to approximately $2.8 million accrued in anticipation of the settlement of two litigation matters, as well as additional general and administrative expenses included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR and our October 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology of approximately $1.8 million, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $1.8 million. Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization decreased to $1.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to $1.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 1.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from 1.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The decrease in purchase amortization expense is due to the completion of amortization for certain identifiable intangible assets in 2010. Interest and Other Income, net. Interest and other income, net decreased to approximately $400,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from $800,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2009 primarily due to lower short-term investments. Income Tax Expense, net. Income tax expense, net decreased to $3.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, from $9.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009. This decrease was due to lower income before income taxes as a result of our decreased profitability as well as the recognition in the second quarter of 2010 of a discrete tax benefit related to our foreign operations. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Six Months Ended June 30, 2010 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2009 Segment Revenues . U.S. revenues increased to $102.2 million from $92.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to additional revenues included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. International revenues increased to $9.5 million from $8.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase in international revenue is principally due to intersegment revenues of approximately $0.7 million attributable to services performed by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd. for PPR. Intersegment revenues are eliminated from total revenues. 33 Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA decreased to $19.6 million from $26.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease in U.S. EBITDA was due to additional costs incurred by PPR, which we acquired in July of 2009 and additional personnel costs. International EBITDA increased to a loss of $3.0 million from a loss of $500,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increased loss was primarily due to approximately $2.0 million accrued in anticipation of the settlement of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $300,000 and $200,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The corporate allocation represents cos ts incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. Recent Acquisitions On July 17, 2009, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding equity securities of PPR, and its wholly owned subsidiary, Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., providers of real estate analysis, market forecasts and credit risk analytics to the commercial real estate industry. We acquired PPR from DMG Information, Inc. (DMGI) in exchange for 572,999 shares of CoStar common stock, which had an aggregate value of approximately $20.9 million as of the closing date. On July 17, 2009, we issued 433,667 shares of our common stock to DMGI, and we issued the remaining 139,332 shares to DMGI on September 28, 2009 after taking into account post-closing purchase price adjustments. On October 19, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Resolve Technology, a Delaware corporation, for approximately $4.5 million, consisting of approximately $3.4 million in cash and 25,886 shares of CoStar common stock, which had an aggregate value of approximately $1.1 million as of the closing date, which shares are subject to a three-year lockup. The purchase price is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. Additionally, the seller may be entitled to receive (i) a potential deferred cash payment due approximately two years after closing based on the incremental growth of Resolve Technologys revenue as of September 2011 over its revenue as of September 2009, and (ii) other potential deferred cash payments for successful completion of operational and sales milestones during the pe riod from closing through no later than October 31, 2013, which period may be extended by the parties to a date no later than December 31, 2014. These acquisitions were accounted for using purchase accounting. For each of the PPR and Resolve Technology acquisitions, the purchase price was allocated to various working capital accounts, developed technology, customer base, trademarks, non-competition agreements and goodwill. The acquired customer base for the acquisitions, which consists of one distinct intangible asset for each acquisition and is composed of acquired customer contracts and the related customer relationships, is being amortized on a 125% declining balance method over ten years. The identified intangibles will be amortized over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill for these acquisitions will not be amortized, but is subject to annual impairment tests. The results of operations of PPR and Resolve Technology have been consolidate d with those of the Company since the respective dates of the acquisitions and are not considered material to our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, pro forma financial information has not been presented for any of the acquisitions. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased to $200.6 million at June 30, 2010, from $226.0 million at December 31, 2009. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was primarily due to the purchase of a 169,429 square-foot LEED Gold certified office building which will be our new headquarters, located at 1331 L Street, NW in downtown Washington, D.C. for a purchase price of $41.25 million in cash, and approximately $1.7 million in acquisition costs, partially offset by cash flows from operations. Changes in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises, purchases and sales of short-term investments and similar events. 34 Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was $20.7 million compared to $18.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2009. This $1.8 million increase was due to a $10.3 million net increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities due to differences in timing of collection of receipts and payments of disbursements partially offset by a decrease of $8.5 million from net income plus non-cash items. The $10.3 million net increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities is primarily related to approximately $3.5 million in increased collections on receivables related to improved collections from our customers in the midst of a recovering economy, and $4.4 million in increased accruals primarily related to $2.8 million accrued in June 2010 in anticipation of the settlement o f two litigation matters, and increased accruals associated with the operations of our recent acquisitions and new headquarters. Net cash used in investing activities was $38.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to $3.7 million net cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2009. This $42.1 million increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the February 2010 purchase of our new headquarters in downtown Washington, D.C. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $522,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2010, compared to approximately $69,000 of net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2009. The change is due to increased proceeds from exercise of stock options partially offset by increased share repurchases from employees to satisfy employee tax liabilities arising from vesting of restricted stock. During the six months ended June 30, 2010, we purchased our new headquarters in Washington, D.C., and incurred capital expenditures of approximately $3.8 million. In addition to the purchase of our new headquarters, we expect to make total capital expenditures in 2010 of approximately $20.0 million to $25.0 million, primarily related to facilities. In connection with the purchase of our new headquarters in Washington, D.C., we assumed the ground lease for the parcel of land under the building. The lease, which expires February 29, 2088, requires the payment of minimum annual rent of $778,000 through February 29, 2012, then approximately $918,000 annually to February 29, 2024. Thereafter, the minimum rate is adjusted to fair market value, as defined in the lease, once every 7 years. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our operating results, expansion efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. In the third quarter of 2009, we issued 572,999 shares of common stock to DMGI, Inc. for all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of PPR and its wholly owned subsidiary. In October 2009, we acquired Resolve Technology for approximately $3.4 million ($2.9 million was paid upon acquisition and $450,000 was deferred until February 2010) in cash and 25,886 shares of CoStar common stock, which had an aggregate value of approximately $1.1 million as of the closing date and are subject to a three-year lockup. Additionally, the s eller may be entitled to receive (i) a potential deferred cash payment due approximately two years after closing based on the incremental growth of Resolve Technologys revenue as of September 2011 over its revenue as of September 2009, and (ii) other potential deferred cash payments for successful completion of additional operational and sales milestones during the period from closing through no later than October 31, 2013, which period may be extended by the parties to a date no later than December 31, 2014. As of June 30, 2010, we had $32.5 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investm ents below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. As described in Footnote 9 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, on December 23, 2008, we initiated a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) arbitration against Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB) related to CSFBs purchase of ARS for our account. Our complaint asserts breach of contract, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty and other causes of action. Initial 35 arbitration hearings were conducted during the first and second quarter of 2010, and we expect additional hearings will occur in the third quarter of 2010. We expect to receive a ruling on our claim during 2010. Since the outcome of this legal proceeding is uncertain at this time, we cannot estimate the amount of gain or loss, if any, that could result from the resolution of this matter. As described in Footnote 9 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we and our wholly owned subsidiary CoStar U.K. Limited were defendants in legal proceedings filed in England by Nokia U.K. Limited (Nokia) related to a dispute concerning our termination of an agreement to lease certain office space from Nokia. Nokia served its complaint upon us in September 2009. In June 2010, we accrued approximately $2.0 million in anticipation of paying this amount as part of a settlement of this lawsuit. On July 20, 2010, the parties signed a settlement agreement formally resolving this litigation and we subsequently paid approximately $2.0 million to Nokia. As described in Footnote 9 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, on December 8, 2009, a former employee filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California alleging violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act and California state wage-and-hour laws and is seeking unspecified damages under those laws. The complaint also seeks to declare a class of all similarly situated employees to pursue similar claims. In May 2010, the parties reached a preliminary agreement to settle this lawsuit, and in June 2010, we accrued approximately $800,000 in anticipation of making a settlement payment that will formally resolve this litigation. We do not anticipate making any settlement payments until 201 1. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no developments to the Recent Accounting Pronouncements discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated financial statements, except for the following: In February 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amends the disclosure requirements related to subsequent events. This guidance includes the definition of a Securities and Exchange Commission filer, removes the definition of a public entity, redefines the reissuance disclosure requirements and allows public companies to omit the disclosure of the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after February 2010. This guidance did not materially impact our results of operations or financial position, but did require changes to our disclosures in our financial statements. In April 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance related to the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved if the milestone is: (a) commensurate with either the vendors performance to achieve the milestone or the enhancement of the value of the item delivered; (b) relates solely to past performance; and (c) is reasonable relative to all deliverables and payment terms in the arrangement. This guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2010 with early adoption permitted. The ado ption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our press releases and conference calls and other public statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2010 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions about our revenues, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, fully diluted net income, taxable income, income tax expense, cash flow from operating activities, available cash, operating costs, amortization expense, stock-based compensation expense, intangible asset recovery, net income per share, dilu ted net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, capital and other expenditures, effective tax rate, equity compensation charges, future taxable income, purchase amortization, financing plans, geographic expansion, acquisitions and related costs, restructuring and related costs, 36 headquarters acquisition and related costs, settlements, impairments, contract renewal rate, capital structure, contractual obligations, legal proceedings and claims, our database, database growth, services and facilities, employee relations, future economic performance, our ability to liquidate or realize our long-term investments, managements plans, goals and objectives for future operations, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,