Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. See Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2. for additional factors relating to such statements, and see Risk Factors in Item 1A. of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytic and marketing services to the commercial real estate industry in the U.S. and the U.K. based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate the leading online marketplace for commercial real estate in the U.S. based on the number of unique visitors per month, provide more information, analytic and marketing services than any of our competitors and believe that we generate more revenues than any of our competitors. We have created and compiled a standardized information, analytics and marketing platform where members of the commercial real estate and related business community can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently exchanging accurate and standardized commercial real estate information. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, tenant information, information about properties for sale, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. Our subsidiary, LoopNet, Inc. (LoopNet), operates an online marketplace that enables commercial real estate agents, working on behalf of property owners and landlords, to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants also use LoopNet's online marketplace to search for available property listings that meet their commercial real estate criteria. We also provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our Property and Portfolio Research, Inc. (PPR) service offerings, portfolio and debt management and reporting capabilities through our Resolve Technology, Inc. (Resolve Technology) service offerings, and real estate management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our Virtual Premise, Inc. (Virtual Premise) service offerings. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, industrial, retail, land, mixed-use, hospitality and multifamily. Expansion and Development We expect to continue to develop and distribute new services, expand existing services within our current platform, integrate, coordinate and cross-sell existing services, and expand and develop our sales and marketing organization. For example, new modules, or tools, and services that we are currently developing and expect to introduce to customers include Lease COMPS, a database of comparable lease transactions; a mobile platform for delivery of Virtual Premise's real estate management service; a multi-family data and analytics service from PPR; and PPR's CompassFLEX, a customizable analytic tool for evaluation of various credit scenarios. Our expansion initiatives also include continued development of CoStarGo , and enhancements to our core information services, including our suite of online services. On August 15, 2011, we launched CoStarGo in the U.S. CoStarGo is an iPad application that integrates our comprehensive property, tenant and comparable sales information from our suite of online products - CoStar Property Professional , CoStar Tenant and CoStar COMPS Professional . We supported the launch with an extensive marketing campaign during the third quarter of 2011, including a 34-city national launch tour to drive early adoption of the service. We are also integrating, developing and cross-selling the services offered by the companies we have most recently acquired, including LoopNet, Virtual Premise, Resolve Technology and PPR. Our sales and marketing efforts are and will continue to be focused on cross-selling and marketing our services. We recently launched a new sales and marketing campaign directed at cross-selling of CoStar services to LoopNet customers and LoopNet services to CoStar customers, which includes additional marketing of CoStarGo. We expect to incur significant, additional expenses associated with this sales and marketing campaign during the third and fourth quarters of 2012. We anticipate that these initiatives will position the company for revenue growth in 2013 and beyond. Our investments in LoopNet, Virtual Premise, Resolve Technology, and PPR have increased, and may continue to increase, our expenses, however our revenues have also increased as a result of these acquisitions, due to cross-selling opportunities among the customers of CoStar and acquired companies. 27 In addition, we expect to continue our efforts to integrate the combined capabilities of CoStar's property and market-level information and PPR's analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technology's real estate investment software expertise. We also plan to continue efforts to integrate Virtual Premise's real estate management solutions with CoStar's business. These integration efforts include providing additional tools that make our research and analytics even more valuable to subscribers. For example, we are developing a lease discounted cash flow (LDCF) forecasting and valuation solution that effectively integrates the combined capabilities of CoStar's property and market-level information and PPR's analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technology's and Virtual Premise's commercial real estate investment and management software expertise. One of our newest initiatives under development is an enhanced platform called CoStar Fusion that will combine and deliver multiple services, including the CoStar Suite services: Property Professional, COMPS and Tenant, analytics from PPR, and financial tools in a fully integrated service. We intend to launch CoStar Fusion as a premium offering and we believe it could become a revenue driver for CoStar in the future. In order to implement these initiatives, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional costs. We will also continue to offer our core products and services individually. We also intend to continue to expand the coverage of our service offerings within our International segment and to integrate our International operations more fully with those in the U.S. We intend to introduce a consistent international platform of service offerings by the end of 2012. As part of our integration efforts, in 2007, we introduced the CoStar Group as the brand encompassing our international operations, and in early 2010, we launched Showcase, our Internet marketing service that provides commercial real estate professionals high quality internet lead generation, in the U.K. We expect to introduce CoStarGo, our iPad application, CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional, and CoStar Tenant in the U.K. by the end of 2012. Additionally, we have upgraded our back-end research operations, fulfillment and CRM systems to support these new U.K. services. In order to implement these services in the U.K., we have incurred, and expect to incur increased development costs. We believe that our continued investments in U.S. products, internationalization of our products and integration efforts have created a platform for long-term growth, which we intend to continue to develop, invest in and expand. Any future product development or expansion of services could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Therefore, while we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings throughout 2012 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, it is possible that any new investments could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. LoopNet Acquisition On April 30, 2012, we completed the acquisition of LoopNet. The acquisition combines the marketing solutions offered by LoopNet with the research capabilities of CoStar. We expect the acquisition will create efficiencies in operations and provide more opportunities for the combined company's customers. To acquire LoopNet, we paid stock and cash consideration with an aggregate value of approximately $883.4 million . The LoopNet transaction was subject to customary closing conditions, including expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976 (the HSR Act). On April 26, 2012, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) accepted a consent order previously agreed to by LoopNet and CoStar. The consent order was subject to a 30-day public comment period which has passed, but the consent order remains subject to final acceptance by the FTC. The consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at www.ftc.gov, requires, among other things, that CoStar and LoopNet divest LoopNet's minority interest in Xceligent, Inc. (Xceligent). On March 28, 2012, CoStar and LoopNet entered into a Purchase Agreement to sell LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMG Information, Inc. (DMGI). The parties closed the sale of LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMGI on May 3, 2012. In addition, the consent order also requires us to maintain certain business practices that the FTC believes will promote competition. For example, the consent order requires us to maintain our customary practice of selling our products separately and on a market-by-market basis. It also requires us to license our products to customers who have bought our competitors' products on a non-discriminatory basis, which we have always done in the past. In addition, we are required to maintain our customary licensing practices with respect to the length of our contracts, to allow customers with multi-year contracts to cancel with one year's advance notice, and to agree to reduce the cost of any litigation with customers by offering to arbitrate certain disputes. 28 We funded the cash portion of the consideration payable to LoopNet stockholders in the merger through a combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million from an equity offering we completed in June 2011 and the proceeds of a $175.0 million term loan facility available to us under a credit agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement), dated February 16, 2012, by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc. (CoStar Realty), as co-borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (J.P. Morgan Bank), as administrative agent, and the other lenders thereto. We plan to continue to assess any plans for additional investments in our business in the foreseeable future. At this time, as discussed above, we expect to continue to develop and distribute new services within our current platform. While we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, providing substantial cash flow for our business, the costs associated with our merger with LoopNet and the integration of our two businesses has reduced and is likely to continue to reduce our profitability and has caused and could continue to cause us to generate losses. Further, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow, which may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. Market Conditions There continue to be clear signs of improving conditions in the commercial real estate industry, including above average leasing activity and positive net absorption of office space. However, the extent and duration of continued improvement in the economy and the commercial real estate industry is unknown. Improvements in the commercial real estate industry are largely dependent upon employment trends, which drive demand for real estate space. Continuing risks related to lower than expected job growth, government fiscal challenges and uncertainty over U.S. and global economic issues may impede the ability and willingness of clients to purchase services from us or result in reductions of services purchased. In some cases, the business operations of some of our clients continue to be negatively affected by challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and the world, resulting at times in business consolidations and, in some circumstances, business failure. If cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at reduced rates. We compete against many other commercial real estate information, analytic and marketing service providers for business. If customers choose to cancel our services for cost-cutting or other reasons, our revenue could decline. Financial Matters Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. We also believe it is important to evaluate our operating results before and after the effect of currency changes, as it may provide a more accurate comparison of our results of operations over historical periods. Currency exchange rate volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and period-to-period comparisons of our consolidated operations. We currently issue stock options and/or restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations. We plan to continue the use of stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock option grants that typically will require us to record compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. 29 Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional and FOCUS services. CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. Our subscription-based services consist of similar services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, geography and the number of services to which a client subscribes. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. We recognize this revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. For the twelve months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 , our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services was approximately 94% and 92% , respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate for those services was approximately 6% and 8% , respectively, for the same periods of time. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, further reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of June 30, 2012 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of contractual cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. 30 The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents our estimate of the yield expected by a market participant on these securities. The average discount rate used as of June 30, 2012 was approximately 5.4% . Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of June 30, 2012 , we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $2.7 million . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of June 30, 2012 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Fair Value of Deferred Consideration As of June 30, 2012 , we held Level 3 liabilities for deferred consideration acquired as a result of the April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. The deferred consideration totaled $2.1 million as of June 30, 2012 and included potential deferred cash payments resulting from acquisitions completed by LoopNet in 2010 including: (i) potential deferred cash payments due to the sellers of LandsofAmerica.com, LLC ("LandsofAmerica") on March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014 based on LandsofAmerica's achievement of financial and operational milestones; and (ii) potential deferred cash payments due to the sellers of Reaction Corp. ("Reaction Web") on March 31, 2013 and March 31, 2014 based on Reaction Web's achievement of revenue milestones. As of June 30, 2011 , we held Level 3 liabilities for deferred consideration related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. The deferred consideration totaled $2.8 million as of June 30, 2011 and included (i) a potential deferred cash payment two years after closing based on the incremental growth of Resolve Technology's revenue, and (ii) other potential deferred cash payments for successful completion of operational and sales milestones during the period from closing through October 31, 2013, which period was subject to extension by the parties to a date no later than December 31, 2014. On June 24, 2011, we made a payment to the seller of Resolve Technology of $500,000 as a result of the successful completion of one of the operational milestones. On September 8, 2011, we entered into an agreement to settle all remaining potential deferred cash payments due under the acquisition agreement. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we made a payment of $1.6 million on September 14, 2011 to settle the entire obligation. We reversed the remaining $1.2 million of deferred consideration as a reduction to general and administrative expense during the three months ended September 30, 2011. We use a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our Level 3 liabilities. The significant assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model included the discount rate and probabilities for completion of financial and operational milestones. The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model used to determine the estimated fair value of our Level 3 liabilities is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents LoopNet's cost of equity at the time of each transaction plus a margin for counterparty risk. The average discount rate used as of June 30, 2012 was approximately 23.5% . Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the deferred consideration. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimated the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of our stock price. 31 We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the six months ended June 30, 2012 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows of the carrying amounts of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, U.S. and International, as our reporting units under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. To determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test, we first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then we perform the two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our future financial performance and a weighted average cost of capital. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We measure impairment loss based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2011, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2011 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. 32 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income (loss). In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income (loss) the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income (loss) or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income (loss). In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual and Quarterly Reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 24 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytic and marketing services, which has included acquisitions, our net income (loss) has included significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs and restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. 33 Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base and the diminishing value of any acquired trade names. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of net interest income (expense) we generate (incur) may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows or outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of net interest income (expense) to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense (benefit) may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense (benefit) to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, net, and income tax expense (benefit) as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquisition. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the overlapping rent and building carrying costs, legal costs and other related costs incurred to relocate our headquarters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. 34 The financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are purchase amortization and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters' acquisition- and transition-related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA along with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss). We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2011, we assumed a 40% tax rate, and in 2012, we assume a 38% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income (loss) and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2012 2011 2012 2011 Net income (loss) $ (6,710 ) $ 2,637 $ (1,578 ) $ 7,169 Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 2,158 308 2,580 615 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 3,580 546 4,214 1,089 Depreciation and other amortization 2,446 2,354 4,710 4,936 Interest expense (income), net 1,069 (178 ) 819 (380 ) Income tax expense, net 5,628 1,450 9,348 4,216 EBITDA $ 8,171 $ 7,117 $ 20,093 $ 17,645 Cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 24,197 $ 7,598 $ 30,578 $ 15,284 Investing activities (634,811 ) (3,915 ) (636,578 ) 73,899 Financing activities 164,873 251,659 164,059 251,934 Comparison of Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 and Three Months Ended June 30, 2011 Revenues. Revenues increased to $85.2 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $62.1 million in the second quarter of 2011 . The $23.1 million increase was primarily attributable to the additional revenue of approximately $13.2 million from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet as well as further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin. Gross margin increased to $57.1 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $39.7 million in the second quarter of 2011 . The gross margin percentage increased to 66.9% in the second quarter of 2012 from 63.9% in the second quarter of 2011 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $28.2 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $22.4 million in the second quarter of 2011 . The increase in the cost of revenues was principally due to the additional cost of revenues from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $20.0 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $14.3 million in the second quarter of 2011 , and slightly increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.5% in the second quarter of 2012 from 23.0% in the second quarter of 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the additional selling and marketing expenses from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. 35 Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $8.0 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $5.1 million in the second quarter of 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 9.4% in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 8.3% in the second quarter of 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expenses was primarily due to the additional software development expenses from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $25.5 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $15.8 million in the second quarter of 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 29.9% in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 25.5% in the second quarter of 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the additional general and administrative expenses from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization increased to approximately $3.6 million in the second quarter of 2012 compared to approximately $546,000 in the second quarter of 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenue to 4.2% in the second quarter of 2012 compared to 0.9% in the second quarter of 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was due to the additional purchase amortization expenses from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Interest and Other Income (Expense), net. Interest and other income (expense), net changed to approximately $1.1 million expense in the second quarter of 2012 compared to approximately $178,000 income in the second quarter of 2011 . The change was primarily due to the interest expense for the term loan facility incurred in the second quarter of 2012 . Income Tax Expense, net. Income tax expense, net increased to $5.6 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $1.5 million in the second quarter of 2011 . This increase was primarily due to costs related to the LoopNet acquisition that reduce income from operations but are not deductible for tax purposes. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended June 30, 2012 and Three Months Ended June 30, 2011 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being the United States (U.S.) and International, which includes the United Kingdom ("U.K.") and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. U.S. revenues increased to $80.5 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $57.5 million in the second quarter of 2011 . This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to the additional revenue of approximately $13.2 million from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet as well as further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. International revenues slightly increased to $4.8 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $4.6 million in the second quarter of 2011 . Intersegment revenue increased to approximately $423,000 in the second quarter of 2012 , compared to approximately $224,000 in the second quarter of 2011 . Intersegment revenue is attributable to services performed for our wholly owned subsidiary, PPR, by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount we believe approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA increased to $10.4 million in the second quarter of 2012 from $8.3 million in the second quarter of 2011 . The increase in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to an increase in revenues in the second quarter of 2012 from the second quarter of 2011 . International EBITDA decreased to a higher loss of approximately $2.2 million in the second quarter of 2012 from a loss of approximately $1.1 million in the second quarter of 2011 . This higher loss was primarily due to increased personnel costs for the second quarter of 2012 compared to the second quarter of 2011 . International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $1.4 million and $100,000 for each of the three months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. 36 Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2012 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 Revenues. Revenues increased to $153.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $121.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The $32.1 million increase was primarily attributable to further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates as well as the additional revenue of approximately $13.2 million from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $101.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $76.8 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The gross margin percentage increased to 65.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from 63.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was due to an increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $52.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $45.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The increase in the cost of revenues was principally due to the additional cost of revenues of approximately $5.3 million from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions as well as an increase in research personnel costs of approximately $2.5 million. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $35.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $27.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.1% for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , compared to 22.6% for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the additional selling and marketing expenses of approximately $5.2 million from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions as well as an increase in sales personnel costs of approximately $2.7 million. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $13.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $10.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 , and remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenues at 8.4% for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , compared to 8.5% for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The increase in the amount of software development expenses was primarily due to the additional software development expenses from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $40.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $26.7 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 26.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , compared to 22.0% for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the additional general and administrative expenses of approximately $7.6 million from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions and approximately $2.1 million in personnel costs. Purchase Amortization . Purchase amortization increased to approximately $4.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , compared to approximately $1.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 , and increased as a percentage of revenue to 2.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , compared to 0.9% for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The increase in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was due to additional purchase amortization expenses from our 2011 and 2012 acquisitions. Interest and Other Income (Expense), net . Interest and other income (expense), net changed to approximately $819,000 expense for the six months ended June 30, 2012 compared to approximately $380,000 income for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The change was primarily due to the interest expense for the term loan facility incurred in the six months ended June 30, 2012 . Income Tax Expense, net . Income tax expense, net increased to $9.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $4.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . This increase was primarily due to costs related to the LoopNet acquisition that reduce income from operations but are not deductible for tax purposes. 37 Comparison of Business Segment Results for Six Months Ended June 30, 2012 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2011 Segment Revenues . U.S. revenues increased to $144.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $112.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates as well as the additional revenue of approximately $13.2 million from our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. International revenues slightly increased to $9.4 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 from $9.2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . Intersegment revenue increased to approximately $766,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , compared to approximately $478,000 for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . Intersegment revenue is attributable to services performed for our wholly owned subsidiary, PPR, by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount we believe approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA . U.S. EBITDA increased to $23.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from $19.6 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . The increase in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to an increase in revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2012 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2011 . International EBITDA decreased to a higher loss of approximately $3.5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , from a loss of approximately $2.0 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . This higher loss was primarily due to the increased personnel costs for the six months ended June 30, 2012 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2011 . International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $2.2 million and $100,000 for each of the six months ended June 30, 2012 and 2011 , respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments decreased to $104.2 million as of June 30, 2012 compared to $548.8 million as of December 31, 2011 . The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the six months ended June 30, 2012 was primarily due to the net cash paid for our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Changes in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises, purchases and sales of short-term investments and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2012 was approximately $30.6 million compared to approximately $15.3 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . This $15.3 million increase in net cash providing by operating activities was mostly related to an increase of approximately $21.6 million in net income plus non-cash items primarily due to increased net deferred tax assets associated with our April 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in cash associated with increased payments of acquisition costs related to our LoopNet acquisition in 2012. Net cash used in investing activities changed by approximately $710.5 million . The $636.6 million cash used in the six months ended June 30, 2012 was primarily due to $640.9 million of cash used for the acquisition of LoopNet on April 30, 2012 and purchases of property and equipment of approximately $6.1 million , partially offset by the proceeds from the sale and settlements of investments of approximately $10.5 million . Proceeds from the sale and settlements of investments included $4.2 million in proceeds for the sale of LoopNet's minority interest in Xceligent. The $73.9 million cash provided by investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2011 was primarily due to cash provided from the sale of our headquarters in Washington DC which occurred in February 2011 and did not recur in the six months ended June 30, 2012 . Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $164.1 million for the six months ended June 30, 2012 , compared to approximately $251.9 million for the six months ended June 30, 2011 . This $87.9 million decrease in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to the equity offering completed in June 2011 which did not recur in 2012, partially offset by the proceeds of $175.0 million received from the term loan facility in April 2012 less payments of debt issuance costs associated with the debt which did not occur in 2011. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. During the six months ended June 30, 2012 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $6.1 million . We expect to make aggregate capital expenditures in 2012 of approximately $15.0 million to $20.0 million. 38 To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. On October 25, 2011, we acquired Virtual Premise, a Software as a Service (SaaS) provider of real estate information management solutions located in Atlanta, Georgia. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement, we paid approximately $17.2 million in cash, approximately 80% of which was paid on the closing date and the remaining 20% of which was held in escrow for approximately 270 days after the closing date. The funds held in escrow were subject to the prior use of such funds to satisfy any post-closing net working capital adjustments or indemnification claims made prior to the date the funds were released. The purchase price was reduced by approximately $200,000 after taking into account post-closing purchase price adjustments and this amount was paid to us from the escrow fund on March 1, 2012. The remaining escrowed funds were released to the former Virtual Premise stockholders on July 23, 2012. On April 30, 2012, we acquired LoopNet pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 27, 2011, as amended May 20, 2011 (the Merger Agreement). Prior to completion of the LoopNet acquisition on April 26, 2012 the FTC accepted a consent order previously agreed to by CoStar and LoopNet. The consent order was subject to a 30-day public comment period which has passed, but the consent order remains subject to final acceptance by the FTC. The consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at www.ftc.gov, requires, among other things, that CoStar and LoopNet divest LoopNet's minority interest in Xceligent. On March 28, 2012, CoStar and LoopNet entered into a Purchase Agreement to sell LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMGI. The parties closed the sale of LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMGI on May 3, 2012. We received $4.2 million in proceeds from the sale, which reflected the fair value of the investment at the time of sale and did not result in any gain on the sale of the investment for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012. We funded the cash portion of the consideration payable to LoopNet stockholders in the merger through a combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million from an equity offering we completed in June 2011, and $175.0 million in proceeds from a term loan facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated February 16, 2012, by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty, as co-borrower, J.P. Morgan Bank, as administrative agent, and the other lenders thereto. The original commitment letter from J.P. Morgan Bank received on April 27, 2011 for a fully committed term loan of $415.0 million and a $50.0 million revolving credit facility, was terminated on April 30, 2012 upon closing of the term loan facility. We have made principal payments of approximately $2.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 . Maturities of our borrowings for each of the next five years as of June 30, 2012 are expected to be $10.9 million , $19.7 million , $28.4 million , $43.8 million and $70.0 million for the years ended June 30, 2013 to 2017, respectively. The Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a Debt Service Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of at least 1.5 to 1.0 and a Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) not exceeding 3.25 to 1.00 during the first two full fiscal quarters after the closing date, 3.00 to 1.00 during the third and fourth full fiscal quarters after the closing date, 2.75 to 1.00 during the period from the fifth to the eighth full fiscal quarters after the closing date and 2.50 to 1.00 thereafter. These financial covenants are effective beginning with the first full fiscal quarter commencing after the closing date which will be our third quarter of 2012. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants that were effective as of April 30, 2012, including covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries (i) to incur additional indebtedness, (ii) to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any liens, (iii) to enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions, (iv) to make investments and acquisitions, (v) to make certain dispositions of assets, (vi) to make dividends, distributions and prepayments of certain indebtedness, and (vii) to enter into certain transactions with affiliates. Commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, the Credit Agreement requires us to make an annual prepayment of the term loan facility equal to a percentage of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to reduce the principal amount outstanding under its term loan facility. The repayment percentage is 50% when the Total Leverage Ratio exceeds 3.00 to 1.00; 25% when the Total Leverage Ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00 but equal to or less than 3.00 to 1.00; and 0% when the Total Leverage Ratio is equal to or less than 2.50 to 1.00. This repayment requirement is reduced by the amount of prior voluntary prepayments during the respective fiscal year, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement. The Excess Cash Flow payment, if required, is due within ten business days of the date on which the annual financial statements are delivered or required to be delivered to the lenders pursuant to the Credit Agreement. In connection with obtaining the term loan facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, we incurred approximately $11.5 million in debt issuance costs, which are capitalized and amortized as interest expense over the term of the Credit Agreement using the effective interest method. The debt issuance costs are comprised of approximately $9.2 million in underwriting fees and approximately $2.3 million primarily related to legal fees associated with the debt issuance. 39 As of June 30, 2012 , no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Total interest expense for the term loan facility was approximately $1.2 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 , respectively. Included in interest expense was amortized debt issuance costs of $472,000 for the three and six months ended June 30, 2012 . The Company recorded no interest expense for the three and six months ended June 30, 2011 . Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, we are required to make interest payments on the term loan facility at a variable rate of interest and during interest periods selected by us as described in Note 8 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of June 30, 2012 , we had $28.5 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the FFELP of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investments below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. As described in Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, on January 3, 2012, LoopNet, our wholly owned subsidiary, was sued by CIVIX-DDI, LLC (Civix) in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia for alleged infringement of U.S. Patent Nos. 6,385,622 and 6,415,291. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On February 16, 2012, LoopNet filed an answer to Civixs complaint and filed counterclaims against Civix seeking, among other things, declaratory relief that the asserted patents are invalid, not infringed, and that Civix committed inequitable conduct during the prosecution and re-examination of the asserted patents. On February 21, 2012, Civix filed a motion to dismiss and strike LoopNets counterclaims. LoopNet opposed the motion, and the motion was fully briefed and submitted to the court on March 8, 2012. The district court has not ruled on the motion. On March 22, 2012, the district court scheduled trial for November 2012. Discovery has begun in the case and the parties have made initial disclosures as required by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure. On or about May 14, 2012, Civix filed a motion for leave to amend its complaint against LoopNet in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia seeking to add CoStar as a defendant, alleging that our products also infringe Civix's patents. We filed a motion opposing Civix's motion, and on June 21, 2012, the district court denied Civix's motion to amend its complaint. On June 21, 2012, we filed an action in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois seeking a declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity against Civix. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of either case against Civix, but we intend to vigorously defend ourself against Civix's claims. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no developments to the Recent Accounting Pronouncements discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 , including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated financial statements, except for the following: In May 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to develop common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This guidance clarifies the intent of the existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and modifies principles and requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurement. This guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require changes to the disclosures in our interim financial statements. 40 In June 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. This guidance requires changes in stockholders equity to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components followed consecutively by a second statement that should present total other comprehensive income, the components of other comprehensive income and the total of comprehensive income. This guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require the addition of the condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our press releases and conference calls that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2012 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions about our revenues, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, net income (loss) per share, fully diluted net income (loss) per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, combined financial metrics related to the LoopNet acquisition, the anticipated benefits of the LoopNet merger, the timing of future payments of principal under our Credit Agreement, expectations regarding our compliance with financial and restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement, taxable income, cash flow from operating activities, available cash, operating costs, amortization expense, intangible asset recovery, capital and other expenditures, effective tax rate, equity compensation charges, future taxable income, purchase amortization, financing plans, geographic expansion, product development, acquisitions, contract renewal rate, capital structure, contractual obligations, legal proceedings and claims, our database, database growth, services and facilities, employee relations, future economic performance, our ability to liquidate or realize our long-term investments, management's plans, goals and objectives for future operations, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,