Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. See Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2. for additional factors relating to such statements, and see Risk Factors in Item 1A. of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytics and marketing services to the commercial real estate industry in the United States ("U.S.") and the United Kingdom ("U.K.") based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate the leading online marketplace for commercial real estate in the U.S. based on the number of unique visitors per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors and believe that we generate more revenues than any of our competitors. We have created and compiled our standardized information, analytics and marketing platform where members of the commercial real estate and related business community can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently exchanging accurate and standardized commercial real estate information. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, tenant information, information about properties for sale, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. LoopNet, our subsidiary, operates an online marketplace that enables property owners, landlords, and commercial real estate agents working on their behalf to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants also use LoopNet's online marketplace to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. We also provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our Property and Portfolio Research (PPR) service offerings, portfolio and debt management and reporting capabilities through our Resolve Technology service offerings, and real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our Virtual Premise service offerings. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, industrial, retail, land, mixed-use, hospitality and multifamily. Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Suite and FOCUS services. CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional , CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStarGo . CoStar Suite is our primary service offering in the U.S. operating segment. FOCUS is our primary service offering in the International operating segment. Additionally, we introduced CoStar Suite in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2012. Our subscription-based services consist primarily of similar services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, geography and the number of services to which a client subscribes. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. 24 As of September 30, 2013 and 2012 , our annualized net new sales of subscription-based services on annual contracts were approximately $13.7 million and $9.3 million , respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from new annual subscription-based contracts or upsales on existing annual subscription-based contracts, less write downs and cancellations, for the period reported. We recognize subscription revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services was approximately 93% and 94% , respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate for those services was approximately 7% and 6% , respectively, for the same time periods. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if, among other reasons, negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Expansion and Development We expect to continue to develop and distribute new services, improve existing services, integrate products and services, cross-sell existing services, and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. We are also committed to supporting and improving our existing core information, analytic and marketing services. We currently intend to increase the size of our field sales force to support sales and marketing of our existing, new and enhanced services. In October 2013, we introduced significant technology enhancements to CoStar Suite, our platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant. The enhancements provide improvements to the user interface, search functionality and reporting and analytic capabilities, as well as integrated workflow tools that provide our clients with greater functionality. These enhancements allow clients to leverage the information available in our comprehensive database in multiple ways, and include the CoStar Lease Analysis TM tool and CoStar Multifamily TM information. We believe this greater functionality will make our services valuable to an even broader audience and we believe we will increase our penetration with brokers, banks, owners and institutional investors. Further, these technology enhancements are expected to drive continued revenue growth in 2014 and for the foreseeable future. Selling and marketing activities will be aligned with our new product enhancements resulting in increased expenses commencing towards the end of the fourth quarter of 2013 with the majority of these expenses to be incurred during the first quarter of 2014. Further, in October 2013, we released CoStarGo 2.0, the next generation of our mobile application, which was launched in the U.S. on August 15, 2011 and introduced in the U.K. on November 5, 2012. CoStarGo is our iPad application that integrates and provides mobile access to subscribers of our comprehensive property, tenant and comparable sales information from CoStar Suite. CoStarGo 2.0 combines mobile access to the information from CoStar Suite with a fully integrated set of customizable property and market analysis tools. In addition, we expect to continue our efforts to integrate the combined capabilities of CoStar's property and market-level information and PPR's analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technology's real estate investment software expertise. We also plan to continue efforts to integrate CoStar's business with Virtual Premise's real estate and lease management solutions. These integration efforts include providing additional tools that make our research and analytics even more valuable to subscribers. In order to implement these initiatives, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, additional costs. We also expect to continue to offer our core products and services individually. We continue to integrate, develop and cross-sell the services offered by the companies we acquired most recently, including LoopNet, Virtual Premise, Resolve Technology and PPR. In some cases, when integrating and coordinating our services and assessing industry needs, we may decide, or may have previously decided, to combine, shift focus from, de-emphasize, phase out, or eliminate a service that overlaps or is redundant with other services we offer. 25 Our sales and marketing efforts have been and will continue to be focused on cross-selling and marketing our services. For example, after the acquisition of LoopNet, we launched a sales and marketing campaign directed at cross-selling CoStar's information services to LoopNet customers and cross-selling LoopNet's marketing services to CoStar customers. We recently implemented an automatic cross-selling initiative within the LoopNet marketplace. As searchers view properties within the LoopNet marketplace, a message may appear indicating that there are additional listings available within CoStar Suite with the same search criteria that they are not able to access under their current subscription. The message provides contact information, so that the customer can reach their customer service or sales representative and review the most appropriate service for their needs. Our goal is to upsell clients to the services that best meet their needs and to create further cross-selling revenue synergies. In addition, we have added a comparison feature to CoStarGo, which allows our sales force to demonstrate how many more properties a prospect could see with respect to a particular search area if that prospect were using CoStar rather than the prospects current subscription with LoopNet. As a result of the cross selling of CoStar's and LoopNet's complementary services, we began to achieve increased revenue synergies in 2013. We incurred increased expenses associated with the marketing and sales campaign in 2012 and during the first half of 2013. These initiatives have resulted in revenue growth, and we anticipate that these initiatives will continue to position the company for revenue growth during the remainder of 2013 and for the foreseeable future. In addition, our investments in LoopNet, Virtual Premise, Resolve Technology, and PPR have increased, and may continue to increase; however our revenues have also increased as a result of these acquisitions, due to revenue from the acquired businesses, as well as our ability to take advantage of cross-selling opportunities among the customers of CoStar and the acquired companies. We continue to integrate our international operations more fully with those in the U.S. Previously, as part of our integration efforts, in 2007, we introduced the CoStar Group as the brand encompassing our international operations, and in early 2010, we launched Showcase, our internet marketing service that provides commercial real estate professionals high quality internet lead generation, in the U.K. In addition, we intend to continue to upgrade the platform of services and expand the coverage of our service offerings within our International segment. To further develop those initiatives, we introduced CoStar Suite in the U.K. during the fourth quarter of 2012. CoStar Suite is sold as a consistent international platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through the Company's mobile application, CoStarGo. We believe the product launch has been well received and a significant marketing and sales effort is currently in progress. CoStarGo 2.0 was released in the U.K. in October 2013 simultaneous with the release in the U.S. Additionally, we have upgraded our back-end research operations, fulfillment and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems to support these new U.K. services. In order to implement these services in the U.K., we incurred increased development costs through 2012; however, development costs incurred by the International segment have decreased in 2013. In 2014, we expect to expand further internationally by offering services in Toronto, Canada. We believe that our continued investments in U.S. and international products, internationalization of our U.S. products and integration efforts have created a platform for long-term revenue growth. We expect these investments, including the expansion of coverage of our international service offerings, to result in further penetration of our international subscription-based information services and the successful cross-selling of our services to customers in existing markets. We intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business, in addition to the investments discussed above in order to develop and distribute new services within our current platform. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Therefore, while we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings in 2013 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, it is possible that any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Further, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow, which may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. LoopNet Acquisition On April 30, 2012, we completed the acquisition of LoopNet, which is included within our U.S. operating segment. The acquisition combines the research capabilities of CoStar with the marketing solutions offered by LoopNet. The acquisition has created efficiencies in operations resulting in the elimination of redundant expenses and the achievement of expected cost synergies in 2013. We expect the acquisition will continue to create efficiencies in operations and provide greater tools for the combined company's customers. To acquire LoopNet, we paid stock and cash consideration with an aggregate value of approximately $883.4 million as of the closing date. 26 We funded the cash portion of the consideration payable to LoopNet stockholders in the merger through a combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million from an equity offering we completed in June 2011 and the proceeds of a $175.0 million term loan facility available to us under a credit agreement (as amended, the Credit Agreement), dated February 16, 2012, by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc. (CoStar Realty), as co-borrower, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (J.P. Morgan Bank), as administrative agent, and the other lenders thereto. Prior to completion of the LoopNet acquisition, on April 26, 2012, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) accepted a consent order in connection with the LoopNet merger that was previously agreed to by LoopNet and CoStar. The consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at www.ftc.gov, requires us to maintain certain business practices that the FTC believes will promote competition. For example, the consent order requires us to maintain our customary practice of selling our products separately and on a market-by-market basis. It also requires us to license our products to customers who have bought our competitors' products on a non-discriminatory basis, which we have always done in the past. In addition, we are required to maintain our customary licensing practices with respect to the length of our contracts, to allow customers with multi-year contracts to cancel with one year's advance notice, and to agree to reduce the cost of any litigation with customers by offering to arbitrate certain disputes. While, as discussed above, we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, providing substantial cash flow for our business, costs associated with the integration of CoStar and LoopNet's businesses could reduce our profitability. Market Conditions In general, the current economic recovery has been slower than past economic recoveries. Job growth, in particular, has recovered more slowly than in past economic recoveries, and as a result, the improvement in the commercial real estate industry has been slower, especially with respect to the rental rate growth. Continuing near-term risks related to lower-than-expected job growth, government fiscal challenges, and uncertainty over U.S. and global economic issues may impede the ability and willingness of clients to purchase services from us or result in reductions of services purchased. Additionally, since many of our clients use debt to finance a portion of their real estate purchases, material changes in interest rates and risk premiums could harm their ability to complete transactions, especially if the change was relatively rapid and unexpected. As is typical of this point in the economic cycle, business consolidations, and in some circumstances, business failures, continue to occur. If cancellations, reductions of services, and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at lower rates. We compete against many other commercial real estate information, analytics, and marketing service providers for business, including competitors that offer rapidly changing methods of delivering real estate information. If customers choose to cancel our services because of cost cutting, desire to access real estate information through other delivery methods, or other reasons, our revenue could decline. Financial Matters Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. We also believe it is important to evaluate our operating results before and after the effect of currency changes, as it may provide a more accurate comparison of our results of operations over historical periods. Currency exchange rate volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and period-to-period comparisons of our consolidated operations. We currently issue stock options and/or restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The amount and timing of the compensation expense that we record depends on the amount and types of equity grants made. We plan to continue the use of stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock option grants that typically will require us to record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. 27 In February 2012, the Compensation Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors approved grants of restricted common stock to our executive officers that vest based on the achievement of CoStar performance conditions. Specifically, these shares of performance-based restricted common stock vest upon our achievement of $90.0 million of cumulative net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") over a period of four consecutive calendar quarters, and are subject to forfeiture in the event the foregoing performance condition is not met by March 31, 2017. These awards support the Committees goals of aligning executive incentives with long-term stockholder value and ensuring that executive officers have a continuing stake in the long-term success of CoStar. In May and December of 2012, we granted additional shares of restricted common stock that vest based on the achievement of the same performance conditions to other key employees. We granted a total of 399,413 shares of performance-based restricted common stock during the year ended December 31, 2012. All of the awards were made under the CoStar Group, Inc. 2007 Stock Incentive Plan and pursuant to our standard form of restricted stock grant agreement. As of September 30, 2013 , we reassessed the probability of achieving the performance condition for the performance-based restricted common stock awards issued in 2012 and determined that it was still probable that the performance condition for these awards would be met by the March 31, 2017 forfeiture date. As a result, we recorded a total of approximately $3.1 million and $0 of stock-based compensation expense related to the performance-based restricted common stock for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We recorded a total of approximately $17.5 million and $0 of stock-based compensation expense related to the performance-based restricted common stock for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. We expect to record an additional estimated unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to the performance-based restricted common stock of approximately $6.2 million during the remainder of 2013 and in 2014. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently actively trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of September 30, 2013 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of contractual cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents our estimate of the yield expected by a market participant from the ARS investments. The weighted average discount rate used in the discounted cash flow model as of September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012 was approximately 5.2% and 5.1% , respectively. Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the ARS. 28 Based on this assessment of fair value, as of September 30, 2013 , we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $1.8 million . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of September 30, 2013 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method, and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimated the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of our stock price. For equity instruments that vest based on performance, we assess the probability of the achievement of the performance conditions at the end of each reporting period, or more frequently based upon the occurrence of events that may change the probability of whether the performance conditions would be met. If our initial estimates of the achievement of the performance conditions change, the related stock-based compensation expense and timing of recognition may fluctuate from period to period based on those estimates. If the performance conditions are not met, no stock-based compensation expense will be recognized, and any previously recognized stock-based compensation expense will be reversed. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows of the carrying amounts of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, U.S. and International, as our reporting units under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. 29 To determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, growth rate and future financial performance. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about the growth rate and future financial performance of a reporting unit are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows. Our assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the International reporting unit reflect our expectation as of October 1, 2012, that in 2013 the expenses for our International reporting unit will decrease upon the completion of our initiatives to upgrade the platform of services and expand the coverage of our service offerings within our International segment by the end of 2012. Additionally, our assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the International reporting unit reflect our expectation that revenues will increase as a result of further penetration of our international subscription-based information services and the successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets due to the release of our upgraded international platform and expansion of coverage of our international service offerings. These assumptions are subject to change from period to period and could be adversely impacted by the uncertainty surrounding global market conditions, commercial real estate conditions, and the competitive environment in which we operate. Changes in these or other factors could negatively affect our reporting units' fair value and potentially result in impairment charges. Such impairment charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We measure impairment loss based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2012, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2012 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. To determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the quantitative impairment test similar to the test performed on goodwill discussed above. As of October 1, 2012, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets substantially exceeded the carrying value. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2012 that would indicate that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset may not be recoverable. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. 30 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share (also referred to as "non-GAAP EPS"). EBITDA is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 25 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytics and marketing services, which has included acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs and restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. 31 Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base and the diminishing value of any acquired trade names. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of interest expense we incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, interest expense, and income tax expense as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquisition. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. 32 The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are purchase amortization and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income. We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2012 and 2013, we assumed a 38% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Net income $ 11,052 $ 6,779 $ 16,935 $ 5,201 Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 2,954 3,027 9,007 5,607 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 3,680 4,824 11,699 9,038 Depreciation and other amortization 3,388 2,844 9,531 7,554 Interest income (52 ) (59 ) (239 ) (440 ) Interest expense 1,736 1,822 5,249 3,022 Income tax expense, net 7,034 404 10,510 9,752 EBITDA $ 29,792 $ 19,641 $ 62,692 $ 39,734 Cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 31,261 $ 25,980 $ 72,828 $ 56,558 Investing activities (6,410 ) 1,267 (15,244 ) (635,311 ) Financing activities 7,858 (1,187 ) 9,219 162,872 Comparison of Three Months Ended September 30, 2013 and Three Months Ended September 30, 2012 Revenues. Revenues increased to $112.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from $96.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The $16.3 million increase was primarily attributable to further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $80.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from $65.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The gross margin percentage increased to 71.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from 67.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was due to an increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues of approximately $842,000 primarily due to an increase in certain research personnel costs. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $23.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from $22.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 21.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to 22.9% for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the amount of selling and marketing expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2013 was primarily due to an increase of stock-based compensation expense of approximately $451,000, branding initiatives of approximately $400,000 and recruiting fees resulting from initial efforts to increase the size of our field sales force of approximately $400,000. 33 Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $11.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from $9.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 10.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to 10.1% for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expenses was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support enhancements and upgrades to our products and services. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $21.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from $19.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 19.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to 20.4% for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of stock-based compensation expense. Purchase Amortization . Purchase amortization decreased to $3.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to $4.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 , and decreased as a percentage of revenue to 3.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to 5.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The decrease in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was primarily due to the accelerated amortization of the acquired customer base from our April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Interest and Other Income . Interest and other income remained relatively consistent at approximately $52,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to approximately $59,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense remained relatively consistent at $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to $1.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . Income Tax Expense, net . Income tax expense, net increased to $7.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to approximately $404,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . This increase was primarily due to higher income before income taxes as a result of our increased profitability during the three months ended September 30, 2013 and a lower effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2012 due to a change in local tax law that occurred in 2012. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended September 30, 2013 and Three Months Ended September 30, 2012 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being the U.S. and International, which includes the U.K. and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStarGo, and is our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. U.S. revenues increased to $107.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from $91.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. Additionally, we introduced CoStar Suite in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2012. International revenues increased to $5.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 from $4.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Intersegment revenue decreased to approximately $131,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to approximately $388,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . Intersegment revenue is attributable to services performed for our wholly owned subsidiary, PPR, by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount we believe approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. 34 Segment EBITDA . U.S. EBITDA increased to $30.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from $22.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in U.S. EBITDA resulted primarily from an increase in revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2013 compared to the three months ended September 30, 2012 , partially offset by an increase in personnel costs, including the stock-based compensation expense we recorded for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . International EBITDA changed to a lower loss of $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , from a loss of $3.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2012 . This lower loss was primarily due to a decrease in personnel costs. U.S. EBITDA includes an allocation of approximately $300,000 and $0 for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. This allocation represents costs incurred for International employees involved in development activities of the Company's U.S. operating segment. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $100,000 and $2.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in management and expansion activities of the Company's International operating segment. The corporate allocation for the three months ended September 30, 2012 consists primarily of development costs incurred for services of U.S. employees to upgrade the international platform of services and expand the coverage of service offerings within the International reporting unit. Comparison of Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2012 Revenues. Revenues increased to $325.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from $249.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The $75.4 million increase was primarily attributable to increased revenue of approximately $46.9 million from our April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $227.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from $166.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The gross margin percentage increased to 70.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from 66.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was due to an increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues of $14.0 million primarily due to an increase in research personnel costs of approximately $5.4 million and an increase of approximately $3.5 million in purchase amortization from our April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $74.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from $57.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 22.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to 23.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the amount of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the additional selling and marketing expenses from our April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $35.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from $22.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 10.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to 9.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expenses was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support enhancements and upgrades to our products and services. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $74.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from $59.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 22.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to 23.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to an increase of stock-based compensation expense. Purchase Amortization . Purchase amortization increased to $11.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to $9.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 , and remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenue at 3.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 . The increase in the amount of purchase amortization expense was due to additional purchase amortization expenses from our April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. 35 Interest and Other Income . Interest and other income decreased to approximately $239,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared to approximately $440,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The decrease was primarily due to our lower cash and cash equivalent balance during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to the period during the nine months ended September 30, 2012 , resulting from the net cash paid for our April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet. Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense increased to $5.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared to $3.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase was due to the additional interest expense incurred for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2012 , resulting from the $175.0 million borrowed under the term loan facility on April 30, 2012 and used to fund a portion of the merger consideration and transaction costs for the LoopNet acquisition. Income Tax Expense, net . Income tax expense, net increased to $10.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to $9.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . This increase was primarily due to higher income before income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 as a result of our increased profitability, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The higher effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 was primarily due to costs related to the LoopNet acquisition that reduced income from operations but were not deductible for tax purposes. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2012 Segment Revenues . U.S. revenues increased to $310.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from $235.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to increased revenue of approximately $46.9 million from our April 30, 2012 acquisition of LoopNet as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $14.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to $14.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Intersegment revenue decreased to approximately $277,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . Intersegment revenue is attributable to services performed for our wholly owned subsidiary, PPR, by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount we believe approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA . U.S. EBITDA increased to $66.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from $46.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . The increase in U.S. EBITDA resulted primarily from an increase in revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2012 , partially offset by an increase in personnel costs, including the stock-based compensation expense we recorded for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . International EBITDA changed to a lower loss of $3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , from a loss of $6.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . This lower loss was primarily due to a decrease in personnel costs. U.S. EBITDA includes an allocation of approximately $600,000 and $0 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. This allocation represents costs incurred for International employees involved in development activities of the Company's U.S. operating segment. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $300,000 and $4.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in management and expansion activities of the Company's International operating segment. The corporate allocation for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 consists primarily of development costs incurred for services of U.S. employees to upgrade the international platform of services and expand the coverage of service offerings within the International reporting unit. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and debt from our term loan and revolving credit facility. Total cash and cash equivalents increased to $222.9 million as of September 30, 2013 compared to cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of $156.1 million as of December 31, 2012 . The increase in cash and cash equivalents for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities of $72.8 million . 36 Changes in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises, purchases and sales of short-term investments and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was approximately $72.8 million compared to approximately $56.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . This $16.2 million increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to an increase of approximately $11.0 million in net income plus non-cash items as well as a net increase of approximately $5.2 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities due to differences in timing of collection of receipts and payments of disbursements. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was approximately $15.2 million compared to approximately $635.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . This $620.1 million decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $640.9 million of cash used for the acquisition of LoopNet on April 30, 2012, partially offset by a decrease in the proceeds from the sale and settlements of investments of approximately $14.5 million . Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $9.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 compared to approximately $162.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 . This $153.7 million decrease was primarily due to the proceeds of $175.0 million received from the term loan facility on April 30, 2012 less payments of debt issuance costs of $11.5 million associated with the debt which did not occur in 2013. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. During the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $15.3 million . We expect to make aggregate capital expenditures in 2013 of approximately $18.0 million to $22.0 million, primarily related to the build out of leased office space. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. On April 30, 2012, we acquired LoopNet pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated April 27, 2011, as amended May 20, 2011 (the Merger Agreement). Prior to completion of the LoopNet acquisition on April 26, 2012 the FTC accepted a consent order in connection with the LoopNet merger that was previously agreed to by CoStar and LoopNet. The consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at www.ftc.gov, required, among other things, that CoStar and LoopNet divest LoopNet's minority interest in Xceligent. On March 28, 2012, CoStar and LoopNet entered into a Purchase Agreement to sell LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMGI. The parties closed the sale of LoopNet's interest in Xceligent to DMGI on May 3, 2012. We received $4.2 million in proceeds from the sale, which reflected the fair value of the investment at the time of sale and did not result in any gain on the sale of the investment. We funded the cash portion of the consideration payable to LoopNet stockholders in the merger through a combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million from an equity offering we completed in June 2011, and $175.0 million in proceeds from a term loan facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, dated February 16, 2012, by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty, as co-borrower, J.P. Morgan Bank, as administrative agent, and the other lenders thereto. We made principal payments of approximately $13.1 million and $4.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. As of September 30, 2013 , maturities of our borrowings under the Credit Agreement for each of the next four years ended September 30, 2014 to 2017, are expected to be $21.9 million , $30.6 million , $52.5 million and $52.5 million , respectively. The Credit Agreement requires us to maintain a Debt Service Coverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) of at least 1.5 to 1.0 and a Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the Credit Agreement) that does not exceed 2.75 to 1.00 during each of the three months ending September 30, 2013, December 31, 2013, March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014; and 2.50 to 1.00 thereafter. The Credit Agreement also includes other covenants that were effective as of April 30, 2012, including covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries (i) to incur additional indebtedness, (ii) to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any liens, (iii) to enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions, (iv) to make investments and acquisitions, (v) to make certain dispositions of assets, (vi) to make dividends, distributions and prepayments of certain indebtedness, and (vii) to enter into certain transactions with affiliates. We were in compliance with the covenants in the Credit Agreement as of September 30, 2013 . 37 Commencing with the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, the Credit Agreement requires us to make an annual prepayment of the term loan facility equal to a percentage of Excess Cash Flow (as defined in the Credit Agreement) to reduce the principal amount outstanding under the term loan facility. The prepayment percentage is 50% when the Total Leverage Ratio exceeds 3.00 to 1.00; 25% when the Total Leverage Ratio is greater than 2.50 to 1.00 but equal to or less than 3.00 to 1.00; and 0% when the Total Leverage Ratio is equal to or less than 2.50 to 1.00. This prepayment requirement is reduced by the amount of prior voluntary prepayments during the respective fiscal year, subject to certain exceptions set forth in the Credit Agreement. The Excess Cash Flow payment, if required, is due within ten business days of the date on which the annual financial statements are delivered or required to be delivered to the lenders pursuant to the Credit Agreement. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 , we were not required to make an Excess Cash Flow payment. In connection with obtaining the term loan facility, we incurred approximately $11.5 million in debt issuance costs, which were capitalized and are being amortized as interest expense over the term of the Credit Agreement using the effective interest method. The debt issuance costs are comprised of approximately $9.2 million in underwriting fees and approximately $2.3 million primarily related to legal fees associated with the debt issuance. As of September 30, 2013 and December 31, 2012 , no amounts were outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Total interest expense for the term loan facility was approximately $1.7 million and $1.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and $5.2 million and $3.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Interest expense included amortized debt issuance costs of approximately $760,000 and $763,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and $2.3 million and $1.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, we are required to make interest payments on the term loan facility at a variable rate of interest and during interest periods selected by us as described in Note 8 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Total interest paid for the term loan facility was approximately $1.3 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively, and $3.3 million and $1.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. In 2012, we granted a total of 399,413 shares pursuant to performance-based restricted common stock awards with a forfeiture date of March 31, 2017. Upon vesting of these awards, consistent with tax withholding requirements, a portion of the shares subject to the awards will be remitted by the employees for payment of their individual income tax obligations. The shares remitted will be canceled and we will make an equivalent cash tax payment for the employees' canceled shares, currently estimated to be approximately $30.0 million. This amount is based on several assumptions, including the estimated stock price at the time of vesting as well as the individual withholding rates for the employees. If the actual stock price and individual tax rates differ from these estimates, the cash payment may change. Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of September 30, 2013 , we had $24.3 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the FFELP of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investments below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. As more fully described in Note 10 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, on January 3, 2012, LoopNet, our wholly owned subsidiary, was sued by CIVIX-DDI, LLC (Civix) for alleged patent infringement, and on or about May 14, 2012, Civix filed a motion for leave to amend its complaint against LoopNet seeking to add CoStar as a defendant, alleging that our products also infringe Civix's patents. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On June 21, 2012, we filed an action seeking a declaratory judgment of non-infringement and invalidity against Civix, which complaint has since been amended to assert an affirmative claim for breach of contract. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of the cases involving Civix, but we intend to vigorously defend ourself against Civix's claims. 38 Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no developments to the Recent Accounting Pronouncements discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 , including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated financial statements, except for the following: In July 2012, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify how companies test indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. The guidance permits a company to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that an indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test. This guidance is effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012, with early adoption permitted. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. In February 2013, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the reporting of reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income. This guidance requires a company to present, either on the consolidated statements of operations or in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income, but only if the amount reclassified is required under GAAP to be reclassified in its entirety to net income. For other amounts that are not required under GAAP to be reclassified in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures required under GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. This guidance is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2012. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. In July 2013, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the reporting of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists. This guidance requires a company to present an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward. If a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting date or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require a company to use, and a company does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be presented in the financial statements as a liability and should not be combined with deferred tax assets. This guidance is effective prospectively for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2013 with early adoption and retrospective application permitted. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or related disclosures. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our press releases and conference calls that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2013 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions about our revenues, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, net income per share, fully diluted net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, the anticipated benefits of the LoopNet merger and related cross-selling efforts, the timing of future payments of principal under our Credit Agreement, expectations regarding our compliance with financial and restrictive covenants in our Credit Agreement, taxable income, cash flow from operating activities, available cash, operating costs, amortization expense, intangible asset recovery, capital and other expenditures, effective tax rate, equity compensation charges, future taxable income, purchase amortization, financing plans, geographic expansion, product development and release, sales and marketing campaigns, product integrations, elimination and de-emphasizing of services, acquisitions, contract renewal rate, capital structure, contractual obligations, legal proceedings and claims, our database, database growth, services and facilities, employee relations, future economic performance, our ability to liquidate or realize our long-term investments, management's plans, goals and objectives for future operations, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,