Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K for additional discussion of the impact of tax reform on the business. We cannot predict the impact, if any of potential future additional changes to our business. If the current U.S. presidential administration materially modifies U.S. laws and regulations or fiscal and other tax policies, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In December 2017, the United States enacted The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), and various provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. Certain aspects of Tax Reform are unclear and may not be clarified for some time. As required by Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we have provided a provisional estimate on the effect of the Tax Act in our consolidated financial statements. However, we may be required to change our provisional estimates as a result of new accounting guidance, regulatory guidance, judicial interpretations or our continued analysis of the application of the law, which could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. In addition, if federal, state or foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws or issue new guidance, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. Our indebtedness could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility and increasing our costs . On October 19, 2017, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the 2017 Credit Agreement), which amended and restated in its entirety the existing credit agreement dated April 1, 2014 (the "2014 Credit Agreement"), by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc., as co-borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent. The 2017 Credit Agreement provides for a $750 million revolving credit facility with a term of five years from a syndicate of financial institutions as lenders and issuing banks. The 2017 Credit Agreement contains customary restrictive covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that we believe may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) create, incur, assume or permit to exist any liens, (iii) enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions, (iv) make investments and acquisitions, (v) make certain dispositions of assets, (vi) make dividends, distributions and prepayments of certain indebtedness, and (vii) enter into certain transactions with affiliates. The operating restrictions and financial covenants in the 2017 Credit Agreement and any future financing agreements may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to engage in other business activities or to respond to changes in market conditions. Our ability to comply with any financial covenants could be affected materially by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to satisfy any such requirements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we may need to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants, seek alternative or additional sources of financing or reduce our expenditures. We may be unable to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financing on a timely basis or at all, or on favorable terms. We are required to make periodic principal and interest payments pursuant to the terms of the 2017 Credit Agreement. If an event of default occurs, the interest rate on overdue amounts will increase and the lenders under the 2017 Credit Agreement may declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and may exercise remedies in respect of the collateral. We may not be able to repay all amounts due under the 2017 Credit Agreement in the event these amounts are declared due upon an event of default. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may affect the liquidity of a portion of our long-term investments. Currently, our long-term investments include mostly AAA-rated auction rate securities (ARS), which are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Continuing negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings of 33 auction rate securities because the amount of securities submitted for sale has exceeded the amount of purchase orders for such securities. As of December 31, 2017 , we held $11 million par value of ARS, all of which failed to settle at auctions. When an auction fails for ARS in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of these securities at par. In the event we need or desire to immediately access these funds, we will not be able to do so until a future auction on these investments is successful, a buyer is found outside the auction process or an alternative action is determined. If a buyer is found but is unwilling to purchase the investments at par, we may incur a loss, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. 34 Our ARS investments are not currently actively trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of December 31, 2017 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of December 31, 2017 , we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $730,000 . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and was recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of December 31, 2017 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Technical problems or disruptions that affect either our customers ability to access our services, or the software, internal applications, database and network systems underlying our services, could damage our reputation and brands and lead to reduced demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services, lower revenues and increased costs . Our business, brands and reputation depend upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, the Internet and our service providers. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, software errors, physical or electronic break-ins, or malicious hacks or attacks on our systems (such as denial of service attacks), could affect the security and availability of our services on our mobile applications and our websites and prevent or inhibit the ability of users to access our services. Our operations also depend on our ability to protect our databases, computers and software, telecommunications equipment and facilities against damage from potential dangers such as fire, flood, power loss, security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. Our users rely on our services when conducting their own businesses. Disruptions in, or reductions in ability to access, our services for whatever reason could damage our users businesses, harm our reputation, result in additional costs or result in reduced demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the software, internal applications and systems underlying our services are complex and may not be error-free. Our careful development and testing may not be sufficient to ensure that we will not encounter technical problems when we attempt to enhance our software, internal applications and systems. Any inefficiencies, errors or technical problems with our software, internal applications and systems could reduce the quality of our services or interfere with our customers access to our information, analytics and online marketplaces, which could reduce the demand for our services, lower our revenues and increase our costs. The majority of the communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our mobile applications and websites are located at facilities in Virginia and California. We do not own or control the operation of certain of these facilities. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. These risks may be increased with respect to operations housed at facilities we do not own or control. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. A failure of our systems at any site could result in reduced functionality for our users, and a total failure of our systems could cause our mobile applications or websites to be inaccessible. Problems faced or caused by our information technology service providers, including content distribution service providers, private network providers, Internet providers and third-party web-hosting providers, or with the systems by which they allocate capacity among their customers (as applicable), could adversely affect the experience of our users. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by these third-party service providers or any of the service providers with whom they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. If our third-party service providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, our business could be harmed. In addition, if distribution channels for our mobile applications experience disruptions, such disruptions could adversely affect the ability of users and potential users to access or update our mobile applications, which could harm our business. 35 Our business interruption insurance may not cover certain events or may be insufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business, which may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures or malicious attacks. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results and revenues are subject to fluctuations and our quarterly financial results may be subject to seasonality and market cyclicality, each of which could cause our stock price to be negatively affected. The commercial real estate market may be influenced by general economic conditions, economic cycles, annual seasonality factors and many other factors, which in turn may impact our financial results. The market is large and fragmented. The different sectors of the industry, such as office, industrial, retail, multifamily, and others, are influenced differently by different factors, and have historically moved through economic cycles with different timing. As such, it is difficult to estimate the potential impact of economic cycles and conditions or seasonality from year-to-year on our overall operating results. In addition, our results may be impacted by seasonality. The timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, particularly slowdowns during the end-of-year holiday period, and availability of real estate agents and related service providers during these periods, could significantly affect our quarterly operating results during that period. If we are unable to adequately respond to economic, seasonal or cyclical conditions, our revenues, expenses and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate for many reasons, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Rates of subscriber adoption and retention; Timing of our sales conference or significant marketing events; A slow-down during the end-of-year holiday period; Changes in our pricing strategy and timing of changes; The timing and success of new service introductions and enhancements; The shift of focus from, or phase out of services that overlap or are redundant with other services we offer; The amount and timing of our operating expenses and capital expenditures; Our ability to control expenses; The amount and timing of non-cash stock-based charges; Costs related to acquisitions of businesses or technologies or impairment charges associated with such investments and acquisitions; Competition; Changes or consolidation in the real estate industry; Our investments in geographic expansion and to increase coverage in existing markets; Interest rate fluctuations; Successful execution of our expansion and integration plans; The development of our sales force; Foreign currency and exchange rate fluctuations; Inflation; and Changes in client budgets. These fluctuations or seasonality effects could negatively affect our results of operations during the period in question and/or future periods or cause our stock price to decline. In addition, changes in accounting policies or practices may affect our level of net income. Fluctuations in our financial results, revenues and expenses may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The consent order approved by the Federal Trade Commission in connection with the LoopNet merger imposes conditions that could have an adverse effect on us and our business, and failure to comply with the terms of the consent order may result in adverse consequences for the combined company. On April 26, 2012, the FTC accepted the consent order in connection with the LoopNet merger that was previously agreed to among the FTC staff, CoStar, and LoopNet on April 17, 2012. The consent order was subject to a 30-day public comment period, and on August 29, 2012, the FTC issued its final acceptance of the consent order. 36 The consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at http://www.ftc.gov/, requires CoStar to maintain certain business practices that the FTC believes are pro-competitive. For example, the consent order requires CoStar to license its products to customers who have bought its competitors' products on a non-discriminatory basis. In addition, CoStar is required to provide the FTC with advance written notification of certain acquisitions for which notification would not otherwise be required under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Premerger Notification Act. This provision of the consent order requiring CoStar to provide the FTC with advance written notification of certain acquisitions could prevent us from closing certain acquisitions or add significant time and cost to these potential acquisitions, ultimately making an acquisition prohibitive or preventing CoStar from realizing anticipated benefits of an acquisition. In the event that CoStar fails or is unable to comply with the terms of the consent order, CoStar could be subject to an enforcement proceeding that could result in substantial fines and/or injunctive relief. We have incurred and will continue to incur acquisition-related costs. We have incurred severance costs and expect to incur additional costs to integrate prior acquisitions, such as IT integration expenses and costs related to the renegotiation of redundant vendor agreements. Costs in connection with acquisitions and integrations may be higher than expected, and we may also incur unanticipated acquisition-related costs. These costs could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation or prospects of the combined business. Changes in accounting and reporting policies or practices may affect our financial results or presentation of results, which may affect our stock price . Changes in accounting and reporting policies or practices could reduce our net income, which reductions may be independent of changes in our operations. These reductions in reported net income could cause our stock price to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our headquarters is located at 1331 L Street, NW, in downtown Washington, DC, where we occupy approximately 157,480 square feet, of which 7,980 square feet is a sublease expiring January 31, 2019, and the remaining 149,500 square feet is a lease that expires May 31, 2025 (with two 5-year renewal options). Our headquarters is used primarily by our North America operating segment. Our principal facility in the U.K. is located in London, where we occupy approximately 15,900 square feet of office space. Our lease for this facility has a term ending August 31, 2025. This facility is used by our International operating segment. In addition to our downtown Washington, DC leased facility and our London facility, we established our research operations headquarters in Richmond, Virginia in 2016, in which we occupy 132,987 square feet of office space. In addition to the Richmond research facility, we also operate our research functions out of leased spaces in San Diego, California; Columbia, Maryland; Atlanta, Georgia; and Glasgow, Scotland. Additionally, we lease office space in a variety of other metropolitan areas. These locations include, among others, the following: Austin, Texas; Boston, Massachusetts; Chicago, Illinois; Irvine, California; Los Angeles, California; and San Francisco, California. We believe these facilities are suitable and appropriately support our business needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Currently, and from time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business. We are not a party to any lawsuit or proceeding that, in the opinion of our management based on consultations with legal counsel, is likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 37 PART II Item 5. Market for the Registrants Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Price Range of Common Stock. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CSGP. The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low daily closing prices per share of our common stock, as reported by the Nasdaq Global Select Market. High Low Year Ended December 31, 2016 First Quarter $ 199.73 $ 148.90 Second Quarter $ 218.66 $ 176.85 Third Quarter $ 224.10 $ 204.82 Fourth Quarter $ 215.75 $ 180.29 Year Ended December 31, 2017 First Quarter $ 211.37 $ 186.15 Second Quarter $ 266.93 $ 204.52 Third Quarter $ 287.02 $ 263.60 Fourth Quarter $ 310.19 $ 271.63 As of February 1, 2018, there were 1,342 holders of record of our common stock. Dividend Policy. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. The 2017 Credit Agreement includes covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or distributions. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors, subject to applicable limitations under Delaware law, and will be dependent upon our results of operations, financial position and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock during the foreseeable future, but intend to retain any earnings for future growth of our business. Recent Issues of Unregistered Securities. We did not issue any unregistered securities during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2017 . Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. The following table is a summary of our repurchases of common stock during each of the three months in the quarter ended December 31, 2017 : ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Month, 2017 Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 through 31 388 $269.67 November 1 through 30 December 1 through 31 1,645 297.27 Total 2,033 (1) $292.00 (1) The number of shares purchased consists of shares of common stock tendered by employees to the Company to satisfy the employees minimum tax withholding obligations arising as a result of vesting of restricted stock grants under the Companys 2016 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, which shares were purchased by the Company based on their fair market value on the trading day immediately preceding the vesting date. None of these share purchases were part of a publicly announced program to purchase common stock of the Company. 38 Stock Price Performance Graph The stock performance graph below shows how an initial investment of $100 in our common stock would have compared to: An equal investment in the Standards & Poor's Stock 500 (S&P 500) Index; and An equal investment in the S&P 500 Internet Software & Services Index. The comparison covers the period beginning December 31, 2012 , and ending on December 31, 2017 , and assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. Note that this performance is historical and is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Company / Index 12/31/12 12/31/13 12/31/14 12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17 CoStar Group, Inc. $ 100.00 $ 206.53 $ 205.47 $ 231.27 $ 210.91 $ 332.27 S&P 500 Index 100.00 132.39 150.51 152.59 170.84 208.14 S&P 500 Internet Software & Services Index 100.00 148.79 158.60 211.44 222.39 313.02 39 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial and Operating Data Selected Consolidated Financial and Operating Data (in thousands, except per share data) The following table provides selected consolidated financial and other operating data for the five years ended December 31, 2017 . The consolidated statements of operations data shown below for each of the three years ended December 31, 2017 , 2016 and 2015 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements that are included in this report. The consolidated statements of operations data for each of the years ended 2014 and 2013 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2015 , 2014 and 2013 shown below are derived from audited consolidated financial statements for those years that are not included in this report. Information about prior period acquisitions that may affect the comparability of the selected financial information presented below is included in "Item 1. Business." The total assets and total long-term liabilities reported in the consolidated balance sheet data have been reclassified to conform to our current presentation as a result of the retrospective application of the authoritative guidance to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs. Year Ended December 31, Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Revenues $ 440,943 $ 575,936 $ 711,764 $ 837,630 $ 965,230 Cost of revenues 129,185 156,979 188,885 173,814 220,403 Gross profit 311,758 418,957 522,879 663,816 744,827 Operating expenses 257,604 338,079 511,424 518,911 571,011 Income from operations 54,154 80,878 11,455 144,905 173,816 Interest and other income 326 516 537 1,773 4,044 Interest and other expense (6,943 ) (10,481 ) (9,411 ) (10,016 ) (9,014 ) Loss on debt extinguishment (3,788 ) Income before income taxes 47,537 70,913 2,581 136,662 165,058 Income tax expense 17,803 26,044 6,046 51,591 42,363 Net income (loss) $ 29,734 $ 44,869 $ (3,465 ) $ 85,071 $ 122,695 Net income (loss) per share basic $ 1.07 $ 1.48 $ (0.11 ) $ 2.64 $ 3.70 Net income (loss) per share diluted $ 1.05 $ 1.46 $ (0.11 ) $ 2.62 $ 3.66 Weighted average shares outstanding basic 27,670 30,215 31,950 32,167 33,200 Weighted average shares outstanding diluted 28,212 30,641 31,950 32,436 33,559 As of December 31, Consolidated Balance Sheet Data: 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Cash, cash equivalents and long-term investments $ 277,943 $ 544,163 $ 437,325 $ 577,175 $ 1,221,533 Working capital 196,913 480,521 337,452 472,545 1,141,269 Total assets 1,250,440 2,070,483 2,079,571 2,185,063 2,873,441 Total long-term liabilities 213,674 440,982 400,510 375,904 75,525 Stockholders equity 927,862 1,513,546 1,543,780 1,654,213 2,651,250 40 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those stated above in Item 1A. under the headings Risk Factors - Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors, as well as those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytics and online marketplaces to the commercial real estate industry in the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.) based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S. based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors and believe that we generate more revenues than any of our commercial real estate information and online marketplace competitors. We created and compiled our standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate, including apartments, and the related business communities, can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. We have five flagship brands - CoStar , LoopNet , Apartments.com TM , BizBuySell and LandsofAmerica TM . Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Suite services. CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStar Go. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, information about properties for sale, tenant information, Internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We provide market research, consulting and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our CoStar Portfolio Strategy and CoStar Suite service offerings; portfolio and debt analysis, management and reporting capabilities through our CoStar Investment Analysis and CoStar Risk Analytics service offerings; and, real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our CoStar Real Estate Manager service offerings. Our LoopNet subscription-based online marketplace services enable commercial property owners, landlords and real estate agents working on their behalf to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants also use LoopNet's online marketplace services to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. Apartments.com is part of our network of apartment marketing sites, which also includes ApartmentFinder.com TM , ForRent.com, ApartmentHomeLiving.com TM , WestsideRentals.com, AFTER55.com, CorporateHousing.com TM , ForRentUniversity.com and Apartamentos.com TM , our apartment-listing site offered exclusively in Spanish. Our apartment marketing network of subscription-based services offers renters a searchable database of over one million listings and provides professional property management companies and landlords with an advertising destination. Our apartment marketing network draws on and leverages CoStars multifamily database, which contains detailed information on apartment properties. We designed the Apartments.com, ApartmentFinder.com and Apartamentos.com websites to meet renter preferences and demands, creating qualified renter prospects for our advertisers. We acquired the ForRent.com, AFTER55.com, CorporateHousing.com and ForRentUniversity.com sites when we completed the acquisition of ForRent, a division of Dominion Enterprises, on February 21, 2018. Our network of apartment marketing sites provide a comprehensive selection of rentals, information on actual availabilities and rents, and in-depth data on neighborhoods, including restaurants, nightlife, history, schools and other facts important to renters. To help renters find the information that meets their needs, the sites also offer innovative search tools such as the Polygon TM Search tool, which allows renters to specifically define the area in which they want to find an apartment. The Screening Pros TM is an 41 online apartment leasing platform that includes tenant screening services, rental applications and payments processing and lease renewals. On February 21 2018, we completed the acquisition of ForRent, a division of Dominion Enterprises, for a purchase price of approximately $385 million, payable approximately $350 million in cash and approximately $35 million in shares of CoStar Group common stock, subject to a customary working capital adjustment and other post-closing adjustments. Approximately $11 million of the cash consideration was placed in escrow to be used for potential employee stay bonuses. 42 Similar to our other past acquisitions, we have been, and plan to continue, integrating, further developing and cross-selling the services offered by Apartments.com, ApartmentFinder.com and Westside Rentals and the other services we offer, including but not limited to CoStar Suite. Now that we have completed the ForRent acquisition, we plan to develop and cross-sell the services offered by ForRent. We have incurred and plan to continue to incur product development costs to improve the online Apartments.com and ApartmentFinder.com platforms and Apartamentos.com. We have incurred and plan to continue to incur sales and marketing expenses in order to support the Apartments.com network and to increase brand awareness. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for the Apartments.com network, we utilize a multi-channel marketing campaign featuring television and radio advertising, online/digital advertising, social media and out-of-home ads and reinforced that advertising with Search Engine Marketing. We plan to continue to utilize these marketing methods and will continue to work to determine the optimal level of marketing investment for our services for future periods. Our BizBuySell services, which include BizQuest , provide an online marketplace for businesses for sale. Our Land.com network of sites, which provide online marketplaces for rural lands for sale, includes LandsofAmerica, LandAndFarm and LandWatch. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use and hospitality. Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based services rather than charging fees based on actual system usage or number of paid clicks. Depending on the type of service, contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, geography, the number and types of services to which a client subscribes, the number of properties a client advertises and the prominence and placement of a client's advertised properties in the search results. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees in advance on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us in advance on a quarterly or annual basis. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016 , our annualized net bookings of subscription-based services on all contracts were approximately $43 million and $29 million , respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from all new subscription-based contracts or upsales on all existing subscription-based contracts, less write downs and cancellations, for the period reported. Our net bookings is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our subscription revenue results. Net bookings is considered a key indicator of future subscription revenue growth and is also used as a metric of salesforce productivity by management and investors. We recognize subscription revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. 43 For each of the twelve months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 , our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services on annual contracts was approximately 91% and 90% , respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate for those services was approximately 9% and 10% , respectively, for the same time periods. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if, among other reasons, negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Development, Investments and Expansion We are committed to supporting and improving our information, news, analytic and online marketplace solutions. We expect to continue our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate and cross-sell services, and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for our listing sites, we utilize a variety of marketing campaigns, including television and radio advertising, online/digital advertising, social media and out-of-home ads, and Search Engine Marketing. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing in 2018. As we continue to assess the success and effectiveness of our marketing campaign, we will continue to work to determine the optimal level of marketing investment for our services for future periods. Our key priorities for 2018 and recent developments include: We are migrating all of our commercial real estate information capabilities to our flagship CoStar Suite product and winding down the legacy LoopNet Information products. This process began in the fall of 2017 with the integration of the CoStar and Loopnet databases. In addition, we are transitioning the LoopNet marketplace to a pure pay-to-list marketing site for commercial real estate. We completed integrating the backend systems of the LoopNet and CoStar databases during the second half of 2017; the two services now share a unified database of information, creating operating efficiencies and improving the data available to our customers. We also introduced new enhancements on the CoStar homepage, including a Listing Manager feature that we believe will increase the quantity and quality of the listing information available by enabling brokers and other industry participants to load information directly into the integrated system. This in turn is expected to reduce the time and costs associated with researching and maintaining our comprehensive database of commercial real estate information. On February 21, 2018, we completed the acquisition of ForRent, a division of Dominion Enterprises, ForRents primary service is digital advertising through a network of four multifamily websites - which includes ForRent.com, AFTER55.com, CorporateHousing.com and ForRentUniversity.com. We plan to integrate, develop and cross-sell the services offered by ForRent. ForRent.com is expected to remain a distinct, complementary brand to Apartments.com, giving property managers and owners more exposure for their listings. We plan to continue developing new, and improve existing, product and service offerings to the apartments industry. In particular, we expect to implement the ability for renters to apply for leases online, for landlords to run tenant credit and background checks and, eventually, for landlords and tenants to generate leases and process payments online. We continue to invest in our research operations to support continued growth of our information and analytics offerings. We established our research operations headquarters in Richmond, Virginia, in December 2016, which is developing into a technology innovation hub, powering the software development necessary to support the content within our information, analytics and marketing services. In connection with the opening of the Richmond research headquarters, we have expanded our research team to continue to meet the growing content needs of our clients. In addition, we expect to continue to invest in our International research operations in Madrid, Spain and the U.K. In support of our continued expansion and development, in October 2017, we completed a public equity offering of 3,317,308 shares of common stock for $260.00 per share. Net proceeds from the public equity offering were approximately $834 million , after deducting approximately $29 million of underwriting discounts and fees. We expect to use the net proceeds from the public equity offering to fund all or a portion of the costs of any strategic acquisitions we determine to pursue in the future, to finance the growth of our business and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. General corporate purposes may include additions to working capital, capital expenditures, repayment of debt, investments in the Companys subsidiaries, possible acquisitions and the repurchase, redemption or retirement of securities, including the Companys common stock. On October 19, 2017, the Company entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the 2017 Credit Agreement), which amended and restated in its entirety the existing 2014 Credit Agreement. The 2017 Credit Agreement provides for a $750 44 million revolving credit facility with a term of five years from a syndicate of financial institutions as lenders and issuing banks. The Company also paid off the remaining balance of $310 million and interest on its existing $400 million term loan under the 2014 Credit Agreement on October 19, 2017 from existing cash balances. The 2017 revolving credit facility may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Company had no outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2017 as it had not drawn any amounts under its 2017 Credit Agreement. The restructured credit facility, along with the proceeds from the October equity offering and cash generated by the Companys business are expected to support the Companys continued growth and give the Company flexibility to act on strategic acquisition opportunities that may arise. We intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business, in addition to the investments discussed above, in order to develop and distribute new services within our current platform or expand the reach of our current service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services or corporate expansion, development or restructuring efforts could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to experience reduced revenues or generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Any development efforts must comply with our credit facility, which contains restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow and may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. 45 Property Developments As we have done in the past, we expect to continue to identify new facilities and consolidate existing facilities to better accommodate the changing demands of our business operations and employees. As a result, we may incur additional lease restructuring charges for the abandonment of certain lease space and the impairment of leasehold improvements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include net income before interest and other income (expense), income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share (also referred to as non-GAAP EPS). EBITDA is our net income before interest, loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition and integration related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition and integration related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs and loss on debt extinguishment incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income (loss) the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income (loss) or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. 46 EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 30 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytics and online marketplace services, which has included acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition and integration related costs, restructuring costs, and loss on debt extinguishment. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition and integration related costs, restructuring costs; settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition and integration related costs, restructuring costs; loss on debt extinguishment and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of financial items that have been excluded from net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income : Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the diminishing value of any acquired trade names and other intangible assets and the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest and other income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest and other income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of interest and other expense we incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest and other expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of loss on our debt extinguishment may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of the loss on debt extinguishment to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of additional financial items that have been excluded from EBITDA to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a 47 high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. 48 The amount of acquisition and integration related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to acquisitions. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition and integration related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in a contract or a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters or impairments on acquired intangible assets. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of loss on our debt extinguishment may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the early extinguishment of debt. However, we do not consider the amount of the loss on debt extinguishment to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition and integration related costs, restructuring and related costs, settlement and impairment costs, and loss on debt extinguishment incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss). We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2017 , 2016 , and 2015 , we assumed a 38% tax rate, which approximates our historical long-term statutory corporate tax rate, excluding the impact of discrete items. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our net income reconciled to our EBITDA and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Net income (loss) $ 122,695 $ 85,071 $ (3,465 ) Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues 19,707 22,819 30,077 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses 17,684 22,731 27,931 Depreciation and other amortization 26,252 24,615 20,524 Interest and other income (4,044 ) (1,773 ) (537 ) Interest and other expense 9,014 10,016 9,411 Loss on debt extinguishment 3,788 Income tax expense 42,363 51,591 6,046 EBITDA $ 237,459 $ 215,070 $ 89,987 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 234,703 $ 200,642 $ 139,773 Investing activities $ (72,267 ) $ (23,259 ) $ (215,502 ) Financing activities $ 480,430 $ (30,563 ) $ (29,032 ) 49 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table provides our selected consolidated results of operations for the indicated periods (in thousands of dollars and as a percentage of total revenue): Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Revenues $ 965,230 100 % $ 837,630 100 % $ 711,764 100 % Cost of revenues 220,403 23 173,814 21 188,885 27 Gross profit 744,827 77 663,816 79 522,879 73 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing (excluding customer base amortization) 318,362 33 296,483 35 302,226 42 Software development 88,850 9 76,400 9 65,760 9 General and administrative 146,128 15 123,297 15 115,507 16 Customer base amortization 17,671 2 22,731 3 27,931 4 Total operating expenses 571,011 59 518,911 62 511,424 72 Income from operations 173,816 18 144,905 17 11,455 1 Interest and other income 4,044 1,773 537 Interest and other expense (9,014 ) (1 ) (10,016 ) (1 ) (9,411 ) (1 ) Loss on debt extinguishment (3,788 ) (2 ) Income before income taxes 165,058 16 136,662 16 2,581 Income tax expense 42,363 4 51,591 6 6,046 1 Net income (loss) $ 122,695 12 % $ 85,071 10 % $ (3,465 ) (1 )% The following table provides our revenues by type of service (in thousands of dollars and as a percentage of total revenue): Year Ended December 31, 2017 2016 2015 Information and analytics CoStar Suite (1) $ 463,185 48 % $ 408,456 49 % $ 360,440 50 % Information services (2) 72,618 8 77,178 9 75,790 11 Online marketplaces Multifamily (3) 279,855 29 224,835 27 160,630 23 Commercial property and land (4) 149,572 15 127,161 15 114,904 16 Total revenues $ 965,230 100 % $ 837,630 100 % $ 711,764 100 % (1) CoStar Suite is comprised of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional, CoStar Tenant; and CoStar Portfolio Strategy. (2) Information services is comprised of LoopNet Premium Searcher; CoStar Real Estate Manager; CoStar Risk Analytics COMPASS; CoStar Investment Analysis Portfolio Maximizer; CoStar Investment Analysis Request; CoStar Brokerage Applications; PROPEX; Grecam; Belbex and Thomas Daily. (3) Multifamily is comprised of Apartments.com, ApartmentFinder.com, ApartmentHomeLiving.com, WestsideRentals.com; Apartamentos.com; and The Screening Pros. (4) Commercial property and land is comprised of LoopNet Premium Lister; LoopLink; CoStar Advertising; BizBuySell and BizQuest; LandsofAmerica, LandAndFarm and LandWatch; and CoStar Private Sale Network. 50 Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2017 and Year Ended December 31, 2016 The following table provides a comparison of our selected consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands of dollars): 2017 2016 Increase (Decrease) ($) Increase (Decrease) (%) Revenues CoStar Suite $ 463,185 $ 408,456 $ 54,729 13 % Information services 72,618 77,178 (4,560 ) (6 ) Multifamily 279,855 224,835 55,020 24 Commercial property and land 149,572 127,161 22,411 18 Total revenues 965,230 837,630 127,600 15 Cost of revenues 220,403 173,814 46,589 27 Gross profit 744,827 663,816 81,011 12 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing (excluding customer base amortization) 318,362 296,483 21,879 7 Software development 88,850 76,400 12,450 16 General and administrative 146,128 123,297 22,831 19 Customer base amortization 17,671 22,731 (5,060 ) (22 ) Total operating expenses 571,011 518,911 52,100 10 Income from operations 173,816 144,905 28,911 20 Interest and other income 4,044 1,773 2,271 128 Interest and other expense (9,014 ) (10,016 ) (1,002 ) (10 ) Loss on extinguishment (3,788 ) 3,788 NM Income before income taxes 165,058 136,662 28,396 21 Income tax expense 42,363 51,591 (9,228 ) (18 ) Net income $ 122,695 $ 85,071 $ 37,624 44 % __________________________ NM - Not meaningful Revenues . Revenues increased to $965 million in 2017 , from $838 million in 2016 . The $127 million increase was primarily attributable to increased revenues of approximately $55 million or 13% from continued organic growth in CoStar Suite as well as a movement of our Loopnet customers onto our CoStar platform as a result of the Loopnet integration. Information Services decreased $5M or 6% primarily due to continued wind down of Loopnet Information products including Premium Searcher partially offset by increases in our Real Estate Manager offering. Multifamily year over year increases of $55 million or 24% was primarily attributable to organic growth as well as some smaller increases for several acquisitions. Commercial Property and Land revenue increased $22 million or 18% over 2016 primarily due to organic growth as well as an increase due to the Landwatch acquisition. Overall, revenue growth rates are expected to be in line or slightly higher than 2017. Gross Profit . Gross profit increased to $745 million in 2017 , from $664 million in 2016 . The gross margin percentage decreased to 77% in 2017 , from 79% in 2016 . Revenue growth led to an increase in costs of revenues of $38 million for additional research personnel costs, $5 million in occupancy related costs from our new research office in Richmond offset by a decrease in the amortization of intangible assets of $4 million . Gross margins are impacted by the amortization of certain intangible assets acquired through acquisitions. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $318 million in 2017 , from $296 million in 2016 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 33% from 35% . The increase in the amount of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to a $25 million increase in sales personnel costs related to increased commission expense from higher sales in 2017 partially offset by a $2 million decrease in digital marketing costs. 51 Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $89 million in 2017 , from $76 million in 2016 , and remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenues at 9% for both 2017 and 2016 . The increase in the amount of software development expense was primarily due to a $14 million increase in personnel costs to support enhancements and upgrades to our services and integration of the backend systems of the LoopNet and CoStar databases. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased 19% to $146 million in 2017 , from $123 million in 2016 , and remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenues at 15% in 2017 and 2016 . The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to legal costs related to litigation of approximately $13 million , an increase in administrative personnel costs of $5 million to support the ongoing growth of the business, and a $3 million increase in charitable donations. Customer Base Amortization Expense. Customer base amortization expense decreased to approximately $18 million in 2017 , from $23 million in 2016 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 2% in 2017 , compared to 3% in 2016 . The decrease in the amount and percentage of customer base amortization expense was primarily due to the accelerated amortization of acquired customer bases in 2016 as compared to 2017 . Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income increased to approximately $4 million in 2017 compared to approximately $2 million in 2016 . The increase was primarily due to increased short term investments on a larger cash balance in 2017 than in 2016 mainly due to net proceeds of $834 million from the equity offering in October 2017. Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense remained relatively consistent at $9 million in 2017 compared to $10 million in 2016 . The decrease was primarily due to the repayment of outstanding debt in October 2017 in conjunction with the 2017 Credit Agreement offset by higher interest rates on outstanding debt in 2017 compared to 2016. Loss on Extinguishment. The loss on extinguishment was due to the restatement and amendment of the 2014 Credit Agreement as the 2017 Credit Agreement, which resulted in a loss on debt extinguishment of approximately $4 million . Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense decreased to $42 million in 2017 compared to $52 million in 2016 . Without the effect of discrete items, income tax expense would have increased by approximately $12 million . Discrete items resulted in a reduction in tax expense of approximately $22 million including the revaluation of the deferred tax liability at the lower federal statutory tax rate resulting in a $7 million benefit. We also recognized approximately $8 million benefit in net research and development tax benefits related to the periods 2013-2017. Finally, we recognized $7 million benefit from the impact of the accounting rule change in ASU 2016-09 that provided for recognizing excess tax benefits in income tax expense as compared to additional paid in capital, which was the treatment prior to 2017. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2017 and Year Ended December 31, 2016 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which includes the U.K., Spain, Germany and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenues and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $934 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $809 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This increase in North America revenues was primarily due to increased revenues of approximately $55 million from our Multifamily products, and an increase of $55 million in CoStar Suite from the continued growth of our subscription-based services due to successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $31 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily due to continued growth of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Segment EBITDA. North America EBITDA increased to $237 million for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $211 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . The increase in North America EBITDA was due primarily to an increase in revenues of $125 million primarily offset by increased personnel costs from additional investments in our research operations and the opening of our Richmond research headquarters as well as increased legal costs. International EBITDA decreased to $1 million 52 for the year ended December 31, 2017 , compared to $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease in International EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs from the relocation of our European research headquarters from Glasgow, Scotland to London, England and as a result of increased headcount from investments in our International research operations in Madrid, Spain and the U.K. 53 Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2016 and Year Ended December 31, 2015 The following table provides a comparison of our selected consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 (in thousands of dollars): 2016 2015 Increase (Decrease) ($) Increase (Decrease) (%) Revenues CoStar Suite $ 408,456 $ 360,440 $ 48,016 13 % Information services 77,178 75,790 1,388 2 Multifamily 224,835 160,630 64,205 40 Commercial property and land 127,161 114,904 12,257 11 Total revenues 837,630 711,764 125,866 18 Cost of revenues 173,814 188,885 (15,071 ) (8 ) Gross profit 663,816 522,879 140,937 27 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing (excluding customer base amortization) 296,483 302,226 (5,743 ) (2 ) Software development 76,400 65,760 10,640 16 General and administrative 123,297 115,507 7,790 7 Customer base amortization 22,731 27,931 (5,200 ) (19 ) Total operating expenses 518,911 511,424 7,487 1 Income from operations 144,905 11,455 133,450 NM Interest and other income 1,773 537 1,236 NM Interest and other expense (10,016 ) (9,411 ) 605 6 Income before income taxes 136,662 2,581 134,081 NM Income tax expense 51,591 6,046 45,545 NM Net income (loss) $ 85,071 $ (3,465 ) $ 88,536 NM Revenues . Revenues increased to $838 million in 2016, from $712 million in 2015. The $126 million increase was primarily attributable to increased revenues of approximately $64 million from our Apartments Network primarily related to the acquisition of Apartment Finder on June 1, 2015 as well as continued organic growth in CoStar Suite and Multifamily revenues. Gross Profit . Gross profit increased to $664 million in 2016, from $523 million in 2015. The gross margin percentage increased to 79% in 2016, from 73% in 2015. The increase in the gross profit amount and percentage was principally due to an increase in revenues as well as a decrease in cost of revenues of $15 million. The decrease in costs of revenues is primarily due to a $7 million decrease in the amortization of intangible assets and a $6 million decrease in research personnel costs. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses decreased to $296 million in 2016, from $302 million in 2015, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 35% in 2016, from 42% in 2015. The decrease in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to a $19 million decrease in marketing expense for the wide-scale marketing campaign to generate brand awareness and site traffic for Apartments.com, partially offset by a $14 million increase in sales personnel costs. 54 Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $76 million in 2016, from $66 million in 2015, and remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenues at 9% in 2016 and 2015. The increase in the amount of software development expense was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs to support enhancements and upgrades to our services and continued work to integrate the backend systems of the LoopNet and CoStar databases. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $123 million in 2016, from $116 million in 2015, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 15% in 2016 from 16% in 2015. The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to legal costs related to litigation of approximately $6 million incurred during 2016 that did not occur during 2015, as well as an increase in lease restructuring charges of $2 million for the abandonment of certain lease space and the impairment of leasehold improvements in 2016 compared to 2015. Customer Base Amortization Expense. Customer base amortization expense decreased to approximately $23 million in 2016, from $28 million in 2015, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 3% in 2016, compared to 4% in 2015. The decrease in the amount and percentage of customer base amortization expense was primarily due to the accelerated amortization of acquired customer bases in 2015 as compared to 2016. Interest and Other Income. Interest and other income increased to approximately $2 million in 2016 compared to approximately $537,000 in 2015. The increase was primarily due to a realized gain of approximately $808,000 on investments in auction rate securities (ARS) in 2016 that did not occur in 2015. Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense remained relatively consistent at $10 million in 2016 compared to $9 million in 2015. Income Tax Expense. Income tax expense increased to $52 million in 2016 compared to $6 million in 2015. This increase was primarily due to higher income before income taxes in 2016 as compared to 2015 as a result of our increased revenues. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2016 and Year Ended December 31, 2015 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which includes the U.K., Spain, Germany and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenues and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $809 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $687 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. This increase in North America revenues was primarily due to increased revenues of approximately $64 million from our Apartments Network, as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $25 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Segment EBITDA. North America EBITDA increased to $211 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $87 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. The increase in North America EBITDA was due primarily to an increase in revenues. International EBITDA increased to $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2016, compared to $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. This increase in International EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenues. 55 Consolidated Quarterly Results of Operations The following tables present our unaudited consolidated results of operations on a quarterly basis for the indicated periods (in thousands, except per share amounts, and as a percentage of total revenues). These tables should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The quarterly results of historical periods are not necessarily indicative of quarterly results for any future period. 2017 2016 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues $ 226,553 $ 237,153 $ 247,533 $ 253,991 $ 199,739 $ 206,869 $ 212,711 $ 218,311 Cost of revenues 51,346 55,273 55,483 58,301 42,900 42,679 42,222 46,013 Gross profit 175,207 181,880 192,050 195,690 156,839 164,190 170,489 172,298 Operating expenses 137,545 153,997 134,537 144,932 126,538 136,071 130,893 125,409 Income from operations 37,662 27,883 57,513 50,758 30,301 28,119 39,596 46,889 Interest and other income 429 605 555 2,455 84 159 344 1,186 Interest and other expense (2,686 ) (2,693 ) (2,901 ) (734 ) (2,509 ) (2,455 ) (2,498 ) (2,554 ) Loss on debt extinguishment (3,788 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 35,405 25,795 55,167 48,691 27,876 25,823 37,442 45,521 Income tax expense 13,275 3,611 20,990 4,487 11,155 10,247 14,241 15,948 Net income $ 22,130 $ 22,184 $ 34,177 $ 44,204 $ 16,721 $ 15,576 $ 23,201 $ 29,573 Net income per share basic $ 0.69 $ 0.68 $ 1.05 $ 1.24 $ 0.52 $ 0.48 $ 0.72 $ 0.92 Net income per share diluted $ 0.68 $ 0.68 $ 1.04 $ 1.22 $ 0.52 $ 0.48 $ 0.72 $ 0.91 2017 2016 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % 100 % Cost of revenues 23 23 22 23 21 21 20 21 Gross profit 77 77 78 77 79 79 80 79 Operating expenses 60 65 55 58 64 65 61 58 Income from operations 17 12 23 19 15 14 19 21 Interest and other income 1 1 Interest and other expense (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) (1 ) Loss on debt extinguishment (1 ) Income before income taxes 16 11 22 19 14 13 18 21 Income tax expense 6 2 8 2 6 5 7 7 Net income 10 % 9 % 14 % 17 % 8 % 8 % 11 % 14 % Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, and cash from operations. Total cash and cash equivalents increased to $1 billion at December 31, 2017 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $567 million at December 31, 2016 . The increase in cash and cash equivalents for the year ended December 31, 2017 was primarily due to $834 million in net proceeds from our public equity offering in October 2017 of 3,317,308 shares of common stock for $260.00 per share after deducting underwriting discounts and fees of $29 million . In addition, the Company generated net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $235 million , partially offset by debt payments of $345 million , purchase of property, equipment and other assets of approximately $24 million , and payments made for acquisitions including LandWatch, Westside Rentals and The Screening Pros totaling approximately $48 million. 56 Changes in cash and cash equivalents are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as proceeds from the exercise of stock options offset by issuance of shares to cover taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $235 million compared to $201 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $140 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The $34 million and $61 million increase from December 31, 2016 to December 31, 2017 and from December 31, 2015 to December 31, 2016 , respectively, is primarily due to higher income from operations in both periods. Income from operations was partially offset fluctuations in working capital. Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $72 million compared to $23 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $216 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 . The $49 million increase in investing activities in 2017 compared to 2016 was primarily due to the increase in cash used for acquisitions from 2016 to 2017 . 2017 included cash payments for the acquisitions of Westside Rentals for $14 million , a $31 million payment for LandWatch and a $3 million payment for the acquisition of The Screening Pros. During 2017 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $24 million primarily related to computer equipment and leasehold improvements for build out of sales office space. We expect capital expenditures to increase in 2018 related to the build out of leased office space, including the Richmond research headquarters, as well as investments in technology. The $192 million decrease in investing activities in 2016 compared to 2015 was primarily due to the decrease in cash used for acquisitions from 2015 to 2016. The $182 million of net cash used for acquisitions in 2015 included $179 million for the acquisition of Apartment Finder and certain assets related to the business operations of Apartment Finder's independent distributors as well as $3 million for the acquisition of the assets of Belbex Corporate, S.L. In 2016, we spent $10 million for the acquisitions of Thomas Daily and certain assets related to the business operations of Apartment Finder's independent distributors. During 2016, we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $19 million primarily related to computer equipment and leasehold improvements for build out of sales office space. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2017 was $480 million compared to net cash used in financing activities of $31 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 and $29 million in December 31, 2015 . This $511 million increase from 2016 to 2017 was primarily due to $834 million in net proceeds from our equity offering offset by an increase in debt repayments in 2017 of $325 million . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions. On January 31, 2017, we acquired Westside Rentals; on May 10, 2017, we acquired LandWatch; and on July 18, 2017, we acquired The Screening Pros. On February 21, 2018, we completed the acquisition of ForRent, a division of Dominion Enterprises, for approximately $350 million in cash and approximately $35 million in CoStar Group stock, subject to customary working capital and other post-closing adjustments. Our future acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. On October 19, 2017, the Company entered into the 2017 Credit Agreement, which amended and restated in its entirety the existing 2014 Credit Agreement. The 2017 Credit Agreement provides for a $750 million revolving credit facility with a term of five years from a syndicate of financial institutions as lenders and issuing banks. The Company had not drawn on the 2017 Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2017 . Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. Contractual Obligations . The following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2017 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Total 2018 2019-2020 2021-2022 Thereafter Operating leases $ 178,402 $ 30,853 $ 54,061 $ 47,427 $ 46,061 Purchase obligations (1) 11,953 4,408 4,615 2,284 646 Total contractual principal cash obligations $ 190,355 $ 35,261 $ 58,676 $ 49,711 $ 46,707 57 (1) Amounts do not include (i) contracts with terms of twelve months or less, (ii) multi-year contracts that may be terminated by a third-party or us, or (iii) employment agreements. Amounts do not include unrecognized tax benefits of $13.4 million due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. 58 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to recover the carrying value of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. Goodwill represents the excess of costs over the fair value of assets of acquired businesses. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for impairment at least annually by each reporting unit. The Company may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or elect to bypass such assessment. If it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, or the Company elects to bypass such assessment, the Company then determines the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, growth rate and future financial performance. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about the growth rate and future financial performance of a reporting unit are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows. These assumptions are subject to change from period to period and could be adversely impacted by the uncertainty surrounding global market conditions, commercial real estate conditions and the competitive environment in which we operate. Changes in these or other factors could negatively affect our reporting units' fair value and potentially result in impairment charges. Such impairment charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2017 , the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2017 , that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. 59 Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues when (1) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (2) the fee is fixed or determinable, (3) services have been rendered and payment has been contractually earned and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Revenues from subscription-based services are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. We evaluate our allowance for doubtful accounts and estimate collectability of accounts receivable based on our analysis of historical collection experience, changes in customer payment profiles and the aging of receivable balances, as well as current economic conditions, all of which may affect a customers ability to pay. A credit reserve has also been established based on historical experience of credits issued to customers to ensure that revenue is recognized appropriately in the current period. Deferred revenue results from advance cash receipts from customers or amounts billed in advance to customers from the sale of subscription services and is recognized over the term of the service agreement. We derive revenues by providing access to our proprietary database of commercial real estate information. We generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based services. Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Subscription contract rates are based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the clients business focus, geography, the number and types of services to which a client subscribes, the number of properties a client advertises and the prominence and placement of a client's advertised properties in the search results, as applicable. A majority of the subscription-based service agreements have a term of one year and renew automatically. We analyze contracts with multiple elements under the accounting guidance for multiple-element arrangements. Our multiple-element arrangements include information, analytics and/or online marketplace services that are generally provided to the customer over the same term. When identifying multiple-element arrangements, we consider multiple purchases made by the same customer within a short time frame and assess whether the purchases were negotiated together as one overall arrangement. If a multiple-element arrangement is identified, then the arrangement consideration is allocated among the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices, which is estimated considering factors such as historical pricing, pricing strategy, market conditions and other factors. We account for each deliverable in the transaction separately. If the deliverables cannot be separated into multiple units of accounting, then the arrangement consideration is combined and recognition of revenues is determined for the combined unit of accounting. Multiple-element transactions require judgment to determine the selling price or fair value of the different elements. The judgments impact the amount of revenues recognized over the term of the contract, as well as the period in which they are recognized. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations. We generally recognize the effect of the tax law changes in the period of enactment. Changes in existing tax laws and rates, their related interpretations, and the uncertainty generated by the current economic environment may affect the amounts of our deferred tax liabilities or the valuations of our deferred tax assets over time. Our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents managements best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. In accordance with SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we report provisional amounts if we are able to determine a reasonable estimate but do not have the necessary information available, prepared, and analyzed in reasonable detail to complete the accounting for Tax Reform . We may revise our estimates as we finalize our accounting during a measurement period of up to one year from the enactment of Tax Reform. 60 Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. For equity instruments that vest based on a market condition, we estimate the fair value of each equity instrument granted on the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation model, which also requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the equity instruments. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of our stock price. For equity instruments that vest based on performance, we assess the probability of the achievement of the performance conditions at the end of each reporting period, or more frequently based upon the occurrence of events that may change the probability of whether the performance conditions would be met. If our initial estimates of the achievement of the performance conditions change, the related stock-based compensation expense and timing of recognition may fluctuate from period to period based on those estimates. If the performance conditions are not met, no stock-based compensation expense will be recognized, and any previously recognized stock-based compensation expense will be reversed. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2017 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired customer bases, acquired database technology, and acquired trade names from a market participant's perspective, useful lives and discount rates. During the measurement period, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Any adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period are recorded in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities ("ARS"), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently actively trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of December 31, 2017 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of contractual cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents our estimate of the yield expected by a market participant from the ARS investments. The weighted average discount rate used in the discounted cash flow model as of December 31, 2017 and 2016 was approximately 6% and 5% , respectively. Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the ARS. 61 Based on this assessment of fair value, as of December 31, 2017 , we determined there was a net decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $730,000 . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of December 31, 2017 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification of share-based payment transactions on the statement of cash flows. Effective the first quarter of 2017, the Company adopted the standard, which impacted our 2017 net income because excess tax benefits, which were previously reflected in additional paid in capital, are now reflected in income tax expense. The significance of the impact will depend on the intrinsic value at the time of vesting or exercise of equity instruments. In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350: Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment, which is designed to simplify the subsequent measurement of goodwill by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. The guidance indicates that an entity should recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit's fair value; however, the loss recognized should not exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. This guidance is effective on a prospective basis for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is permitted for interim or annual goodwill impairment tests performed on testing dates after January 1, 2017. The Company early adopted this guidance during the first quarter of 2017 and the early adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 62 See Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption.