Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those stated above in Item 1A. under the headings Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors, as well as those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information and analytic services to the commercial real estate industry in the U.S. and the U.K. based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available, have the largest research department in the industry, provide more information and analytic services than any of our competitors and believe we generate more revenues than any of our competitors. We have created a standardized information and analytic platform where members of the commercial real estate and related business community can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently exchanging accurate and standardized commercial real estate information. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, tenant information, information about properties for sale, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration, and industry news. We also provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our PPR service offerings, portfolio and debt management and reporting capabilities through our Resolve Technology service offerings, and real estate management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our Virtual Premise service offerings. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, industrial, retail, land, mixed-use, hospitality and multifamily. Expansion and Development We expect to develop and distribute new services, expand existing services within our current platform (including internationally), and expand and develop our sales and marketing organization. These initiatives are expected to include continued devleopment of CoStarGo, enhancements to our core information services, including our suite of online services, and development of new services for our brokerage clients. Most recently, on August 15, 2011, we launched CoStarGo in the U.S.; CoStarGo is an iPad application that integrates our comprehensive property, tenant and comparable sales information in our suite of online products CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant and CoStar COMPS Professional. We supported the launch with an extensive marketing campaign during the third quarter of 2011, including a 34-city national launch tour to drive early adoption of the service. We incurred expenses of approximately $3.4 million during the third quarter of 2011 in connection with the launch of CoStarGo. We expect to continue to incur additional expenses associated with the marketing and sale of CoStarGo. We also intend to continue to expand the coverage of our service offerings within our International segment and to integrate our International operations more fully with those in the U.S. We have gained operational efficiencies as a result of consolidating a majority of our U.K. research operations in one location in Glasgow and combining the majority of our remaining U.K. operations in one central location in London. We intend to introduce a consistent international platform of service offerings in the upcoming future. As part of our integration efforts, in 2007, we introduced the CoStar Group as the brand encompassing our international operations, and in early 2010 we launched Showcase, our Internet marketing service that provides commercial real estate professionals high quality internet lead generation, in the U.K. We expect to introduce CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional, CoStar Tenant and CoStarGo, our iPad application, in the U.K. in the upcoming future. Additionally, we plan to upgrade back end research operations, fulfillment and CRM systems in the U.K. to support these new U.K. services. In order to implement these services in the U.K., we have incurred, and expect to incur increased development costs. We believe that our continued investments in U.S. products, internationalization of our products and integration efforts have created a platform for long-term growth, which we intend to continue to develop, invest in and expand. 32 Any future product development or expansion of services could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Therefore, while we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings throughout 2012 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, it is possible that any new investments could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Our goal is to provide additional tools that make our research and analytics even more valuable to subscribers. For example, we are focusing on further integration and development of the services offered by the companies we have most recently acquired, PPR, Resolve Technology and Virtual Premise. We have launched an initiative to develop a lease discounted cash flow (LDCF) forecasting and valuation solution that effectively integrates the combined capabilities of CoStars market and property information and PPRs analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technologys and Virtual Premises commercial real estate investment and management software expertise. In order to implement this initiative, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur additional costs. While our investments in PPR, Resolve Technology and Virtual Premise have resulted and may continue to result in an increase in expenses, our revenues have also increased as a result of these acquisitions, and we have experienced increased cross-selling opportunities among CoStar and the acquired companies. On April 27, 2011, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire LoopNet. Pursuant to the merger agreement, as a result of the merger (a) each outstanding share of LoopNet common stock will be converted into a unit consisting of (i) $16.50 in cash, without interest and (ii) 0.03702 shares of CoStar common stock, and (b) each outstanding share of LoopNet Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, unless previously converted into LoopNet common stock, will be converted into a unit consisting of (i) the product of 148.80952 multiplied by the Cash Consideration and (ii) the product of 148.80952 multiplied by the Stock Consideration, representing a total equity value of approximately $860.0 million and an enterprise value of $762.0 million as of April 27, 2011. The holders of LoopNets Series A Convertible Preferred Stock delivered contingent conversion notices to LoopNet pursuant to which such shares will be converted into LoopNet common stock immediately prior to, and contingent upon, the completion of the merger. The boards of directors of CoStar and LoopNet have unanimously approved the transaction, and the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of LoopNets common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class on an as-converted basis, have approved adoption of the merger agreement on July 11, 2011. We intend to fund the cash portion of the consideration payable to LoopNet stockholders in the merger through a combination of cash on hand, including the net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million from an equity offering we completed in June 2011 and the proceeds of a $175.0 million term loan facility available to us under a Credit Agreement, dated February 16, 2012, by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc., as co-borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Bank, as administrative agent. The obligation of the lenders to make the loans under the Credit Agreement is subject to the simultaneous closing of the merger with LoopNet and the satisfaction of certain other conditions precedent. The proceeds of a $50 million revolving credit facility also available to us under the Credit Agreement may be used, on the closing date of the LoopNet merger, to pay for transaction costs related to the merger and, thereafter, for working capital and other general corporate purposes. In addition, we received a commitment letter from J.P. Morgan Bank on April 27, 2011 for a fully committed term loan of $415.0 million and a $50.0 million revolving credit facility, of which $37.5 million is committed. This commitment letter remains outstanding and available, subject to customary conditions, to fund the LoopNet acquisition and our ongoing working capital needs following the closing. However, we do not currently anticipate utilizing this commitment. The LoopNet transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act. As previously disclosed in the proxy statement/prospectus dated June 6, 2011, both CoStar and LoopNet filed notification and report forms with the Department of Justice and the FTC pursuant to the HSR Act, on May 31, 2011. As a result, the waiting period under the HSR Act with respect to the proposed merger between CoStar and LoopNet (the merger) was scheduled to expire on June 30, 2011. As previously reported in a Current Report on Form 8-K, on June 30, 2011, CoStar and LoopNet each received a request for additional information (commonly referred to as a second request) from the FTC with respect to the proposed merger. At the FTCs request, CoStar and LoopNet subsequently agreed to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act from 30 to 60 days after the date of substantial compliance with the second request unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the FTC. On November 4, 2011, each of the Company and LoopNet certified as to its substantial compliance with the second request. As previously disclosed on January 3, 2012, CoStar and LoopNet voluntarily agreed to further extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act on a 45-day rolling 33 basis to allow them to engage in discussions with the FTC to determine whether there is a possible basis for, and to discuss the possible terms of, a mutually acceptable consent order that would allow the merger to close. On January 31, 2012, CoStar and LoopNet mutually agreed to extend the date after which either party may individually elect to terminate the merger agreement from January 31, 2012 to April 30, 2012. While there can be no assurance that agreement on the terms of a possible consent order can be reached in a timely manner or at all, the Company believes the discussions with the FTC Staff are currently proceeding constructively and the Company is hopeful that they will in the near term result in an agreement with the FTC Staff on the terms of such a consent order, subject to FTC approval. In certain circumstances set forth in the LoopNet merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, LoopNet may be obligated to pay us a termination fee of $25.8 million. Similarly, in certain circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, we may be obligated to pay LoopNet a termination fee of $51.6 million. In light of our agreement to acquire LoopNet, we are currently evaluating how best to integrate the two businesses. We expect that while we await final antitrust approval of the transaction we will continue to assess and finalize any plans for additional investments in our business for the foreseeable future. At this time, we expect to continue to develop and distribute new services within our current platform. We expect to continue our efforts to integrate the combined capabilities of CoStars market and property information and PPRs analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technologys real estate investment software expertise. We also plan to continue efforts to integrate Virtual Premises real estate management solutions with CoStars business. While we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings for 2012 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, our proposed merger with LoopNet and the subsequent integration of our two businesses could reduce our profitability, cause us to generate losses and adversely affect our financial position. Further, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that will restrict our operations and use of our cash flow if the LoopNet acquisition is completed. Market Conditions There continue to be clear signs of improving conditions in the commercial real estate industry, including strong leasing activity and positive net absorption of office space. However, the extent and duration of continued improvement of the economy and the commercial real estate industry is unknown. Continuing risks related to lower than expected job growth, spiking energy costs and uncertainty over U.S. and global economic issues may impede the ability and willingness of clients to purchase services from us or result in reductions of services purchased. In some cases, the business operations of some of our clients continue to be negatively affected by challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and the world, resulting at times in business consolidations and, in some circumstances, business failure. If cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at reduced rates. We compete against many other commercial real estate information and analytic service providers for business. If customers choose to cancel our services for cost-cutting or other reasons, our revenue could decline. Financial Matters Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. We also believe it is important to evaluate our operating results before and after the effect of currency changes, as it may provide a more accurate comparison of our results of operations over historical periods. Currency exchange rate volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and period-to-period comparisons of our consolidated operations. We currently issue stock options and/or restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations. We plan to continue the use of stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock option grants that typically will require us to record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. 34 Property Developments On February 5, 2010, we took advantage of favorable market conditions and purchased an office building in downtown Washington, DC for $41.25 million for use as our new headquarters and have since relocated to this location (the DC Office Building). The lease for our previous headquarters in Bethesda, MD expired on October 15, 2010; therefore, we incurred overlapping occupancy costs through the end of the Bethesda lease term as we transitioned to our new headquarters. We were able to create value through our occupancy of the DC Office Building and on February 18, 2011 sold the building for aggregate consideration of $101.0 million, $15.0 million of which was designated to fund additional build-out and planned improvements at the building. Approximately $12.5 million of the $15.0 million additional build-out is recorded as a leasehold improvement in property and equipment. As part of the sale, we entered into a long-term lease with the buyer to lease back approximately 88% of the office space, where our corporate headquarters is expected to remain. During the third quarter of 2011, we incurred approximately $1.5 million of restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office with our Columbia, Maryland and Washington, DC offices. Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional, and FOCUS services currently generate approximately 94% of our total revenues. CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. The majority of our contracts for our subscription-based information services typically have a minimum term of one year and renew automatically. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the clients business focus, geography and the number of services to which a client subscribes. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. We recognize this revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our contract renewal rate for subscription-based services was approximately 93% and 90%, respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate was approximately 7% and 10%, respectively, for the same periods of time. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, further reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. 35 Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of December 31, 2011. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of December 31, 2011, we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $2.7 million. The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of December 31, 2011. However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Fair Value of Deferred Consideration We had no Level 3 liabilities as of December 31, 2011. As of December 31, 2010, we held Level 3 liabilities for deferred consideration related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. The deferred consideration totaled $3.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and included (i) a potential deferred cash payment two years after closing based on the incremental growth of Resolve Technologys revenue, and (ii) other potential deferred cash payments for successful completion of operational and sales milestones during the period from closing through October 31, 2013, which period may be extended by the parties to a date no later than December 31, 2014. On June 24, 2011, we made a payment to the seller of Resolve Technology of $500,000 as a result of the successful completion of one of the operational milestones. On September 8, 2011, we entered into an agreement to settle all remaining potential deferred cash payments due under the original agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, we made a payment of $1.6 million on September 14, 2011 to settle the entire obligation. We reversed the remaining $1.2 million originally recorded as deferred consideration by reducing general and administrative expense during the three months ended September 30, 2011. Prior to the settlement on September 8, 2011, we used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our Level 3 liabilities. The significant assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model included the discount rate, estimates for future incremental revenue growth and probabilities for completion of operational and sales milestones. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimated the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of the Companys stock price. 36 We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the twelve months ended December 31, 2011. However, if significant changes in these assumptions occur, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows of the carrying amounts of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, U.S. and International, as our reporting units under FASB authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our future financial performance and a weighted average cost of capital. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We measure impairment loss based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2011, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2011 that would indicate that the carrying value of either reporting unit may not be recoverable. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations. 37 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income (loss). In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income (loss) the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income (loss) or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income (loss). In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 24 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information and analytic services, which included acquisitions, our net income (loss) has included significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition costs and restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. 38 Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base and the diminishing value of any acquired trade names. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of net interest income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows or outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of net interest income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense (benefit) may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense (benefit) to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, net, and income tax expense (benefit) as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquisition. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of headquarters acquisition and transition related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the overlapping rent and building carrying costs, legal costs and other related costs incurred to relocate our headquarters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing charges related to our operating cost structure. 39 The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are stock-based compensation, acquisition-related costs, restructuring costs, headquarter acquisition and transition related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA along with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss). We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. We assume a 40% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 Net income $ 18,693 $ 13,289 $ 14,656 Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 2,389 1,471 1,353 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 3,412 2,305 2,237 Depreciation and other amortization 8,875 9,873 9,262 Interest income, net (1,253 ) (735 ) (798 ) Income tax expense, net 14,395 10,221 7,913 EBITDA $ 46,511 $ 36,424 $ 34,623 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 38,445 $ 39,269 $ 25,685 Investing activities $ 4,532 $ (40,504 ) $ 58,366 Financing activities $ 2,172 $ 2,042 $ 254,780 40 Consolidated Results of Operations The following table provides our selected consolidated results of operations for the indicated periods (in thousands of dollars and as a percentage of total revenue): Year Ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 Revenues $ 209,659 100.0 % $ 226,260 100.0 % $ 251,738 100.0 % Cost of revenues 73,714 35.2 83,599 36.9 88,167 35.0 Gross margin 135,945 64.8 142,661 63.1 163,571 65.0 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 42,508 20.3 52,455 23.2 61,164 24.3 Software development 13,942 6.6 17,350 7.7 20,037 8.0 General and administrative 44,248 21.1 47,776 21.1 58,362 23.2 Purchase amortization 3,412 1.6 2,305 1.0 2,237 0.9 Total operating expenses 104,110 49.7 119,886 53.0 141,800 56.4 Income from operations 31,835 15.2 22,775 10.1 21,771 8.6 Interest and other income, net 1,253 0.6 735 0.3 798 0.3 Income before income taxes 33,088 15.8 23,510 10.4 22,569 8.9 Income tax expense, net 14,395 6.9 10,221 4.5 7,913 3.1 Net income $ 18,693 8.9 % $ 13,289 5.9 % $ 14,656 5.8 % Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2011 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 Revenues . Revenues increased to $251.7 million in 2011, from $226.3 million in 2010. The increase in revenues of approximately $25.4 million is primarily attributable to further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional and FOCUS, currently generate approximately 94% of our total revenues. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $163.6 million in 2011, from $142.7 million in 2010. The gross margin percentage increased to 65.0% in 2011, from 63.1% in 2010. The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was principally due to a $25.4 million increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $88.2 million in 2011, from $83.6 million in 2010. The increase in cost of revenues was principally due to an increase in research personnel costs. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $61.2 million in 2011, from $52.5 million in 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 24.3% in 2011, from 23.2% in 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to an increase in sales personnel costs of approximately $4.9 million and the marketing effort related to the launch of CoStarGo of approximately $3.4 million. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $20.0 million in 2011, from $17.4 million in 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 8.0% in 2011, from 7.7% in 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expense was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support new development efforts. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $58.4 million in 2011, from $47.8 million in 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.2% in 2011, from 21.1% in 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was principally due to the incurrence of approximately $14.2 million in acquisition-related costs in connection with the pending LoopNet acquisition, and approximately $1.5 million in lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office. These increases are partially offset by the deferred consideration adjustment of approximately $1.2 million in September 2011 related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Additionally, during 2010 we incurred expenses that did not recur in 2011, including the $2.0 million accrual of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited 41 in June 2010, approximately $800,000 accrued in anticipation of the settlement of the litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California in June 2010, as well as the lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our Boston, Massachusetts office of approximately $1.3 million in September 2010. Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization remained relatively constant at approximately $2.2 million in 2011, from $2.3 million in 2010. Interest and Other Income, Net. Interest and other income, net remained relatively constant at approximately $800,000 in 2011, compared to approximately $700,000 in 2010. Income Tax Expense, Net. Income tax expense, net decreased to $7.9 million in 2011, from $10.2 million in 2010. This decrease was primarily due to tax benefits resulting from the move of our headquarters to Washington, DC. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2011 and Year Ended December 31, 2010 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being the U.S. and International, which includes the U.K. and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. U.S. revenues increased to $233.4 million from $208.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. International revenues increased to $18.4 million from $17.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. This increase was primarily due to foreign currency fluctuations. Intersegment revenue remained relatively constant at $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $1.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Intersegment revenue is attributable to services performed for the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, PPR, by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of PPR. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount the Company believes approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA decreased to $38.1 million from $39.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The decrease in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to approximately $14.2 million in acquisition-related costs for the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of the pending LoopNet acquisition, approximately $1.5 million in lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office, approximately $3.4 million due to the marketing effort related to the launch of CoStarGo as well as increased personnel costs of approximately $11.0 million. These decreases in U.S. EBITDA are partially offset by an approximate $24.9 million increase in revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011 from the year ended December 31, 2010 and the deferred consideration adjustment of approximately $1.2 million in September 2011 related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Additionally, during 2010 we incurred expenses that did not recur in 2011, including approximately $800,000 accrued in anticipation of the settlement of the litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California in June 2010 as well as the lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our Boston, Massachusetts office of approximately $1.3 million in September 2010. International EBITDA decreased to a higher loss of $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 from a $3.2 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2010. This higher loss was primarily due to increased personnel costs of approximately $1.5 million and other expenses of approximately $800,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011, partially offset by approximately $2.0 million connection with the settlement of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited in 2010 that did not recur in 2011. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $800,000 and $400,000 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. 42 Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 Revenues . Revenues increased to $226.3 million in 2010, from $209.7 million in 2009. The increase in revenues of approximately $16.6 million is primarily due to additional revenue from our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional and FOCUS. As of December 31, 2010, our subscription-based information services represented more than 94% of our total revenues. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $142.7 million in 2010, from $135.9 million in 2009. The increase in the amount of gross margin was principally due to a $16.6 million increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. The gross margin percentage decreased to 63.1% in 2010, from 64.8% in 2009. The decrease in the percentage of gross margin was principally due to an increase in the cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $83.6 million in 2010, from $73.7 million in 2009. The increase in cost of revenues was principally due to additional cost of revenues of approximately $7.4 million included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR and our October 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $52.5 million in 2010, from $42.5 million in 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.2% in 2010, from 20.3% in 2009. The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to increased costs of approximately $6.1 million due to increased sales personnel costs, as well as additional selling and marketing expenses of approximately $1.7 million included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR and our October 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $17.4 million in 2010, from $13.9 million in 2009, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 7.7% in 2010, from 6.6% in 2009. The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expense was primarily due to additional software development expenses included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR and our October 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $47.8 million in 2010, from $44.2 million in 2009, and remained relatively constant as a percentage of revenues at 21.1% in 2010 and 2009. The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was principally due to $2.8 million recorded for the settlement of two litigation matters in June 2010, the 2010 lease restructuring charge of approximately $1.3 million, and additional general and administrative expense of approximately $2.0 million included as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR and our October 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $3.0 million. Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization decreased to $2.3 million in 2010, from $3.4 million in 2009, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 1.0% in 2010, from 1.6% in 2009. The decrease in purchase amortization expense is due to the completion of amortization for certain identifiable intangible assets in 2010. Interest and Other Income, Net. Interest and other income, net decreased to approximately $700,000 in 2010, from $1.3 million in 2009, primarily due to lower short-term investment balances. Income Tax Expense, Net. Income tax expense, net decreased to $10.2 million in 2010, from $14.4 million in 2009. This decrease was primarily due to lower income before income taxes. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Year Ended December 31, 2010 and Year Ended December 31, 2009 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being the U.S. and International, which includes the U.K. and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment 43 EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. U.S. revenues increased to $208.5 million from $191.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to additional revenues as a result of our July 2009 acquisition of PPR. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. International revenues decreased approximately $300,000 primarily due to foreign currency fluctuations, offset by intersegment revenues of approximately $1.3 million attributable to services performed by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd. for PPR. PPR and Property and Portfolio Research Ltd. were acquired in July 2009. Intersegment revenues are eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA decreased to $39.6 million from $47.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The decrease in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to additional personnel cost of approximately $8.1 million, increased legal settlement charges of approximately $800,000, and a lease restructuring charge of approximately $1.3 million related to the consolidation of our three facilities located in Boston, Massachusetts, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense of approximately $2.2 million. International EBITDA increased to a loss of $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 from a $1.2 million loss for the year ended December 31, 2009. This increased loss was primarily due to approximately $2.0 million paid in connection with the settlement of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $400,000 and $500,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. Consolidated Quarterly Results of Operations The following tables summarize our consolidated results of operations on a quarterly basis for the indicated periods (in thousands, except per share amounts, and as a percentage of total revenues): 2010 2011 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues $ 55,093 $ 55,838 $ 57,144 $ 58,185 $ 59,618 $ 62,127 $ 63,829 $ 66,164 Cost of revenues 21,200 20,360 20,762 21,277 22,566 22,412 21,175 22,014 Gross margin 33,893 35,478 36,382 36,908 37,052 39,715 42,654 44,150 Operating expenses 28,791 30,987 30,247 29,861 29,956 35,806 39,650 36,388 Income from operations 5,102 4,491 6,135 7,047 7,096 3,909 3,004 7,762 Interest and other income, net 238 196 156 145 202 178 194 224 Income before income taxes 5,340 4,687 6,291 7,192 7,298 4,087 3,198 7,986 Income tax expense, net 2,451 1,436 2,909 3,425 2,766 1,450 887 2,810 Net income $ 2,889 $ 3,251 $ 3,382 $ 3,767 $ 4,532 $ 2,637 $ 2,311 $ 5,176 Net income per share - basic $ 0.14 $ 0.16 $ 0.17 $ 0.18 $ 0.22 $ 0.12 $ 0.09 $ 0.21 Net income per share - diluted $ 0.14 $ 0.16 $ 0.16 $ 0.18 $ 0.22 $ 0.12 $ 0.09 $ 0.20 44 2010 2011 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Mar. 31 Jun. 30 Sep. 30 Dec. 31 Revenues 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenues 38.5 36.5 36.3 36.6 37.9 36.1 33.2 33.3 Gross margin 61.5 63.5 63.7 63.4 62.1 63.9 66.8 66.7 Operating expenses 52.3 55.5 52.9 51.3 50.2 57.6 62.1 55.0 Income from operations 9.3 8.0 10.7 12.1 11.9 6.3 4.7 11.7 Interest and other income, net 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Income before income taxes 9.7 8.4 11.0 12.4 12.2 6.6 5.0 12.0 Income tax expense, net 4.4 2.6 5.1 5.9 4.6 2.4 1.4 4.2 Net income 5.2 % 5.8 % 5.9 % 6.5 % 7.6 % 4.2 % 3.6 % 7.8 % Recent Acquisitions Virtual Premise . On October 25, 2011, we acquired Virtual Premise, a SaaS provider of real estate information management solutions. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement, we paid approximately $17.2 million in cash, approximately 80% of which was paid on the closing date to the Virtual Premise stockholders and the remaining 20% of which will be held in escrow until paid 270 days after the closing date, subject to use of such funds to satisfy any post-closing net working capital adjustments or indemnification claims made prior to such date. The purchase price was later reduced by approximately $200,000 after taking into account post-closing purchase price adjustments and this amount is expected to be paid to us from the escrow fund. Accounting Treatment . We have applied the acquisition method to account for the Virtual Premise transaction which requires that, among other things, assets acquired and liabilities assumed be recorded at their fair values as of the acquisition date. The purchase price was allocated to tradenames, customer base, database technology, goodwill and various other asset and liability accounts. The acquired customer base for the acquisitions, which consists of one distinct intangible asset and is composed of acquired customer contracts and the related customer relationships, is being amortized on a 125% declining balance method over ten years. The identified intangibles are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Goodwill for these acquisitions is not amortized, but is subject to annual impairment tests. The results of operations of Virtual Premise have been consolidated with those of the Company since the date of the acquisition and are not considered material to our consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, pro forma financial information has not been presented for the acquisition. The purchase accounting is preliminary and is subject to change. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $548.8 million at December 31, 2011 compared to $210.1 million at December 31, 2010. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the year ended December 31, 2011 was primarily due to $247.9 million in net proceeds from our equity offering in June 2011 of 4,312,500 shares of common stock for $60.00 per share. In addition, in February 2011, we sold the 169,429 square-foot office building located at 1331 L Street, NW, in downtown Washington, DC for $101.0 million in cash, $15.0 million of which was designated to fund additional build-out and planned improvements at the building. Changes in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises, purchases and sales of short-term investments and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $25.7 million compared to $39.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The $13.6 million decrease in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to a decrease of approximately $21.3 million from net income plus non-cash items partially offset by a $7.7 million net increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities due to differences in timing of collection of receipts and payments of disbursements. The $21.3 million decrease from net income plus non-cash items was primarily related to a decrease in changes in deferred income taxes, net of approximately $18.8 million. The change in deferred income taxes, net of $18.8 million is primarily comprised of approximately $13.5 million related to the tax treatment of the deferred gain on the sale of the building and approximately $5.4 million related to the tax 45 treatment of acquisition related costs associated with the pending LoopNet acquisition. The $7.7 million net increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily related to an increase in changes in income tax receivable of approximately $9.0 million partially offset by a decrease in changes in accounts payable and other liabilities of approximately $2.7 million. The increase in changes in income tax receivable of approximately $9.0 million was due to the 2011 collection of approximately $4.1 million of the $4.9 million income tax receivable recorded in 2010, as the tax legislation enacted during the fourth quarter of 2010 allowed us to deduct 100% of qualifying assets purchased after September 8, 2010. The decrease in changes in accounts payable and other liabilities of approximately $2.7 million was primarily due to the $2.1 million payment made for the deferred consideration for the year ended December 31, 2011, as a result of the settlement of the deferred consideration related to the Companys October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for details of the deferred consideration settlement. Net cash provided by investing activities was $58.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $40.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This $98.9 million increased change in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily due to the sale of our new headquarters in downtown Washington, DC, in February 2011 as well as the February 2010 purchase of that building partially offset by the acquisition of Virtual Premise. Net cash provided by financing activities was $254.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This $252.8 million increase in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to the equity offering of 4,312,500 shares of common stock for $60.00 per share completed in June 2011. Net proceeds from the equity offering were approximately $247.9 million, after deducting approximately $10.4 million of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses of approximately $500,000. Contractual Obligations . The following table summarizes our principal contractual obligations at December 31, 2011 and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Total 2012 2013-2014 2015-2016 2017 and thereafter Operating leases $ 124,274 $ 13,420 $ 20,206 $ 17,794 $ 72,854 Purchase obligations (1) 8,625 5,915 2,710 Total contractual principal cash obligations $ 132,899 $ 19,335 $ 22,916 $ 17,794 $ 72,854 (1) Amounts do not include (i) contracts with terms of twelve months or less, or (ii) multi-year contracts that may be terminated by a third party or us. Amounts do not include unrecognized tax benefits of $2.2 million due to uncertainty regarding the timing of future cash payments. Concurrent with the sale of the 169,429 square-foot office building located at 1331 L Street, NW, in downtown Washington, DC, we entered into a lease with GLL L-Street 1331, LLC (GLL) to lease back 149,514 square feet of the office space located in the building for use as our corporate headquarters. The lease will expire May 31, 2025 (subject to two 5-year renewal options). The initial base rent is $38.50 per square foot of occupied space, escalating 2.5% per year commencing June 1, 2011. Minimum lease payments will be approximately $6.0 million, $6.1 million, $6.3 million, $6.4 million and $6.6 million for fiscal years 2012 through 2016, respectively, and a total of $62.6 million from 2017 to the end of the lease term. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our operating results, expansion efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. During 2011, we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $15.0 million. We expect to make capital expenditures in 2012 of approximately $15.0 million to $20.0 million. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. 46 On October 25, 2011, we acquired Virtual Premise, a SaaS provider of real estate information management solutions located in Atlanta, Georgia. Pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement, we paid approximately $17.2 million in cash, approximately 80% of which was paid on the closing date and the remaining 20% of which will be held in escrow until paid 270 days after the closing date, subject to use of such funds to satisfy any post-closing net working capital adjustments or indemnification claims made prior to such date. The purchase price was later reduced by approximately $200,000 after taking into account post-closing purchase price adjustments and this amount is expected to be paid from the escrow fund to the Company. On April 27, 2011, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire LoopNet. Pursuant to the merger agreement, (a) each outstanding share of LoopNet common stock will be converted into a unit consisting of (i) $16.50 in cash, without interest and (ii) 0.03702 shares of CoStar common stock, and (b) each outstanding share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, unless previously converted into LoopNet common stock, will be converted into a unit consisting of (i) the product of 148.80952 multiplied by the Cash Consideration and (ii) the product of 148.80952 multiplied by the Stock Consideration, representing a total equity value of approximately $860.0 million and an enterprise value of $762.0 million as of April 27, 2011. The holders of LoopNets Series A Convertible Preferred Stock delivered contingent conversion notices to LoopNet pursuant to which such shares will be converted into LoopNet common stock immediately prior to, and contingent upon, the completion of the merger. On April 27, 2011, we received a commitment letter from J.P. Morgan Bank for a fully committed term loan of $415.0 million and a $50.0 million revolving credit facility, of which $37.5 million are committed, which will be available, subject to customary conditions, to fund the LoopNet acquisition and the ongoing working capital needs of CoStar and its subsidiaries following the transaction. In June 2011, we completed an equity offering and received net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million. We intend to use these proceeds to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable in connection with the acquisition of LoopNet. On February 16, 2012, we entered into a Credit Agreement by and among CoStar, as borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc., as co-borrower, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Bank, as administrative agent. The Credit Agreement provides for a $175.0 million term loan facility and a $50.0 million revolving credit facility, each with a term of five years. The obligation of the lenders to make the loans under the Credit Agreement is subject to the simultaneous closing of the merger with LoopNet and the satisfaction of certain other conditions precedent. We expect to use the proceeds of the term loan facility on the date on which such conditions are satisfied along with net proceeds from the equity offering in June 2011 to pay a portion of the merger consideration and transaction costs related to the merger. The proceeds of the revolving credit facility may be used, on the closing date, to pay for transaction costs related to the merger and, thereafter, for working capital and other general corporate purposes of CoStar and its subsidiaries. The original commitment letter from J.P. Morgan Bank received on April 27, 2011 remains outstanding and available, subject to customary conditions, to fund the LoopNet acquisition and the ongoing working capital needs of CoStar and its subsidiaries following the LoopNet transaction until the earlier of funding of the term loan facility into escrow pursuant to the Credit Agreement, if applicable, and the business day after the beginning of the marketing period under the merger agreement. However, we do not currently anticipate utilizing that original commitment. In connection with obtaining the facility pursuant to the Credit Agreement, we expect to incur approximately $10.6 million in debt issuance costs, which will be capitalized and amortized as interest expense over the term of the Credit Agreement using the effective interest method. The debt issuance costs will be comprised of approximately $9.1 million in underwriting fees and approximately $1.5 million primarily related to legal fees associated with the debt issuance. We have incurred approximately $900,000 in debt issuance costs as of December 31, 2011and have paid approximately $300,000. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including antitrust clearance. We have expensed approximately $14.2 million in acquisition-related costs in general and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 as a result of the pending LoopNet acquisition, of which we have paid approximately $13.4 million and expect to pay the remaining balance in 2012. We expect to incur approximately $1.0 million to $3.0 million in additional acquisition-related costs. The holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of LoopNets common stock and Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class on an as-converted basis, approved the adoption of the merger agreement on July 11, 2011. The transaction is not subject to a financing condition. In certain circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, LoopNet may be obligated to pay us a termination fee of $25.8 million. Similarly, in certain circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, we may be obligated to pay LoopNet a termination fee of $51.6 million. We are not in a position yet to estimate the financial impact the proposed merger will have on our operations. 47 We engaged J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (J.P. Morgan) to act as our financial advisor in connection with the acquisition. We are obligated to pay $4.0 million to J.P. Morgan if the acquisition closes. Completion of the merger remains subject to the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act and other customary closing conditions. As of December 31, 2011, the parties have not yet reached agreement with the FTC on the terms of a consent order with the FTC, and there can be no assurance that such agreement will be reached in a timely manner or at all. Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of December 31, 2011, we had $27.3 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investments below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance related to the initial recognition, measurement and subsequent accounting for assets and liabilities arising from pre-acquisition contingencies in a business combination. It requires that such assets acquired or liabilities assumed be initially recognized at fair value at the acquisition date if fair value can be determined during the measurement period. When fair value cannot be determined, companies should typically account for the acquired contingencies using existing guidance. This guidance requires that companies expense acquisition and deal-related costs that were previously allowed to be capitalized. This guidance also requires that a systematic and rational basis for subsequently measuring and accounting for the assets or liabilities be developed depending on their nature. This guidance was effective for contingent assets or liabilities arising from business combinations with an acquisition date on or after January 1, 2009. The adoption of this guidance changes the accounting treatment and disclosure for certain specific items in a business combination with an acquisition date subsequent to December 31, 2008. We adopted this guidance on January 1, 2009, and began expensing acquisition and deal-related costs in 2009 based on the issued authoritative guidance. In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance for determining whether a market is active or inactive, and whether a transaction is distressed. This guidance is applicable to all assets and liabilities (financial and non-financial) and requires enhanced disclosures. We adopted this guidance for our interim period ending June 30, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require additional disclosures in our financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance requiring disclosures in interim reporting periods concerning the fair value of financial instruments that were previously only required in the annual financial statements. We adopted the provisions of this guidance for our interim period ending June 30, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require additional disclosures in our financial statements. In April 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that redefines what constitutes an other-than-temporary impairment, defines credit and non-credit components of an other-than-temporary impairment, prescribes their financial statement treatment, and requires enhanced disclosures relating to such impairments. We adopted this guidance for our interim period ending June 30, 2009. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require additional disclosures in our financial statements. In May 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued. This guidance was effective for all interim and annual reporting periods ending after June 15, 2009. This guidance has not resulted in significant changes in the subsequent events that we report, either through recognition or disclosure, in our financial statements. 48 In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to amend the manner in which entities evaluate whether consolidation is required for variable interest entities (VIE). Previously, variable interest holders were required to determine whether they had a controlling financial interest in a VIE based on a quantitative analysis of the expected gains and/or losses of the entity. The new guidance requires an enterprise with a variable interest in a VIE to qualitatively assess whether it has a controlling financial interest in the entity, and if so, whether it is the primary beneficiary. This guidance also requires that companies continually evaluate VIEs for consolidation, rather than assessing whether consolidation is required based upon the occurrence of triggering events. This guidance enhances disclosures to provide financial statement users with greater transparency about transfers of financial assets and a transferors continuing involvement with transferred financial assets. This guidance is effective for the first annual reporting period beginning after November 15, 2009. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or related disclosures. In June 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance which replaced the previous hierarchy of U.S. GAAP and establishes the FASB Accounting Standards Codification as the single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP recognized by the FASB to be applied by nongovernmental entities. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require changes to our disclosures in our financial statements. In July 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the consistency with which companies apply fair value measurements guidance to liabilities. This guidance is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after September 30, 2009. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or related disclosures. In October 2009, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amends existing guidance for identifying separate deliverables in a revenue-generating transaction where multiple deliverables exist, and provides guidance for measuring and allocating revenue to one or more units of accounting. In addition, the FASB issued authoritative guidance on arrangements that include software elements. Under this guidance, tangible products containing software components and non-software components that are essential to the functionality of the tangible product will no longer be within the scope of the software revenue recognition guidance. This guidance is effective using the prospective application or the retrospective application for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010 with earlier application permitted. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. In January 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amends the disclosure requirements related to recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements. This guidance requires new disclosures on the transfers of assets and liabilities between Level 1 (assets and liabilities measured using observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets) and Level 2 (assets and liabilities measured using inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable) of the fair value measurement hierarchy, including the amount and reason of the transfers. Additionally, this guidance requires a roll forward of activities on purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements of the assets and liabilities measured using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3 fair value measurements). This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, with the exception of the additional disclosure for Level 3 assets and liabilities, which is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require changes to our disclosures in our interim and annual financial statements. In February 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance that amends the disclosure requirements related to subsequent events. This guidance includes the definition of a Securities and Exchange Commission filer, removes the definition of a public entity, redefines the reissuance disclosure requirements and allows public companies to omit the disclosure of the date through which subsequent events have been evaluated. This guidance is effective for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after February 2010. This guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but did require changes to our disclosures in our financial statements. 49 In April 2010, the FASB issued authoritative guidance related to the criteria that should be met for determining whether the milestone method of revenue recognition is appropriate. A vendor can recognize consideration that is contingent upon achievement of a milestone in its entirety as revenue in the period in which the milestone is achieved if the milestone is: (a) commensurate with either the vendors performance to achieve the milestone or the enhancement of the value of the item delivered; (b) relates solely to past performance; and (c) is reasonable relative to all deliverables and payment terms in the arrangement. This guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2010, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this guidance did not have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. In May 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to develop common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This guidance clarifies the intent of the existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and modifies principles and requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurement. This guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance is not expected to materially impact our results of operations or financial position, but will require changes to the disclosures in our interim and annual financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. This guidance requires changes in stockholders equity to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components followed consecutively by a second statement that should present total other comprehensive income, the components of other comprehensive income and the total of comprehensive income. This guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but will require changes to the consolidated statement of stockholders equity and the addition of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. In September 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify how companies test goodwill for impairment. The guidance permits a company to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. This guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position. In December 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to defer the effective date pertaining to the presentation of reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income previously established in the authoritative guidance issued in June 2011. This guidance also defers the presentation of the effect of those reclassification adjustments on the face of the financial statements where net income is presented, by component of net income, and on the face of the financial statements where other comprehensive income is presented, by component of other comprehensive income. This guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011.This guidance is not expected to have a material impact on our results of operations or financial position, but will require changes to the disclosures in our interim and annual financial statements.