Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2 and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, as well as those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytics and online marketplaces to the commercial real estate industry in the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.) based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S. based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; and provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors. We created and compiled our standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate, including apartments, and the related business communities can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based services rather than charging fees based on actual system usage or number of paid clicks. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use and hospitality. Depending on the type of service, contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, geography, the number and types of services to which a client subscribes, the number of properties a client advertises and the prominence and placement of a client's advertised properties in the search results, as applicable. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees in advance on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us in advance on a quarterly or annual basis. We also provide market research, portfolio and debt analysis, management and reporting capabilities, and real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, to commercial customers, real estate investors and lenders via our other service offerings. Our principal information, analytics and online marketplace services are described in the following paragraphs by type of service: Information and Analytics CoStar Suite . Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Suite services. CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile applications, CoStar Mobile App and CoStar Go. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, information about properties for sale, tenant information, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships and industry news. 27 Information services . We provide real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our CoStar Real Estate Manager service offerings, as well as, portfolio and debt analysis, management and reporting capabilities through our CoStar Investment Analysis and CoStar Risk Analytics service offerings. We also provide information services internationally, through our Grecam, Belbex and Thomas Daily businesses in France, Spain and Germany, respectively. Online Marketplaces Multifamily . Apartments.com TM is part of our network of apartment marketing sites, which also includes ApartmentFinder.com TM , ForRent.com, ApartmentHomeLiving.com TM , WestsideRentals.com , AFTER55.com, CorporateHousing.com TM , ForRentUniversity.com and Apartamentos.com TM , our apartment-listing site offered exclusively in Spanish. Our apartment marketing network of subscription-based services offers renters a searchable database of apartment listings and provides professional property management companies and landlords with an advertising destination. On February 21, 2018, we completed the acquisition of ForRent, a division of Dominion Enterprises, including the ForRent.com, AFTER55.com, CorporateHousing.com and ForRentUniversity.com apartment marketing sites. We continue to integrate, develop and cross-sell the services offered by ForRent. During the remaining quarters in 2019, we expect a lower multifamily year-over-year revenue growth rate compared to our results for the current period due to the lapsing of the acquisition anniversary date, continued integration of our service offerings and the discontinuation of certain ForRent products which were included in our 2018 results. On November 8, 2018, we acquired Cozy Services, Ltd. ("Cozy"), a leading provider of online rental solutions that provides a broad spectrum of services to both landlords and tenants, including property listings, rent estimates, rental applications, tenant screening, online rent payments and expense tracking. See Note 4 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of Cozy. Commercial property and land . Our LoopNet subscription-based, online marketplace services enable commercial property owners, landlords and real estate agents working on their behalf to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants use LoopNet's online marketplace services to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. On October 12, 2018, we acquired all of the issued share capital of Realla Ltd. ("Realla"), the operator of a commercial property listings and data management platform in the U.K., including a free-to-list search engine for commercial property listings. See Note 4 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the acquisition of Realla. Our BizBuySell services, which include BizQuest , provide an online marketplace for businesses for sale. Our Land.com network of sites, which provides online marketplaces for rural lands for sale, includes LandsofAmerica, LandAndFarm and LandWatch. As of March 31, 2019 and 2018 , our annualized net bookings of subscription-based services on all contracts was approximately $48 million and $35 million , respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from all new subscription-based contracts or upsales on all existing subscription-based contracts, less write downs and cancellations, for the period reported. We recognize subscription revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Net bookings is considered a key indicator of future subscription revenue growth and is also used as a metric of salesforce productivity by management and investors. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services on annual contracts was approximately 90% , as compared with 91% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , and therefore our cancellation rates for those services for those same periods were approximately 10% and 9% , respectively. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if, among other reasons, negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Development, Investments and Expansion We are committed to supporting, improving and enhancing our information, news, analytics and online marketplace solutions, including expanding and improving our offerings for property managers and renters. We expect to continue our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate and cross-sell services, and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. We have been, and plan to continue, integrating, further developing and cross-selling our services. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for our listing sites, we utilize a multi-channel marketing campaign, including television and radio advertising, online/digital advertising, social media and out-of-home ads, and search engine marketing. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing, consistent with recent historical 28 levels, to promote our listing sites in 2019. As we continue to assess the success and effectiveness of our marketing campaign, we will continue to determine the optimal level of marketing investment for our services for future periods. Our key priorities for 2019 include: Continuing to develop new, and improve existing, online rental property service offerings for the apartments industry. We plan to utilize acquired platforms, including Cozy, along with our previously developed and newly developed technologies, to create a complete digital rental experience that enables renters to apply for leases, landlords to run tenant credit and background checks and landlords and tenants to generate and enter into leases and to make and process payments, all online through a single platform. Continuing to develop and enhance CoStar Suite by making additional investments in analytical capabilities and developing products offerings with new capabilities focused on owners and lenders of commercial real estate. We also plan to invest in integrating the technology and infrastructure from other existing products into the CoStar Suite platform, including CoStar Real Estate Manager, in order to leverage data across our platforms and provide customers with additional functionality. We plan to invest further in our daily newsletter for U.S. subscribers, including providing curated content to our largest markets and more personalized information. Continuing to invest in the LoopNet marketplace by enhancing the content on the site, including high-quality imagery, seeking targeted advertisements and adding more content for premium listings, to better meet the needs of a broader cross section of the commercial real estate industry. Continuing to invest in our research operations to support continued growth of our information and analytics offerings. In furtherance of both of these priorities, we plan to continue to generate awareness and promote usage of Listing Manager, an online tool that allows customers with CoStar or LoopNet listings to update and manage their listings directly online. LoopNet users can also monitor listing performance, access lead and prospect reports, and upgrade exposure of their listings. We expect the use of this tool to result in more updates made directly by brokers and owners entering data directly into the self-service tool, which we believe will result in significant long-term cost savings and better quality data. Continuing to invest in the growth of our international business. We plan to integrate Realla with our CoStar U.K. operations, including development of a single point of data entry to allow our clients to simultaneously arrange to display their commercial real estate listings through the CoStar Suite service offering and to also make them visible to prospective tenants and investors through Reallas marketing portal. We intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business, in addition to the investments discussed above, in order to develop and distribute new services and functionality within our current platform or expand the reach of our current service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services or corporate expansion, development or restructuring efforts could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to experience reduced revenues or generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Any development efforts must comply with our credit facility, which contains restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow and may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include net income before interest and other income (expense), loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA is our net income before interest and other income (expense), loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income is determined by adjusting our net income for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business and loss on debt extinguishment, as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, and then subtracting an assumed provision for income taxes. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities 29 and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income is net income. We believe the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to non-GAAP net income per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA margin are net income per diluted share and net income divided by revenue, respectively. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income and net income per diluted share. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and accompanying reconciliations, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 30 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytics and online marketplace services, which has included acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, and loss on debt extinguishment. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs; settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs; loss on debt extinguishment and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of financial items that have been excluded from net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the diminishing value of any acquired trade names and other intangible assets and the use of our acquired technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. 30 Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest and other income and expense we generate and incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows and outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest and other income and expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of loss on our debt extinguishment may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents losses from the early extinguishment of debt. However, we do not consider the amount of the loss on debt extinguishment to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of additional financial items that have been excluded from EBITDA to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to acquisitions. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle, we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters or impairments on acquired intangible assets. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because such costs generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in a contract or a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring and related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income. In addition to these exclusions, we subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2019 and 2018 , we assumed a 25% tax rate which approximated our historical long-term statutory corporate tax rate, excluding the impact of discrete items. Adjusted EBITDA margin represents adjusted EBITDA divided by revenues for the period. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. 31 The following table shows our net income reconciled to our EBITDA and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Net income $ 85,169 $ 52,231 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues 5,513 4,608 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses 7,682 5,803 Depreciation and other amortization 6,464 6,572 Interest and other income (4,945 ) (2,987 ) Interest and other expense 732 690 Income tax expense 12,536 3,511 EBITDA $ 113,151 $ 70,428 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 148,494 $ 72,985 Investing activities (9,429 ) (348,691 ) Financing activities (6,618 ) (4,776 ) 32 Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 The following table provides a comparison of our selected consolidated results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 Increase (Decrease) ($) Increase (Decrease) (%) Revenues: CoStar Suite $ 147,701 $ 130,361 $ 17,340 13 % Information services 18,850 15,060 3,790 25 Multifamily 114,268 87,683 26,585 30 Commercial property and land 47,606 40,614 6,992 17 Total revenues 328,425 273,718 54,707 20 Cost of revenues 71,153 62,477 8,676 14 Gross profit 257,272 211,241 46,031 22 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing (excluding customer base amortization) 88,094 88,490 (396 ) Software development 27,928 22,913 5,015 22 General and administrative 40,076 40,590 (514 ) (1 ) Customer base amortization 7,682 5,803 1,879 32 Total operating expenses 163,780 157,796 5,984 4 Income from operations 93,492 53,445 40,047 75 Interest and other income 4,945 2,987 1,958 66 Interest and other expense (732 ) (690 ) 42 (6 ) Income before income taxes 97,705 55,742 41,963 75 Income tax expense 12,536 3,511 9,025 NM Net income $ 85,169 $ 52,231 $ 32,938 63 __________________________ NM - Not meaningful Revenues. Revenues increased to $328 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $274 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The $55 million increase was primarily attributable to a 30% year-over-year increase in multifamily revenues of approximately $27 million , driven by the inclusion of the operations of ForRent for the full three months ended March 31, 2019 and organic growth as a result of our prior year marketing campaign for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . CoStar Suite revenue increased $17 million , or 13% , due to continued organic growth. Commercial property and land revenue increased $7 million , or 17% , primarily due to growth in our LoopNet online marketplace services of $5 million, as well as, growth in our land and business for sale products of $2 million. Information Services revenue increased $4 million , or 25% , primarily due to an increase of $6 million from our CoStar Real Estate Manager offering, partially offset by lower sales on other information services offerings. Gross Profit . Gross profit increased to $257 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $211 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The gross profit percentage was 78% compared to 77% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Investment in research to further support our products and services led to an increase in costs of revenues of $9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily due to additional research personnel costs of $4 million and data and content costs of $2 million. There was also an increase of $1 million in additional occupancy costs and $1 million due to amortization of acquired intangible assets from the acquisition of ForRent. 33 Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses remained consistent for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 as a result of an increase of $7 million in marketing costs for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , of which $2 million was related to increased search engine marketing, offset by a $5 million decrease in personnel costs and a $2 million decrease in costs related to conferences. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $28 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $23 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from 8% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in the amount of software development expense was primarily due to a $5 million increase in personnel costs and $1 million increase in occupancy costs. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses decreased to $40 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $41 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 12% from 15% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in professional services costs of $5 million for legal fees and implementation costs for our financial systems, partially offset by a $2 million increase in personnel costs. Customer Base Amortization Expense . Customer base amortization expense increased to $8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , and remained consistent as a percentage of revenues at 2% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 . The increase in the amount of amortization expense was primarily due to the amortization of the ForRent customer base intangible assets acquired on February 21, 2018. Interest and Other Income . Interest and other income increased to $5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily due to higher average cash and cash equivalent balances during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense remained consistent for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , and primarily consists of commitment fees and amortization of debt issuance costs. Income Tax Expense . Income tax expense increased to $13 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase was primarily due to higher income before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , partially offset by an increase in excess tax benefits. The amounts for other discrete items for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were consistent. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 and Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which includes the U.K., Spain, Germany and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenues and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest and other income (expense), loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $319 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , from $265 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This increase in North America revenues was primarily due to increased multifamily revenues resulting from the acquisition of ForRent and organic growth from our prior year marketing campaign, as well as, organic growth for CoStar Suite. International revenues remained consistent at $9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. Segment EBITDA . North America EBITDA increased to $115 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 from $71 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The increase in North America EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenues. International EBITDA decreased to a loss of $2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to a loss of $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The decrease in International EBITDA was primarily due to higher personnel and marketing costs. 34 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, cash from operations and the availability of funds from our revolving credit facility. Total cash and cash equivalents increased to $1.2 billion as of March 31, 2019 , compared to cash and cash equivalents of $1.1 billion as of December 31, 2018 . The increase in cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was primarily due to net cash generated from operations of $148 million and proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of approximately $12 million , partially offset by cash paid for purchases of property and equipment of $9 million and repurchases of restricted stock to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations upon vesting of restricted stock awards valued at approximately $19 million . Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was approximately $148 million compared to approximately $73 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The $75 million increase was mainly due to an increase in net income of $33 million , the timing of payments related to accrued expenses, and an increase in income taxes payable. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was approximately $9 million compared to approximately $349 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This $340 million decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to approximately $340 million cash paid to acquire ForRent during the three months ended March 31, 2018 . During the three months ended March 31, 2019 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $9 million compared to approximately $9 million in the three months ended March 31, 2018 . Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to approximately $5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This $2 million increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to higher repurchases of restricted stock to satisfy employee tax withholding obligations upon vesting of restricted stock awards of $3 million offset by an increase in proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options of $1 million , during the three months ended March 31, 2019 . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions. Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. We consider policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies: Long-lived assets, intangible assets and goodwill Revenue recognition Income taxes Business combinations For an in depth discussion of each of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies and further information regarding estimates and assumptions involved in their application, see the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 and Note 2 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 35 Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information on recent accounting pronouncements , including the expected dates of adoption. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our press releases, conference calls, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2019 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions about our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margin percentage, net income, net income per share, fully diluted net income per share, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, taxable income (loss), cash flow from operating activities, available cash, operating costs, amortization expense, intangible asset recovery, capital and other expenditures, legal proceedings and claims, legal costs, effective tax rate, equity compensation charges, future taxable income, the anticipated benefits of completed or proposed acquisitions, the anticipated benefits of cross-selling efforts, product development and release, planned service enhancements, sales and marketing campaigns, product integrations, elimination and de-emphasizing of services, contract renewal rates, expectations regarding our compliance with financial and restrictive covenants in the 2017 Credit Agreement, financing plans, geographic expansion, capital structure, contractual obligations, our database, database growth, services and facilities, employee relations, future economic performance, our ability to liquidate or realize our long-term investments, managements plans, goals and objectives for future operations, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,