Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2 and see Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytics and online marketplaces to the commercial real estate industry in the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.) based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S. based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors and believe that we generate more revenues than any of our commercial real estate information competitors. We created and compiled our standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate, including apartments, and the related business communities can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based services rather than charging fees based on actual system usage or number of paid clicks. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use and hospitality. Depending on the type of service, contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, geography, the number and types of services to which a client subscribes, the number of properties a client advertises and the prominence and placement of a client's advertised properties in the search results, as applicable. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees in advance on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us in advance on a quarterly or annual basis. Revenues by services and a description of what is included in those line items can be found in Note 10 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our principal information, analytics and online marketplace services are described in the following paragraphs by type of service: Information and Analytics CoStar Suite . Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Suite services. CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStar Go. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, information about properties for sale, tenant information, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We provide market research, consulting and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our CoStar Portfolio Strategy and CoStar Market Analytics service offerings. The 2017 revenue growth rates for our CoStar Suite services are expected to be consistent with historical rates. 24 Information services . We provide portfolio and debt analysis, management and reporting capabilities through our CoStar Investment Analysis and CoStar Risk Analytics service offerings; and, real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our CoStar Real Estate Manager service offerings. We also provide information services internationally, through our Grecam, Belbex and Thomas Daily businesses in France, Spain and Germany, respectively. The revenue growth rate for our information services is expected to decline in 2017 resulting from the elimination or phase out of the LoopNet information services as we begin to seek to convert LoopNet information customers to higher value, more profitable annual subscription CoStar Suite information services. Online Marketplaces Multifamily . Apartments.com TM is part of our network of apartment marketing sites, which also includes ApartmentFinder.com TM , ApartmentHomeLiving.com TM , WestsideRentals.com , and Apartamentos.com TM , our recently launched apartment-listing site offered exclusively in Spanish. Our apartment marketing network of subscription-based services offers renters a searchable database of apartment listings and provides professional property management companies and landlords with an advertising destination. Multifamily revenue increased in 2016 and is expected to continue to increase in 2017, although at lower growth rates than in 2016 given the timing of the Apartment Finder acquisition. Commercial property and land . Our LoopNet subscription-based online marketplace services enable commercial property owners, landlords and real estate agents working on their behalf to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants also use LoopNet's online marketplace services to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. Our BizBuySell services, which include BizQuest , provide an online marketplace for businesses for sale. Our LandsofAmerica services, which include LandAndFarm, provide an online marketplace for rural lands for sale that is also accessible via our Land.com domain. The 2017 revenue growth rates for our commercial property and land services are expected to be consistent with historical rates. As of March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 , our annualized net bookings of subscription-based services on all contracts were approximately $35 million and $30 million , respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from all new subscription-based contracts or upsales on all existing subscription-based contracts, less write downs and cancellations, for the period reported. We recognize subscription revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. For each of the twelve months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 , our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services on annual contracts was approximately 90% , and therefore our cancellation rate for those services was approximately 10% for the same time periods. We expect our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services on annual contracts to moderate slightly in future periods due to the increased scale of our Multifamily services, which currently have a lower renewal rate as compared to our CoStar Suite services. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if, among other reasons, negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Development and Expansion We expect to continue our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate and cross-sell services, and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. We are committed to supporting and improving our information, news, analytic and online marketplace solutions. We have been, and plan to continue, integrating, further developing and cross-selling our services including Apartments.com, ApartmentFinder.com, Westside Rentals and CoStar Market Analytics. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for our listing sites, we utilize a variety of marketing campaigns, including television and radio advertising, online/digital advertising, social media and out-of-home ads, and Search Engine Marketing. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing in 2017. As we continue to assess the success and effectiveness of our marketing campaign, we will continue to work to determine the optimal level of marketing investment for our services for future periods. 25 Some key priorities for 2017 include: We are continuing to work on further integrating the backend systems of the LoopNet and CoStar databases, so that the two services will share a unified database of information in order to create operating efficiencies and improve the data available to our customers. We also hope to increase the quantity and quality of the listing information available by enabling select brokers and other industry participants to load information directly into the integrated system, simultaneously reducing the time and costs associated with researching and maintaining our comprehensive database of commercial real estate information. We continue to assess the timing and potential impact of transitioning the LoopNet marketplace to a pure marketing site for commercial real estate where, eventually, all listings would be paid and users could search the site for free. In connection with this transition, we will seek to convert LoopNet information customers to higher value, more profitable annual subscription CoStar Suite information services. We are investing in our research operations to support continued growth of our information and analytics offerings. We recently established our research operations headquarters in Richmond, Virginia, which is expected to be a technology innovation hub, powering the software development necessary to support the content within our information, analytics and marketing services. In connection with the opening of the Richmond research headquarters, we have expanded, and will continue to expand, our research team to continue to meet the growing content needs of our clients. In addition, we expect to continue to invest in our International research operations in Madrid, Spain and the U.K. We recently launched Apartamentos.com, an apartment-listing site offered exclusively in Spanish built and tailored to meet the needs of Spanish language households in the U.S. As a result, we expect an increase in traffic for our network of apartment marketing sites, as well as a slight increase in costs to support the new Apartamentos.com site. On January 31, 2017, we added WestsideRentals.com to our network of apartment marketing sites through our acquisitions of Koa Lei, Inc. (doing business as Westside Rentals and now known as Westside Rentals, LLC) and Westside Credit Services, LLC. WestsideRentals.com is a rental website specializing in Southern California real estate rentals. As we transition from WestsideRentals.com's current renter-paid subscription revenue model to an advertising model, we expect to incur losses associated with this business integration. We also intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business, in addition to the investments discussed above, in order to develop and distribute new services within our current platform or expand the reach of our current service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services or corporate expansion, development or restructuring efforts could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to generate reduced revenues or losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Any development efforts must comply with our credit facility, which contains restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow and may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. Property Developments As we have done in the past, we expect to continue to identify new facilities and consolidate existing facilities to better accommodate the changing demands of our business operations and employees. As a result, we may incur additional lease restructuring charges for the abandonment of certain lease space and the impairment of leasehold improvements. 26 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include net income before interest and other income (expense), income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share (also referred to as non-GAAP EPS). EBITDA is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 29 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytics and online marketplace services, which has included acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs and restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. 27 Set forth below are descriptions of financial items that have been excluded from net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income : Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the diminishing value of any acquired trade names and other intangible assets and the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest and other income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest and other income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of interest and other expense we incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest and other expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of additional financial items that have been excluded from EBITDA to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to acquisitions. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in a contract or a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters or impairments on acquired intangible assets. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. 28 The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income. We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2016 and 2017 , we assumed a 38% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our net income reconciled to our EBITDA and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Net income $ 22,130 $ 16,721 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues 6,119 5,696 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses 4,774 6,223 Depreciation and other amortization 6,405 5,602 Interest and other income (429 ) (84 ) Interest and other expense 2,686 2,509 Income tax expense 13,275 11,155 EBITDA $ 54,960 $ 47,822 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 64,557 $ 48,356 Investing activities (19,819 ) 416 Financing activities (39,547 ) (8,655 ) 29 Comparison of Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 The following table provides a comparison of our selected consolidated results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 (in thousands of dollars): Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Increase (Decrease) ($) Increase (Decrease) (%) Revenues: CoStar Suite $ 109,979 $ 97,634 $ 12,345 13 % Information services 18,336 19,425 (1,089 ) (6 ) Multifamily 63,991 52,238 11,753 22 Commercial property and land 34,247 30,442 3,805 12 Total revenues 226,553 199,739 26,814 13 Cost of revenues 51,346 42,900 8,446 20 Gross margin 175,207 156,839 18,368 12 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing 76,402 75,204 1,198 2 Software development 22,374 17,635 4,739 27 General and administrative 33,995 27,476 6,519 24 Customer base amortization 4,774 6,223 (1,449 ) (23 ) Total operating expenses 137,545 126,538 11,007 9 Income from operations 37,662 30,301 7,361 24 Interest and other income 429 84 345 NM Interest and other expense (2,686 ) (2,509 ) 177 7 Income before income taxes 35,405 27,876 7,529 27 Income tax expense 13,275 11,155 2,120 19 Net income $ 22,130 $ 16,721 $ 5,409 32 % __________________________ NM - Not meaningful Revenues. Revenues increased to $227 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $200 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The $27 million increase was primarily attributable to continued organic growth in CoStar Suite and Multifamily revenues. Revenues by services can be found in Note 10 in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The 2017 revenue growth rates for our CoStar Suite and commercial property and land services are expected to be consistent with historical rates. The revenue growth rate for our information services is expected to decline in 2017 resulting from the elimination or phase out of the LoopNet information services as we begin to seek to convert LoopNet information customers to higher value, more profitable annual subscription information services. Multifamily revenue is expected to continue to increase in 2017 consistent with the growth rate during the first quarter of 2017, although at a lower growth rate than in 2016 given the timing of the Apartment Finder acquisition. Gross Margin . Gro ss margin increased to $175 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $157 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The gross margin percentage decreased to 77% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from 79% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in the gross margin amount was principally due to an increase in revenues offset by an increase in cost of revenues of $8 million . The increase in cost of revenues was primarily due to a $4 million increase in personnel costs, a $1 million increase in related technology costs and a $760,000 increase in occupancy costs, due in part to costs associated with our new research operations headquarters in Richmond, Virginia, and the expansion of our research team. Additionally, we incurred approximately $500,000 associated with translation services for our Apartamentos.com website, while similar amounts were not incurred during the first quarter of 2016. The gross margin percentage is expected to decrease slightly in 2017 as compared to 2016 as a result of our continued investment in research operations. 30 Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses remained relatively consistent at $76 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $75 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 34% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 38% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $22 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $18 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 10% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 9% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expenses was primarily due to an increase in personnel costs to support the expansion of our research capabilities in Richmond, Virginia, as well as ongoing product maintenance. General and Admin istrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased to $34 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $27 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 15% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 14% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to approximately $3 million in legal costs primarily related to litigation and acquisitions as well as approximately $2 million in personnel-related costs. We expect to continue to incur legal costs related to a legal matter which began in 2016 that is expected to continue throughout 2017. Customer Base Amortization Expense . Customer base amortization expense decreased to $5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 2% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to 3% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was primarily due to the accelerated amortization of acquired customer bases for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Interest and Other Income . Interest and other income increased to approximately $429,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to approximately $84,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to our higher average cash, cash equivalent and investment balances during the three months ended March 31, 2017 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 . Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense remained relatively consistent at approximately $3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and March 31, 2016 . Income Tax Expense . Income tax expense increased to a $13 million income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $11 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This change was primarily due to higher income before income taxes for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as a result of our increased revenues, partially offset by a decrease in the effective tax rate from 40% to 37% . The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued authoritative guidance to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, which requires the recognition of excess tax benefits in income tax expense that were previously recorded as an adjustment to additional paid-in-capital. The income tax rate may continue to fluctuate during 2017 due to the excess tax benefits as well as potential tax credits that may be claimed for tax years that remain open. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 and Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which includes the U.K., Spain, Germany and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenues and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $219 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $193 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This increase in North America revenue was primarily a result of continued organic growth in CoStar Suite and Multifamily revenues. International revenues increased to $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to $6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily due to revenue associated with the May 3, 2016 acquisition of Thomas Daily GmbH (Thomas Daily), as well as an increase in CoStar Suite revenues. These increases were partially offset by the negative impact of foreign currency fluctuations. 31 Segment EBITDA . North America EBITDA increased to $54 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $47 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The increase in North America EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenues. International EBITDA decreased to $527,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , from $958,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . The decrease in International EBITDA was primarily due to the continued investment in our International research operations in Madrid, Spain and the U.K. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash and cash equivalents, debt from our term loan and revolving credit facility and cash from operations. Total cash and cash equivalents increased to $572 million as of March 31, 2017 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $567 million as of December 31, 2016 . The increase in cash and cash equivalents for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was primarily due to net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $65 million , partially offset by payments of long-term debt of $35 million , cash paid for the acquisition of Westside Rentals of $14 million , cash paid for purchases of property and equipment of $6 million and repurchase of restricted stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations of approximately $6 million . Changes in cash and cash equivalents are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was approximately $65 million compared to approximately $48 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This $17 million increase was due to a net increase of $10 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities, as well as an increase of $7 million in net income plus non-cash items. The $10 million net increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to differences in timing of collection of receipts and payments of disbursements. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was approximately $20 million compared to net cash provided by investment activities of approximately $416,000 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This $20 million increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to the $14 million of cash used for the acquisition of Westside Rentals for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , as well as $5 million of proceeds from the settlement of investments during the three months ended March 31, 2016 that did not occur during the three months ended March 31, 2017 . During the three months ended March 31, 2017 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $6 million . We expect capital expenditures to increase in 2017 as compared to 2016 as we incur capital expenditures to build out leased office space, including the Richmond research headquarters, as well as to invest in technology. Net cash used in financing activities was approximately $40 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017 , compared to approximately $9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 . This $31 million increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in the payments of long-term debt resulting from a $30 million prepayment made on March 1, 2017 of the principal payments for our term loan facility due over the next three quarters. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we expect to continue to make acquisitions. On April 10, 2017, we signed a definitive agreement to purchase certain assets and assume certain liabilities from Datasphere Technologies, Inc., in each case, related to the LandWatch.com business (collectively referred to as LandWatch.com). We are working with Datasphere Technologies to close the transaction in May 2017. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. The term loan facility is available to us under a credit agreement dated April 1, 2014 (the "2014 Credit Agreement"), and provides for a $400 million term loan facility and a $225 million revolving credit facility, each with a term of five years. The revolving credit facility had $225 million available as of March 31, 2017 . The undrawn proceeds of the revolving credit facility are available for our working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2017 , maturities of our borrowings under the 2014 Credit Agreement for each of the next two years ended March 31, 2018 to 2019, are expected to be $10 million and $300 million , respectively. On March 1, 2017, we prepaid the principal payments for our term loan facility due over the next three quarters, for an aggregate prepayment amount of $30 million. We were in compliance with the covenants in the 2014 Credit Agreement as of March 31, 2017 . Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. 32 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to recover the carrying value of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. To determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, growth rate and future financial performance. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about the growth rate and future financial performance of a reporting unit are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows. Our assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the International reporting unit reflect our expectation as of October 1, 2016 , that revenues will continue to increase as a result of further penetration of our international subscription-based services, including into Madrid, Spain, and Freiburg, Germany, and the successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets due to the release of our upgraded international platform and expansion of coverage of our international service offerings. These assumptions are subject to change from period to period and could be adversely impacted by the uncertainty surrounding global market conditions, commercial real estate conditions, and the competitive environment in which we operate. Changes in these or other factors could negatively affect our reporting units' fair value and potentially result in impairment charges. Such impairment charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2016 , the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2016 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. 33 Revenue Recognition We recognize revenues when (1) there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement, (2) the fee is fixed and determinable, (3) services have been rendered and payment has been contractually earned and (4) collectability is reasonably assured. Revenues from subscription-based services are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the agreement. Deferred revenue results from advance cash receipts from customers or amounts billed in advance to customers from the sale of subscription licenses and is recognized over the term of the license agreement. We derive revenues by providing access to our proprietary database of commercial real estate information. We generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based services. Our subscription-based services consist primarily of information, analytics and online marketplace services offered over the internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Subscription contract rates are based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the clients business focus, geography, the number and types of services to which a client subscribes, the number of properties a client advertises and the prominence and placement of a client's advertised properties in the search results, as applicable. A majority of the subscription-based license agreements have a term of one year and renew automatically. We analyze contracts with multiple elements under the accounting guidance for multiple-element arrangements. Our multiple-element arrangements include information, analytics and/or online marketplace services that are generally provided to the customer over the same term. When identifying multiple-element arrangements, we consider multiple purchases made by the same customer within a short time frame and assess whether the purchases were negotiated together as one overall arrangement. If a multiple-element arrangement is identified, then the arrangement consideration is allocated among the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices, which is estimated considering factors such as historical pricing, pricing strategy, market conditions and other factors. We account for each deliverable in the transaction separately. If the deliverables cannot be separated into multiple units of accounting, then the arrangement consideration is combined and recognition of revenues is determined for the combined unit of accounting. Multiple-element transactions require judgment to determine the selling price or fair value of the different elements. The judgments impact the amount of revenues recognized over the term of the contract, as well as the period in which they are recognized. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method, and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. We estimate the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. For equity instruments that vest based on a market condition, we estimate the fair value of each equity instrument granted on the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation model, which also requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the equity instruments. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of our stock price. For equity instruments that vest based on performance, we assess the probability of the achievement of the performance conditions at the end of each reporting period, or more frequently based upon the occurrence of events that may change the probability of whether the performance conditions would be met. If our initial estimates of the achievement of the performance conditions change, the related stock-based compensation expense and timing of recognition may fluctuate from period to period based on those estimates. If the performance conditions are not met, no stock-based compensation expense will be recognized, and any previously recognized stock-based compensation expense will be reversed. 34 We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Business Combinations We allocate the purchase consideration to the tangible assets acquired, liabilities assumed and intangible assets acquired based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from acquired customer bases, acquired database technology, and acquired trade names from a market participant's perspective, useful lives and discount rates. During the measurement period, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Any adjustments to provisional amounts that are identified during the measurement period are recorded in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are determined. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to earnings. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently actively trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of March 31, 2017 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of contractual cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents our estimate of the yield expected by a market participant from the ARS investments. The weighted average discount rate used in the discounted cash flow model as of March 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016 was approximately 5% . Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of March 31, 2017 , we determined there was a net decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $848,000 . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of March 31, 2017 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. 35 Recent Accounting Pronouncements In March 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities, and classification of share-based payment transactions on the statement of cash flows. Adoption of this standard will impact our 2017 net income because excess tax benefits, which were previously reflected in additional paid in capital, are now reflected in income tax expense. The significance of the impact will depend on the intrinsic value at the time of vesting or exercise of equity instruments. See Note 2 to the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information on recent accounting pronouncements , including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects, if any, on our condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our press releases and conference calls that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2017 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions about our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margin percentage, net income, net income per share, fully diluted net income per share, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, taxable income, cash flow from operating activities, available cash, operating costs, amortization expense, intangible asset recovery, capital and other expenditures, legal costs, effective tax rate, equity compensation charges, future taxable income, pending acquisitions, the anticipated benefits of completed or proposed acquisitions, the anticipated benefits of cross-selling efforts, product development and release, sales and marketing campaigns, product integrations, elimination and de-emphasizing of services, contract renewal rate, the timing of future payments of principal under our $400 million term loan facility available to us under the 2014 Credit Agreement, expectations regarding our compliance with financial and restrictive covenants in the 2014 Credit Agreement, financing plans, geographic expansion, capital structure, contractual obligations, legal proceedings and claims, our database, database growth, services and facilities, employee relations, future economic performance, our ability to liquidate or realize our long-term investments, managements plans, goals and objectives for future operations, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,