Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. There are many risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Potential factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in any forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2 and Risk Factors in Item 1A of Part I of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, as well as those described from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. All forward-looking statements in this filing are based on information available to us on the date of this filing, and we assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, our subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar Group) is the number one provider of information, analytics and online marketplaces to the commercial real estate industry in the United States (U.S.) and United Kingdom (U.K.) based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate and apartment listings in the U.S., based on the numbers of unique visitors and site visits per month; and provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors. We have created and compiled a standardized platform of information, analytics and online marketplace services where industry professionals and consumers of commercial real estate, including apartments, and the related business communities, can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently accessing and exchanging accurate and standardized real estate-related information. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use and hospitality. With our recent acquisitions of Homesnap, Inc. (Homesnap) and Homes Group, LLC ("Homes.com") we also offer online platforms for marketing and workflow management for residential real estate agents and brokers and residential property listings for homebuyers. We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which primarily includes Europe, Asia-Pacific and Latin America. Our most recent strategic acquisitions include Ten-X Holding Company, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("Ten-X"), which operate an online auction platform for commercial real estate; Emporis GmbH, a Germany-based provider of international commercial real estate data and images, Homesnap and Homes.com. See Notes 5 and 8 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of the Ten-X, Homesnap and Homes.com acquisitions. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of at least one year. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based services rather than charging fees based on actual system usage or number of paid clicks. Depending on the type of service, contract rates are generally based on one or more of the following factors: the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, the client's geographic location, the number and types of services to which a client subscribes, the number of properties a client advertises, and the prominence and placement of a client's advertised properties in the search results. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. Auction transaction fees from our Ten-X online auction platform are generally charged upon the successful closure of an auction as a percentage of the winning buyer's offer price for the commercial real estate property sold. Our primary brands include CoStar, LoopNet, Apartments.com TM , STR, Ten-X, BizBuySell, LandsofAmerica TM , HomeSnap, and Homes.com, which are accessible via the Internet and through our mobile applications. Our principal service offerings are discussed in more detail below. Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic 32 While the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve, it did not materially affect our consolidated financial statements during 2020 or our condensed consolidated financial statements for March 31, 2021 and June 30, 2021. We are closely and continually monitoring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, employees, customers, and communities. We continue to monitor the guidelines and mandates provided by governmental and health authorities and plan to continue adapting our business operations when and as deemed appropriate to comply with these guidelines and mandates and to respond to changing circumstances. We are returning to the office for those job activities that may be done safely and in compliance with social distancing guidelines to protect our employees, our customers and our communities. The majority of our workforce has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19 and returned to the office and we have resumed in-person marketing events and some business travel. The global workforce has been operating in an extraordinary and mostly digital and remote manner as the world adapted during the COVID-19 pandemic. During this time, many working adults have moved to different locations and adjusted to a different way of living. As we transition our employees back to the office, we have experienced and expect to continue to experience attrition among our workforce resulting in increased costs. Continued attrition in the future may also result in work disruptions. Overall, the increased direct spend related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including office reconfiguration and employee hiring and retention programs, has not been material to date and has had minimal impact on our financial position and operating results. It is currently unclear how the commercial real estate industry will ultimately be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic as businesses formulate plans for employees to return to the office, implement hybrid work arrangements allowing work from the office or home, or switch to all work from home. If the demand for office space decreases significantly, there could be a downturn in the commercial real estate market which may materially adversely affect many of our clients. A depressed commercial real estate market would have a negative impact on our core customer base, which could impact our customers ability to subscribe and pay for our services and reduce demand for our services. Reduced demand and increased cancellations could cause our revenues or our revenue growth rate to decline and reduce our profitability. During 2021, excluding our multifamily service offering, our company-wide net new bookings and renewal rates for subscription-based services have returned to pre-pandemic levels. Our multifamily service offering renewal rates exceed pre-pandemic levels; however, net new bookings declined in the second quarter of 2021 as a result of customers selecting lower cost ad packages. In addition, we saw improvements in collection trends along with improvements in the economy which led us to reduce our allowance for credit losses previously taken. Due to the uncertainty associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, we will continue to monitor these trends and the impact on our results of operations. Any future financial results or expected changes in financial performance discussed in this report are based on our current observations and experience and involve estimates and assumptions. As the future extent and duration of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic remain unclear, the Companys estimates and assumptions may evolve as conditions change. See Note 4 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the "Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2020" below for further discussion. We strengthened our liquidity position through an equity offering of common stock in May 2020 and an offering of Senior Notes and amendment and restatement of our credit facility in early July 2020. See Note 10 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the Development, Investments and Expansion below for further discussion of our recent equity and Senior Notes offerings and the 2020 Credit Agreement. The effects of the pandemic have not affected our ability to date to access funding on reasonably similar terms as were available to us prior to March 2020. We discuss the current and potential impact of select provisions of the CARES Act (defined below) on our company in our liquidity discussion. Service Offerings Our principal information, analytics and online marketplace services are described in the following paragraphs by type of service: Information and Analytics CoStar is our subscription-based integrated platform for commercial real estate intelligence, which includes information about office, industrial, retail, multifamily and student housing properties, properties for sale, comparable sales, tenants, space available for lease, industry professionals and their business relationships, industry news, and market and lease analytical capabilities. CoStar's second quarter 2021 revenue growth rates increased when compared to the first quarter of 2021 and were consistent with the second quarter of 2020. We expect revenue growth rates to increase throughout the second half of 2021. Information services . We provide real estate and lease management technology solutions, including lease administration, lease accounting and abstraction services, through our Real Estate Manager service offerings, as well as portfolio and debt analysis, management and reporting capabilities through our CoStar Investment Analysis and CoStar Risk Analytics service 33 offerings. STR, Inc. and STR Global, Ltd. (together with STR, Inc., "STR") provides benchmarking and analytics for the hospitality industry. STR sells the majority of its services on a subscription basis, but also receives one-time or ad hoc transaction fee revenues. We provide information services internationally, through our Grecam, Belbex and Thomas Daily businesses in France, Spain and Germany, respectively. The hospitality industry continues to recover from the impacts of COVID-19. During the second quarter of 2021, STR revenue was consistent with the first quarter of 2021 and increased compared to the second quarter of 2020. Overall, we expect the information services revenue growth rate for the second half of 2021 to be consistent with that of the first half of 2021. Online Marketplaces Multifamily . Apartments.com TM is part of our network of apartment marketing sites, which primarily includes ApartmentFinder, ForRent.com, ApartmentHomeLiving.com TM , Apartamentos.com TM , Westside Rentals, and Off Campus Partners, LLC. Our network of subscription-based advertising services provides property management companies and landlords with a comprehensive advertising destination for their available rental units and offers renters a platform for searching for available rentals. During the second quarter of 2021, multifamily revenue increased when compared to the first quarter of 2021 and second quarter of 2020 as tenants, property owners and landlords continued to transact in our digital environment. Apartments.com has continued to successfully increase traffic to the network resulting in increased leads to customers. As leads per ad have increased, Apartments.coms lower priced ad packages are generating more leads than top-level packages were generating approximately one year ago. This has resulted in customers selecting lower priced ads and a decline in the revenue growth rate in the second quarter of 2021 compared to the first quarter of 2021. We expect revenue growth rates to decline in the second half of 2021 due to Apartments.com customers selecting lower priced ad packages. Commercial property and land . Our LoopNet.com network of commercial real estate websites offer subscription-based online marketplace services that enable commercial property owners, landlords and real estate agents working on their behalf to advertise properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants use the LoopNet.com network of online marketplace services to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. On June 24, 2020, we acquired Ten-X, an online auction platform for commercial real estate. On December 22, 2020, we acquired Homesnap, an online and mobile software platform that provides user-friendly applications to optimize residential real estate agent workflow and reinforce the agent-client relationship. On May 24, 2021, we acquired Homes.com, a residential advertising and marketing services company primarily operating through its portal, Homes.com. Our BizBuySell network, which includes BizQuest and FindaFranchise, and our Land.com network of sites, which includes LandsofAmerica, LandAndFarm and LandWatch, are also included in our commercial property and land service revenue. The BizBuySell network provides online marketplaces for businesses for-sale and our Land.com network of sites provide online marketplaces for rural lands for-sale. Revenues in commercial property and land increased during the second quarter of 2021 when compared to the first quarter of 2021 and second quarter of 2020 primarily due to revenue from our recent Ten-X, Homesnap and Homes.com acquisitions and, to a lesser extent, revenue growth from LoopNet.com. Overall, we expect commercial property and land revenue to increase in 2021 primarily due to the continued impact of the Ten-X and Homesnap acquisitions and the Homes.com acquisition completed in May 2021 and organic growth in LoopNet revenue. For the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, our annualized net new bookings of subscription-based services on all contracts were approximately $51 million and $35 million, respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from all new subscription-based contracts or upsales on all existing subscription-based contracts, less write-downs and cancellations, for the period reported. We recognize subscription revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Net new bookings is considered a key indicator of future subscription revenue growth and is also used as a metric of salesforce productivity by management and investors. For the trailing twelve months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020, our contract renewal rates for existing CoStar subscription-based services on annual contracts were approximately 92% and 89%, respectively, and therefore our cancellation rates for those services for the same periods were approximately 8% and 11% respectively. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance absent extraordinary circumstances. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline as a result of negative economic conditions, consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Development, Investments and Expansion We plan to continue to invest in our business and our services, evaluate strategic growth opportunities, and pursue our key priorities as described below, while we closely monitor the economic developments from the COVID-19 pandemic and manage our response to such developments. We are committed to supporting, improving and enhancing our information, analytics and 34 online marketplace solutions, including expanding and improving our offerings for our client base and site users, including property owners, property managers, buyers, commercial tenants, brokers, agents and residential renters. We expect to continue our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate and cross-sell services, integrate recently completed acquisitions and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. We reevaluate our priorities on a regular basis and may reevaluate our priorities as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to evolve. Our key priorities for the remainder of 2021 currently include: Integrating and developing service offerings of recently completed acquisitions, including STR, Ten-X, Homesnap and Homes.com, with our business operations. We are in the process consolidating STR data and services with CoStar and creating an integrated platform. We expect that the combination of STR's and CoStar's offerings will allow us to create valuable new and improved tools for industry participants. We plan to drive international expansion, in part, through STR's global operations and to apply STR's benchmarking expertise to other commercial real estate segments we serve. We are working on integrating the Ten-X platform with both LoopNet and CoStar, to expand the audience for Ten-X auctions to include our online commercial real estate users. To increase exposure, we have upgraded LoopNet listings for properties to be auctioned on Ten-X and are allocating banner space on both our CoStar and LoopNet sites to Ten-X to cross-market our services. The acquisitions of Homes.com and Homesnap enable us to enter the residential real estate market and expand the markets in which we compete. Our Homes.com and Homesnap teams are creating new and improved tools to help agents promote their residential listings, connect with buyers and sellers and streamline their daily workflow. We expect to make investments in the second half of 2021 in residential technology and content generation resources, as well as marketing. We are also evaluating additional investments in residential marketplace services and assessing and formulating our residential business plan and go-forward strategies. Continuing to invest in the LoopNet marketplace and the Ten-X auction platform. We are enhancing the content on LoopNet.com (including high-quality imagery), seeking targeted advertisements, providing premium listing services (such as LoopNet Diamond, Platinum, and Gold Ads) that increase a property listings exposure, and adding more content for premium listings to better meet the needs of a broader cross section of the commercial real estate industry. As our workforce continues to return to the office, we are resuming our plans to recruit and develop a dedicated LoopNet sales team to help support and grow the business. To support the LoopNet marketplace, we implemented training and incentive programs for our existing sales team to increase sales of LoopNet Ads, with a focus on brokers and property owners. We continue to execute on our plan to expand the Ten-X sales force during 2021 and focus on increasing the number of qualified bidders and the number of owners bringing properties to the site. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for the LoopNet.com network and Ten-X, we have increased our investment in marketing in 2021, as compared to 2020, and are utilizing a multi-media marketing campaign, reinforced with search engine optimization efforts. We expect to continue to work to determine the optimal level of marketing investment for each of these services for future periods. Continuing to invest in CoStar. Current investments include capabilities that allow us to broaden the reach of CoStar internationally by offering a global CoStar platform for all CoStar users. As we begin to offer a global platform, we plan to expand our international presence. We are also continuing to integrate commercial mortgage-backed securities data and STR hospitality information and expect to further enhance these capabilities during the year by including global coverage of hospitality information, and we are developing a solution to support lenders with their risk management, underwriting, surveillance and compliance efforts. Continuing to develop, improve and market our Apartments.com service offerings to create the best and most comprehensive consumer rental search experience as well as continuing to advance the digital rental experience that allows renters to apply for leases and make rent payments, and for landlords to run tenant credit and background checks, all online through a single platform. We seek user feedback as we work to improve our services and continue to aggressively market our multifamily listing services in an effort to provide more value to consumers and, in turn, to attract advertisers. Our Apartments.com marketing investment is focused on enhanced brand awareness and search engine marketing. As we continue to assess the success and effectiveness of our marketing campaign, we will continue to work to determine the optimal level and focus of our marketing investment for our services for future periods and may adjust our marketing spend and focus as we deem appropriate. Apartments.com has been successful in generating increased traffic to the network and as a result is delivering increased leads per ad to customers. We plan to assess and adjust pricing to reflect the increased lead generation we are delivering. To support our continued expansion and development, in 2020 we completed a public equity offering, a senior notes offering and the refinancing of our revolving credit facility. In May 2020, we completed a public equity offering of 26,335,870 shares of common stock for $65.50 per share (as adjusted to reflect the ten-for-one stock split, as described in Note 2 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 35 10-Q ). Net proceeds from the public equity offering were approximately $1.7 billion, after deducting approximately $35 million of underwriting fees, commissions and other stock issuance costs. We continue to expect to use the net proceeds from the public equity offering to fund all or a portion of the costs of any strategic acquisitions we pursue in the future, to finance the growth of our business and/or for working capital and other general corporate purposes. General corporate purposes may include additions to working capital, capital expenditures, repayment of debt, investments in our subsidiaries, and the repurchase, redemption or retirement of securities, including our common stock. On July 1, 2020, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.800% Senior Notes due July 15, 2030 (the Senior Notes). Interest on the Senior Notes is payable semi-annually in arrears beginning on January 15, 2021. We may redeem the Senior Notes in whole or in part (a) at any time prior to April 15, 2030, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus the Applicable Premium (as calculated in accordance with the indenture governing the Senior Notes) as of, and any accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the principal amount of Senior Notes being redeemed to, but excluding, the redemption date, and (b) on or after April 15, 2030, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus any accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the principal amount of Senior Notes being redeemed to, but excluding, the redemption date. We used a portion of the net proceeds from the issuance of the Senior Notes to repay outstanding borrowings under the 2017 Credit Agreement, and we intend to use the remaining proceeds to fund all or a portion of the costs of any strategic acquisitions we pursue in the future, to finance the growth of our business and/or for working capital and other general corporate purposes. On July 1, 2020, we also entered into a second amended and restated credit agreement (the 2020 Credit Agreement), which amended and restated in its entirety our existing credit agreement (the "2017 Credit Agreement"). The 2020 Credit Agreement provides for a $750 million revolving credit facility with a term of five years and a letter of credit sublimit of $20 million from a syndicate of financial institutions as lenders and issuing banks. Funds drawn down on the revolving credit facility pursuant to the 2020 Credit Agreement may be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. The 2020 Credit Agreement, along with the proceeds from the May equity offering, the July Senior Notes offering and cash generated by our business are expected to support our continued growth and give us flexibility to act on strategic acquisition opportunities that may arise. See Note 10 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further discussion of our Senior Notes offerings and our 2020 Credit Agreement. We intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business, in addition to the investments discussed above, in order to develop and distribute new services and functionality within our current platform or expand the reach of, or otherwise improve, our current service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services or corporate expansion, development or restructuring efforts could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to experience reduced revenues or generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Any development efforts must comply with our credit facility, which contains restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow and may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. At our 2021 Annual Meeting of Stockholders on June 2, 2021, upon the recommendation of our Board of Directors, our stockholders approved the adoption of our Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, which provided for an increase in the total number of shares of common stock that the Company is authorized to issue from 60 million to 1.2 billion. The Fourth Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation became effective on June 7, 2021. On June 7, 2021, the Board of Directors approved a ten-for-one stock split of our outstanding shares of common stock to be effected in the form of a stock dividend. Each stockholder of record on June 17, 2021 received a dividend of nine additional shares of common stock for each then-held share, distributed after close of trading on June 25, 2021. Our Board of Directors approved the split of the common stock primarily in an effort to make stock ownership more accessible to employees and investors. The par value of our common stock remained $0.01 per share. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include net income before interest (expense) income and other (expense) income, loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary 36 course of business. Adjusted EBITDA margin represents adjusted EBITDA divided by revenues for the period. Non-GAAP net income is determined by adjusting our net income for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business and loss on debt extinguishment, as well as amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, and then subtracting an assumed provision for income taxes. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures. We believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure to EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA and non-GAAP net income is net income. We believe the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures to non-GAAP net income per diluted share and adjusted EBITDA margin are net income per diluted share and net income divided by revenue, respectively. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income and net income per diluted share. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and accompanying reconciliations, provide additional information to investors that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business without the impact of certain acquisition-related items. We have spent more than 30 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to these acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, and loss on debt extinguishment. Adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for amortization of acquired intangible assets, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs; settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year without the impact of these items. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest (expense) income and other (expense) income, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, loss on debt extinguishment and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of financial items that have been excluded from net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: 37 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the diminishing value of any acquired trade names and other intangible assets and the use of our acquired technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest (expense) income and other (expense) income we generate and incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows and outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest (expense) income and other (expense) income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of loss on our debt extinguishment may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents losses from the early extinguishment of debt. However, we do not consider the amount of the loss on debt extinguishment to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of additional financial items that have been excluded from EBITDA to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because such costs generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to acquisitions. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle, we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters or impairments on acquired intangible assets. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in a contract or a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are amortization of acquired intangible assets and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring and related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income. In addition to these exclusions from net income, we subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 38 2021 and 2020, we assumed a 25% tax rate, which approximated our historical long-term statutory corporate tax rate, excluding the impact of discrete items. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to investors to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our net income reconciled to our EBITDA and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 2020 2021 2020 Net income $ 61,148 $ 60,360 $ 135,360 $ 133,153 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in cost of revenues 6,948 6,054 14,356 12,059 Amortization of acquired intangible assets in operating expenses 18,345 14,935 36,764 26,419 Depreciation and other amortization 7,028 6,990 15,528 13,757 Interest expense 7,877 3,596 15,755 1,945 Other expense (income) (847) 474 (797) (367) Income tax expense 32,833 16,889 51,902 22,452 EBITDA $ 133,332 $ 109,298 $ 268,868 $ 209,418 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 132,436 $ 117,182 $ 220,289 $ 248,646 Investing activities $ (150,470) $ (189,719) $ (284,790) $ (187,025) Financing activities $ 2,405 $ 1,691,207 $ (16,138) $ 2,416,358 39 Comparison of Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 and Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 The following table provides a comparison of our selected consolidated results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands): Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 2020 Increase (Decrease) ($) Increase (Decrease) (%) Revenues: CoStar $ 176,979 $ 165,053 $ 11,926 7 % Information services 35,157 30,536 4,621 15 Multifamily 171,357 145,541 25,816 18 Commercial property and land 96,840 56,029 40,811 73 Total revenues 480,333 397,159 83,174 21 Cost of revenues 89,566 74,040 15,526 21 Gross profit 390,767 323,119 67,648 21 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing (excluding customer base amortization) 164,612 130,461 34,151 26 Software development 48,573 39,001 9,572 25 General and administrative 58,226 57,403 823 1 Customer base amortization 18,345 14,935 3,410 23 Total operating expenses 289,756 241,800 47,956 20 Income from operations 101,011 81,319 19,692 24 Interest expense (7,877) (3,596) 4,281 119 Other income (expense) 847 (474) 1,321 NM Income before income taxes 93,981 77,249 16,732 22 Income tax expense 32,833 16,889 15,944 94 Net income $ 61,148 $ 60,360 $ 788 1 __________________________ NM - Not meaningful Revenues. Revenues increased to $480 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $397 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The $83 million increase was attributable to increases in revenues for several of our services. Commercial property and land revenue increased $41 million, or 73%, driven primarily by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions which contributed revenues of $14 million, $13 million, and $4 million, respectively, as well as, growth in sales of our LoopNet online marketplace services as a result of stronger traffic, which drove sales of higher value advertisements as compared to the prior year. Multifamily revenues increased $26 million, or 18%, primarily due to higher sales volume and upgrades of existing customers to higher value advertising packages. CoStar revenues increased $12 million, or 7%, primarily due to higher sales volume driven by an increase in users. Information services revenue increased $5 million, or 15%, primarily due to increased revenue of $4 million from STR and Real Estate Manager service offerings. Gross Profit . Gross profit increased to $391 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $323 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, and the gross profit percentage remained consistent at 81% for the three months ended June 30, 2021, and June 30, 2020. The increase in gross profit was due to higher revenues partially impacted by an increase in cost of revenues of $16 million, or 21%, primarily due to an increase of $13 million in personnel and other operating costs from the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions and to a lesser extent, increased data and content fees of $1 million and bank and merchant fees of $1 million. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $165 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $130 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The $34 million increase was primarily attributable to a $21 million increase in marketing expenses, driven by a $11 million increase in marketing agency spending, primarily for 40 LoopNet and Ten-X, and a $5 million increase in search engine marketing spending, as well as, a $12 million increase in personnel costs driven by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $49 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $39 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, and remained consistent as a percentage of revenues at 10% for the three months ended June 30, 2021, and June 30, 2020. The $10 million increase was primarily due to a $9 million increase in personnel costs driven by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions, as well as, increased headcount to enhance our product offerings. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $58 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $57 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 12% for the three months ended June 30, 2021 from 14% for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The $1 million increase in the amount of general and administrative expense was primarily due to a $4 million increase in personnel costs, driven by higher stock-based compensation expense, and a $2 million increase in software and equipment costs. These increases were partially offset by a $5 million decrease in credit loss expense due to better than expected collections, resulting in updated assumptions regarding credit losses and a decrease in reserves previously increased due to uncertainty about the economic effects of COVID-19 pandemic, as well as a decrease in professional services costs. Customer Base Amortization Expense . Customer base amortization expense increased to $18 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021 from $15 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, and remained consistent as a percentage of revenues at 4% for the three months ended June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020. The increase in customer base amortization expense was primarily due to the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions. Interest Expense . Interest expense was a net expense of $8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, as compared to net expense of $4 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The increase for the three months ended June 30, 2021 was primarily due to interest expense of $7 million recognized during the three months ended June 30, 2021, on our Senior Notes issued on July 1, 2020, partially offset by prior year interest expense of $4 million incurred on $745 million draw on our revolving credit facility in the first quarter of 2020. Other Income (Expense) . Other income (expense), which is comprised primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses and other non-operating income and expenses, did not change materially for the three months ended June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020. Income Tax Expense . Income tax expense increased to $33 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $17 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to a tax restructuring gain, higher income before taxes, as well as, a decrease in excess tax benefits. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended June 30, 2021 and Three Months Ended June 30, 2020 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which primarily includes Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest (expense) income and other (expense) income, loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $464 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $384 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in North America revenues was attributable to increases in revenues for several of our services, including an increase in commercial property and land revenues of $40 million, driven by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions, and to a lesser extent, stronger traffic, which drove sales of higher value advertisements in our LoopNet service offering, as well as a $26 million increase in multifamily revenues primarily due to higher sales volume and upgrades of existing customers to higher value advertising packages. CoStar revenue increased $10 million, primarily due to higher sales volume driven by an increase in users. Information services increased by $3 million, primarily due to growth in sales of our STR and Real Estate Manager service offerings. International revenues increased to $17 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $13 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in 41 International revenues was due to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates, as well as growth in our STR and CoStar products. Segment EBITDA . North America EBITDA increased to $130 million for the three months ended June 30, 2021, from $112 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in North America EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by increases in personnel, marketing and general and administrative costs. International EBITDA for the three months ended June 30, 2021 was positive EBITDA of $3 million, as compared to negative EBITDA of $3 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, due to increased revenue and lower general and administrative costs, partially offset by increases in personnel and marketing costs. 42 Comparison of Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 The following table provides a comparison of our selected consolidated results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2021 and 2020 (in thousands): Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 2020 Increase (Decrease) ($) Increase (Decrease) (%) Revenues: CoStar $ 349,163 $ 330,009 $ 19,154 6 % Information services 69,853 62,918 6,935 11 Multifamily 337,504 283,001 54,503 19 Commercial property and land 181,510 113,078 68,432 61 Total revenues 938,030 789,006 149,024 19 Cost of revenues 178,314 152,949 25,365 17 Gross profit 759,716 636,057 123,659 19 Operating expenses: Selling and marketing (excluding customer base amortization) 303,299 255,568 47,731 19 Software development 95,357 80,611 14,746 18 General and administrative 122,076 116,276 5,800 5 Customer base amortization 36,764 26,419 10,345 39 Total operating expenses 557,496 478,874 78,622 16 Income from operations 202,220 157,183 45,037 29 Interest expense (15,755) (1,945) 13,810 NM Other income 797 367 430 NM Income before income taxes 187,262 155,605 31,657 20 Income tax expense 51,902 22,452 29,450 131 Net income $ 135,360 $ 133,153 $ 2,207 2 __________________________ NM - Not meaningful Revenues. Revenues increased to $938 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $789 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The $149 million increase was attributable to increases in revenues for several of our services. Commercial property and land revenue increased $68 million, or 61%, primarily driven by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions, which contributed revenues of $25 million, $23 million, and $4 million, respectively, as well as, growth in sales of our LoopNet online marketplace services as a result of stronger traffic, which drove sales of higher value advertisements as compared to the prior year. Multifamily revenues increased $55 million, or 19%, primarily due to higher sales volume and upgrades of existing customers to higher value advertising packages. CoStar revenues increased $19 million, or 6%, primarily due to higher sales volume driven by an increase in users as well as increases in the average revenue per user primarily due to changes in product and customer mix. Information services revenue increased $7 million, or 11%, primarily due to increased revenue of $3 million each from Real Estate Manager and STR service offerings. Gross Profit . Gross profit increased to $760 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $636 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, and the gross profit percentage remained consistent at 81% for the six months ended June 30, 2021 and the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in gross profit was due to higher revenues partially impacted by an increase in cost of revenues of $25 million, or 17%, primarily due to an increase of $23 million in personnel and other operating costs from the Ten-X, Homesnap and Homes.com acquisitions, and to a lesser extent, increased data and content fees of $2 million. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $303 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $256 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The $48 million increase was primarily attributable 43 to a $32 million increase in marketing expenses, driven by an $18 million increase in marketing agency spending, primarily for LoopNet and Ten-X, and a $7 million increase in search engine marketing spending, as well as a $19 million increase in personnel costs driven by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions, as well as increased commissions. These increases were partially offset by decreases of $3 million in conference and event spending. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $95 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $81 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, and remained consistent as a percentage of revenues at 10% for the six months ended June 30, 2021, and the six months ended June 30, 2020. The $15 million increase was primarily due to a $14 million increase in personnel costs driven by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions, as well as increased headcount to enhance our product offerings. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $122 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $116 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 13% for the six months ended June 30, 2021 from 15% for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The $6 million increase in the amount of general and administrative expense was primarily due to a $4 million increase in professional services, a $4 million increase in personnel costs, driven by higher stock-based compensation expense, a $4 million increase in software and equipment, and a $2 million increase in depreciation expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $10 million decrease in credit loss expense due to better than expected collections, resulting in updated assumptions regarding credit losses and a decrease in reserves previously increased due to uncertainty about the economic effects of COVID-19 pandemic. Customer Base Amortization Expense . Customer base amortization expense increased to $37 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021 from $26 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 4% for the six months ended June 30, 2021 from 3% for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in customer base amortization expense was primarily due to the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions. Interest Expense . Interest expense was a net expense of $16 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, as compared to net expense of $2 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was primarily due to interest expense of $14 million recognized during the six months ended June 30, 2021 on our Senior Notes issued on July 1, 2020, as well as, a decrease of $3 million in interest income caused by lower rates of return on our cash and cash equivalent balances compared to the prior year. These decreases were partially offset by prior year interest expense of $4 million incurred on $745 million draw on our revolving credit facility in the first quarter of 2020. Other Income. Other income, which is comprised primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses and other non-operating income and expenses, did not change materially for the six months ended June 30, 2021 and June 30, 2020. Income Tax Expense . Income tax expense increased to $52 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $22 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase was primarily due to a decrease in excess tax benefits, a tax restructuring gain, and higher income before income taxes. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Six Months Ended June 30, 2021 and Six Months Ended June 30, 2020 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which primarily includes Europe, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest (expense) income and other (expense) income, loss on debt extinguishment, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $906 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $762 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in North America revenues was attributable to increases in revenues for several of our services, including an increase in commercial property and land revenues of $68 million, driven by the Ten-X, Homesnap, and Homes.com acquisitions, and to a lesser extent, stronger traffic, which drove sales of higher value advertisements in our LoopNet service offering and a $55 million increase in multifamily revenues driven by higher sales volume and upgrades of existing customers to higher value advertising packages. CoStar revenue increased $16 million, primarily due to higher sales volume driven by an increase in users, as well as increases in the average revenue per user due to several factors, including changes in product and customer mix. Information services increased by $5 million, primarily due to 44 growth in sales of our Real Estate Manager and STR service offerings. International revenues increased to $32 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $27 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in International revenues was due to favorable changes in foreign exchange rates, as well as growth in our STR and CoStar products. Segment EBITDA . North America EBITDA increased to $266 million for the six months ended June 30, 2021, from $215 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in North America EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by increases in personnel, marketing and general and administrative costs. International EBITDA for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was positive EBITDA of $3 million, as compared to negative EBITDA of $5 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020, due to increased revenue and lower general and administrative costs, partially offset by increases in personnel and marketing costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of ongoing liquidity are cash from operations and proceeds from our debt and equity offerings. Total cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash decreased to approximately $3.7 billion as of June 30, 2021, compared to cash and cash equivalents of approximately $3.8 billion as of December 31, 2020. The decrease in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was primarily due to cash paid for acquisitions of $148 million, purchases of property and equipment and other intangibles of $137 million, which includes $123 million for the purchase of an office building and the underlying land located in Richmond, Virginia, as well as repurchases of restricted stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations of $28 million. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash generated from operations of $220 million. Net cash provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was approximately $220 million compared to approximately $249 million for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The $29 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in net working capital of $53 million, driven by payment of the $52 million termination fee pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement with RentPath. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in net income excluding certain non-cash expenses such as depreciation and amortization. Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was approximately $285 million compared to approximately $187 million of cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The $98 million increase in cash used in investing activities during the six months ended June 30, 2021 was primarily due to an increase in purchases of property, equipment and other assets which included $123 million for the purchase of an office building and the underlying land located in Richmond, Virginia. This increase was offset by a decrease in cash paid for acquisitions, as well as proceeds from the sale of our ARS investments of $10 million received during the six months ended June 30, 2020. Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2021 was approximately $16 million compared to approximately $2.4 billion provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2020. The increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to proceeds from our May 2020 equity offering, net of transaction costs, of $1.7 billion, as well as a $745 million draw on our revolving credit facility during the six months ended June 30, 2020. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions. On March 27, 2020, the U.S. Congress passed the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (the "CARES Act"). The CARES Act, among other things, includes provisions relating to the deferral of taxes, valuation allowances, and balance sheet classifications, as well as provisions relating to refundable payroll tax credits, deferral of employer social security payments, net operating loss carryback periods, alternative minimum tax credit refunds, modifications to the net interest deduction limitations and technical corrections to tax depreciation methods for qualified improvement property. As permitted under the CARES Act, we deferred payroll taxes due in 2020 to the end of 2021 and 2022. As of the filing date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q , we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient for us to maintain and fund our operations for at least the next twelve months. Our ability to maintain adequate capital for our operations in the future depends upon numerous rapidly evolving factors, many of which we cannot accurately predict or assess, including, among others, the length and severity of the economic downturn associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, related disruption of the international and national economy and credit markets; actions taken by governments, businesses and individuals in response to the pandemic such as office and other workplace closures, worker turn over, worker absenteeism, remote work policies, quarantines, mass-transit disruptions or other travel or health-related restrictions; how quickly economies, including the commercial real estate industry in particular, recover 45 after the pandemic subsidies; sales of our services; and collection of accounts receivables. We plan to continue to monitor and evaluate the financial impact of the COVID-19 pandemic as it evolves. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. We consider policies relating to the following matters to be critical accounting policies: Long-lived assets, intangible assets and goodwill Revenue recognition Income taxes Business combinations For an in-depth discussion of each of our significant accounting policies, including our critical accounting policies and further information regarding estimates and assumptions involved in their application, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 and Note 2 to the accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Recent Accounting Pronouncements None. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and make forward-looking statements in our press releases, investor conference calls, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, other Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2021 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions or expectations about our revenues, revenue growth rates, gross margin percentage, net income, net income per share, fully diluted net income per share, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA margin, non-generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) net income, non-GAAP net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, cash flow from operating activities, operating costs, capital and other expenditures, the current and future impacts of COVID-19 on our operations, our actions in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, key priorities for 2021, trends in customer behavior, legal proceedings and claims, legal costs, effective tax rate, the anticipated benefits of completed or proposed acquisitions, the anticipated timing for integration of completed acquisitions, the anticipated benefits of cross-selling efforts, product development and release, geographic and product expansion, planned service enhancements, expansion and development of our sales force, planned sales and marketing activities and investments, the impact or results of sales and marketing initiatives, product integrations, elimination and de-emphasizing of services, plans related to the Ten-X business, investments in residential marketplace services, net new sales, contract renewal rates, use of proceeds from equity and debt offerings, the use of proceeds of any draws under our $750 million credit facility (the 2020 Credit Agreement), employee relations, attrition and retention, managements plans, goals and objectives for future operations, deferral of tax payments, sources and adequacy of liquidity, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,