Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. See Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2. for additional factors relating to such statements, and see Risk Factors in Item 1A. of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information, analytics and marketing services to the commercial real estate industry in the United States ("U.S.") and the United Kingdom ("U.K.") based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available; have the largest research department in the industry; own and operate the leading online marketplaces for commercial real estate in the U.S. based on the number of unique visitors per month; provide more information, analytics and marketing services than any of our competitors and believe that we generate more revenues than any of our competitors. We have created and compiled our standardized information, analytics and marketing platform where members of the commercial real estate and related business community can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently exchanging accurate and standardized commercial real estate information. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, information about properties for sale, tenant information, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We also operate complementary online marketplaces for commercial real estate listings and apartment rentals. LoopNet, our subsidiary, operates an online marketplace that enables commercial property owners, landlords, and real estate agents working on their behalf to list properties for sale or for lease and to submit detailed information about property listings. Commercial real estate agents, buyers and tenants also use LoopNet's online marketplace to search for available property listings that meet their criteria. Apartments, LLC (doing business as Apartments.com), a subsidiary of CoStar, operates an online apartment marketplace for renters that matches apartment seekers with apartment homes and provides property managers and owners a platform for marketing their properties. We provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our CoStar Portfolio Strategy and CoStar Market Analytics service offerings, portfolio and debt management and reporting capabilities through our CoStar Investment Analysis service offerings, and real estate and lease management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through our CoStar Real Estate Manager service offerings. Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, retail, industrial, multifamily, commercial land, mixed-use properties and hospitality. Subscription-Based Services Our subscription-based information services consist primarily of CoStar Suite TM services. CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional , CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStarGo. CoStar Suite is our primary service offering in our North America and International operating segments. Prior to the third quarter of 2014, FOCUS TM was our primary service offering in our International operating segment. We introduced CoStar Suite in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2012 and no longer offered FOCUS to new clients beginning in 2013. 26 Our subscription-based services consist primarily of similar services offered over the Internet to commercial real estate industry and related professionals. Our services are typically distributed to our clients under subscription-based license agreements that renew automatically, a majority of which have a term of one year. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than charging fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the client's business focus, geography and the number of services to which a client subscribes. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. As of September 30, 2014 and 2013 , our annualized net new sales of subscription-based services on annual contracts were approximately $15.4 million and $13.7 million , respectively, calculated based on the annualized amount of change in our sales resulting from new annual subscription-based contracts or upsales on existing annual subscription-based contracts, less write downs and cancellations, for the period reported. We recognize subscription revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , our contract renewal rate for existing CoStar subscription-based services was approximately 92% and 93% , respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate for those services was approximately 8% and 7% , respectively, for the same time periods. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if, among other reasons, negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Recent Acquisition On April 1, 2014 (the Closing Date), we increased our presence in the multifamily vertical by acquiring the Apartments.com business, a national online apartment rentals resource for renters, property managers and owners. We purchased from Classified Ventures, LLC (CV) certain assets and assumed certain liabilities, in each case, related to the Apartments.com business (collectively, the Apartments.com Business) for $584.2 million in cash, after taking into account net working capital adjustments. Apartments.com offers renters a database of apartment listings and provides professional property management companies and landlords with an advertising destination. Renters can conduct personalized searches of apartment listings and view video demonstrations and community reviews through the Apartments.com website and mobile applications. The Apartments.com network of rental websites also includes ApartmentHomeLiving.com, another national online apartment rentals resource. On the Closing Date, we also entered into a Credit Agreement (the 2014 Credit Agreement) by and among CoStar, as Borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc., as Co-Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. The 2014 Credit Agreement provides for a $400.0 million term loan facility and a $225.0 million revolving credit facility, each with a term of five years. The proceeds of the term loan facility and the initial borrowing of $150.0 million under the revolving credit facility on the Closing Date were used to refinance the term loan facility and revolving credit facility established under a credit agreement dated February 16, 2012 (the 2012 Credit Agreement), including related fees and expenses, and to pay a portion of the consideration and transaction costs related to the acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. The undrawn proceeds of the revolving credit facility are available for our working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. The obligations under the 2014 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by all of our material subsidiaries and are secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and those of our material subsidiaries, in each case subject to certain exceptions, pursuant to security and guarantee documents entered into on the Closing Date. Similar to past acquisitions, we plan to integrate, further develop and cross-sell the services offered by the Apartments.com Business and the other services we offer. We also plan to incur product development costs to improve the online Apartments.com platform, as well as to increase our sales and marketing expenses in order to support the Apartments.com Business and to increase brand awareness. 27 Expansion and Development We expect to continue our software development efforts to improve existing services, introduce new services, integrate products and services, cross-sell existing services, and expand and develop supporting technologies for our research, sales and marketing organizations. We are committed to supporting and improving our information, news, analytic and marketing services. In October 2013, we introduced technology enhancements to CoStar Suite, our platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant. The enhancements improve CoStar Suite's user interface, search functionality and analytic capabilities. For example, the CoStar Multifamily TM information search feature allows users to access our extensive multifamily property database. In addition, CoStar Lease Analysis TM , an integrated workflow tool, provides users a simple way to produce understandable cash flows for any proposed or existing lease. We plan to continue our software development efforts on our new Lease Analysis workflow tool throughout 2014. We believe this greater functionality will make our services valuable to an even broader audience and help us increase sales of our services to brokers, banks, owners and institutional investors. These technological enhancements are expected to drive continued revenue growth during the remainder of 2014 and for the foreseeable future. In October 2013, we also released CoStarGo 2.0, the next generation of our mobile application, which was launched in the U.S. on August 15, 2011 and introduced in the U.K. on November 5, 2012. CoStarGo is our iPad application that integrates and provides CoStar Suite subscribers mobile access to our comprehensive property, tenant and comparable sales information. CoStarGo 2.0 adds powerful analytic capabilities to our comprehensive mobile solution. We have also introduced enhancements to our flagship marketing platform, LoopNet.com. For example, we added a broker advertising service that allows brokers to purchase advertisements based on geographic and property type criteria. Additionally, we introduced ProVideo, a service that enables owners and brokers to enhance their LoopNet listings with high quality videos of interior spaces, amenities and exterior features. We continue to integrate, develop and cross-sell the services offered by the companies we have acquired, including LoopNet, CoStar Real Estate Manager (formerly known as Virtual Premise), CoStar Investment Analysis (formerly known as Resolve Technology) and CoStar Portfolio Strategy (formerly known as Property and Portfolio Research), and we are working to integrate, develop and cross-sell services offered by the Apartments.com Business. Our objective is to upsell clients to the services that best meet their needs and to create further cross-selling revenue synergies. We evaluate potential changes to our service offerings from time to time in order to better align the services we offer with customers needs. Further, in some cases, when integrating and coordinating our services and assessing industry and client needs, we may decide to combine, shift focus from, de-emphasize, phase out, or eliminate a service that, among other things, overlaps or is redundant with other services we offer. In the event that we eliminate or phase out service offerings, we may experience reduced revenues and earnings. In deciding whether to eliminate or phase out a service offering, we evaluate whether we expect such actions could, over time, ultimately result in increased revenues and earnings from sales of other services we offer in lieu of the eliminated or phased out services. For example, we are currently assessing whether to transition the LoopNet marketplace to a pure marketing site for commercial real estate where eventually all listings would be paid and it would be free to search the site. We would expect to see a short-term reduction in revenues and earnings if we implement this transition. We are assessing the best strategy to implement this shift and convert customers to higher value, more profitable annual subscription information services to increase revenues and earnings over time. At this time, we cannot predict with certainty the amount or timing of any reductions in revenues and earnings or subsequent increases in revenues and earnings, if any, resulting from eliminations or phasing out of the LoopNet information services or any other service offering, if implemented. Our revenues have increased as a result of revenue from acquired businesses and from cross-selling opportunities among the customers of CoStar and acquired companies. We expect to continue to achieve revenue synergies from acquisitions as a result of cross-selling opportunities. We may incur increased expenses in connection with any related marketing and sales campaigns involving cross-selling opportunities and initiatives and in connection with promotion of our new services and brands. To more fully integrate and connect our services and, ultimately, to provide improved access to our resources, we launched a new brand identity in May 2014. The new branding is designed to unite our flagship brands - CoStar, LoopNet, Apartments.com, BizBuySell and LandsofAmerica - with a modern, cohesive look that will enhance customers access to the full breadth of the Companys information, analytics and marketplace solutions. The resulting streamlined network of platforms is expected to improve the customer experience and make it easier for customers to find the most useful tools for their commercial real estate information, analytic and marketplace needs. The new brand identity was unveiled in connection with the launch of the companys new corporate website and newly designed website interfaces for CoStar, LoopNet and Apartments.com. Our new website interfaces provide streamlined navigation and search functions for visitors and enable customers to quickly access our market-leading services. 28 Internationally, we continue to integrate our operations more fully with those in the U.S. Similar to the U.S., we intend to continue to upgrade our international platform of services and expand the coverage of our service offerings within our International segment. To further those initiatives, we introduced CoStar Suite in the U.K. during the fourth quarter of 2012 and no longer offered FOCUS to new clients beginning in 2013. CoStar Suite is sold as a consistent international platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through the Company's mobile application, CoStarGo. CoStarGo 2.0 was released in the U.K. in October 2013 simultaneous with its release in the U.S. Additionally, we upgraded our back-end research operations, fulfillment and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems to support these new U.K. services. The International operating segment continues to experience improved financial performance. During the three months ended December 31, 2013 , International EBITDA increased to a positive amount and remained a positive amount for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 as a result of increased revenue and decreased operating expenses. We recently expanded the geographic reach of our North America services. In 2014, we began offering our services in Toronto, Canada. Building on our experience in Toronto, we plan to expand our research into additional Canadian cities. We believe that our integration efforts and continued investments in our services, including expansion of our existing service offerings, have created a platform for long-term revenue growth. We expect these investments to result in further penetration of our subscription-based information services and the successful cross-selling of our services to customers in existing markets. In support of our continued expansion and development, during June 2014, we completed a public equity offering of 3,450,000 shares of common stock for $160.00 per share, resulting in net proceeds to the company of approximately $529.4 million. We intend to use the net proceeds from the public equity offering to fund all or a portion of the costs of any strategic acquisitions we determine to pursue in the future, to finance the growth of our business and for working capital and other general corporate purposes. We have invested in the expansion and development of our field sales force to support the growth and expansion of our company in North America and internationally. We plan to continue to invest in, evaluate and strategically position our sales force as the company continues to develop and grow. We are also investing in our research capacity to support continued growth of our information and analytics offerings, to support the Apartments.com Business and to expand into additional Canadian markets. While we believe investments we make in our business create a platform for growth, those investments may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We intend to continue to assess the need for additional investments in our business, in addition to the investments discussed above in order to develop and distribute new services within our current platform or expand the reach of our current service offerings. Any future product development or expansion of services, combination and coordination of services or elimination of services or internal expansion, development or restructuring efforts could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Therefore, while we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings in 2014 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, it is possible that any new investments, changes to our service offerings or other unforeseen events could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. Further, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that restrict our operations and use of our cash flow, which may prevent us from taking certain actions that we believe could increase our profitability or otherwise enhance our business. Market Conditions The commercial real estate market has in the past been, and may again be, adversely impacted by many different factors, including lower than expected job growth, which may result in reduced real estate demand; rising interest rates, which may negatively impact investment returns and property sales volumes; excessive speculative new construction, which may result in increased vacancy rates and diminished rent growth; unanticipated natural disasters and other adverse events such as demographic slowing of the growth in the working-age population, which may result in reduced demand growth for all types of real estate; and U.S. and global economic issues. Within the current economic recovery, the commercial real estate recovery has become more widespread. The commercial real estate market is generally growing, and new construction is starting to increase for all property types. While the increase in new construction is a normal part of the real estate cycle, the additional new construction is likely to eventually cause an increase in market vacancy rates and slow or even reduce rental rates. As indicated above, any one of many factors can have an adverse effect upon the real estate markets that we service and could negatively impact the ability and willingness of clients to purchase services from us or result in reductions of services purchased. 29 Despite the growth of the commercial real estate market, business consolidations, and in some circumstances, business failures, continue to occur. If cancellations, reductions of services, and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at lower rates. We compete against many other commercial real estate information, analytics, and marketing service providers for business, including competitors that offer rapidly changing methods of delivering real estate information. If customers choose to cancel our services because of cost cutting, desire to access real estate information through other delivery methods, or other reasons, our revenue could decline. Financial Matters Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. We also believe it is important to evaluate our operating results before and after the effect of currency changes, as it may provide a more accurate comparison of our results of operations over historical periods. Currency exchange rate volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and period-to-period comparisons of our consolidated operations. We currently issue stock options and/or restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations. The amount and timing of the compensation expense that we record depends on the amount and types of equity grants made. We plan to continue to use stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock option grants that typically will require us to record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. Grants of equity awards may vest over time or based on achievement of pre-approved performance conditions. The Committee expects to grant other performance-based equity awards in the future under the Companys 2007 Stock Incentive Plan. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently actively trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. The estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of September 30, 2014 . The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of contractual cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. We update the discounted cash flow model on a quarterly basis to reflect any changes in the assumptions used in the model and settlements of ARS investments that occurred during the period. 30 The only significant unobservable input in the discounted cash flow model is the discount rate. The discount rate used represents our estimate of the yield expected by a market participant from the ARS investments. The weighted average discount rate used in the discounted cash flow model as of September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013 was approximately 5.1% and 4.9% , respectively. Selecting another discount rate within the range used in the discounted cash flow model would not result in a significant change to the fair value of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of September 30, 2014 , we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $1.3 million . The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders' equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of September 30, 2014 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method, and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimated the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. For equity instruments that vest based on a market condition, we estimate the fair value of each equity instrument granted on the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation model, which also requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the equity instruments. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of our stock price. For equity instruments that vest based on performance, we assess the probability of the achievement of the performance conditions at the end of each reporting period, or more frequently based upon the occurrence of events that may change the probability of whether the performance conditions would be met. If our initial estimates of the achievement of the performance conditions change, the related stock-based compensation expense and timing of recognition may fluctuate from period to period based on those estimates. If the performance conditions are not met, no stock-based compensation expense will be recognized, and any previously recognized stock-based compensation expense will be reversed. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 . However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows of the carrying amounts of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, North America and International, as our reporting units under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. 31 To determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our discount rate, growth rate and future financial performance. Assumptions about the discount rate are based on a weighted average cost of capital for comparable companies. Assumptions about the growth rate and future financial performance of a reporting unit are based on our forecasts, business plans, economic projections and anticipated future cash flows. Our assumptions regarding the future financial performance of the International reporting unit reflect our expectation as of October 1, 2013, that revenues will increase as a result of further penetration of our international subscription-based information services and the successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets due to the release of our upgraded international platform and expansion of coverage of our international service offerings. These assumptions are subject to change from period to period and could be adversely impacted by the uncertainty surrounding global market conditions, commercial real estate conditions, and the competitive environment in which we operate. Changes in these or other factors could negatively affect our reporting units' fair value and potentially result in impairment charges. Such impairment charges could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. The International reporting unit continues to experience improved financial performance. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We measure impairment loss based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2013, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2013 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. To determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative impairment test for indefinite-lived intangible assets, we may first assess qualitative factors to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets is less than the carrying amount or if we elect not to assess qualitative factors, then we perform the quantitative impairment test similar to the test performed on goodwill discussed above. As of October 1, 2013, the date of our most recent annual impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of our indefinite-lived intangible assets substantially exceeded the carrying value. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2013 that would indicate that the carrying value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset may not be recoverable. During the first quarter of 2014, we finalized a branding initiative plan that included, among other things, re-branding some of the services provided by our wholly owned subsidiaries, in order to better organize, update, streamline and optimize our branding strategy. We launched the branding initiative externally in the second quarter of 2014. Following the external launch of the branding initiative, we ceased using certain of our trade names. We evaluated these assets for impairment during the first quarter of 2014 and determined that the carrying value of trade names we ceased using exceeded the fair value. We recorded an impairment charge of approximately $1.1 million in cost of revenues in the condensed consolidated statements of operations within our operating segment for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The adjusted carrying value of our trade name intangible assets associated with the branding initiative was amortized through the date of the external launch of the branding initiative and the fully amortized gross carrying amount was written off during the three months ended June 30, 2014. During the third quarter of 2014, we finalized and launched a separate marketing plan that included the re-branding of a service provided by another one of our wholly owned subsidiaries, in order to provide our customers with a more enhanced experience. Following the external launch of the branding initiative, we ceased using one of our trade names. We evaluated the asset for impairment during the third quarter of 2014 and determined that the carrying value of the trade name that we ceased using exceeded the fair value. We recorded an impairment charge of approximately $746,000 in cost of revenues in the condensed consolidated statements of operations within our North America operating segment for the three months ended September 30, 2014. 32 Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our condensed consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share (also referred to as "non-GAAP EPS"). EBITDA is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs, settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income. In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income. In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. 33 EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 26 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information, analytics and marketing services, which has included acquisitions, our net income has included significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs and restructuring costs. Adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe the non-GAAP measures we disclose are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base and the diminishing value of any acquired trade names. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of interest income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of interest expense we incur may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of interest expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Income tax expense may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income: Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, interest expense, and income tax expense as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. 34 Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquisition. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition- and integration-related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are purchase amortization and other related costs, stock-based compensation, acquisition- and integration-related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA together with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income. We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. In 2013 and 2014 , we assumed a 38% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 2013 2014 2013 Net income $ 12,957 $ 11,052 $ 30,946 $ 16,935 Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 7,790 2,954 18,547 9,007 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 8,361 3,680 20,696 11,699 Depreciation and other amortization 4,061 3,388 11,490 9,531 Interest income (46 ) (52 ) (245 ) (239 ) Interest expense 2,698 1,736 8,066 5,249 Income tax expense, net 7,871 7,034 18,763 10,510 EBITDA $ 43,692 $ 29,792 $ 108,263 $ 62,692 Net cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 52,702 $ 31,261 $ 96,036 $ 72,828 Investing activities (8,828 ) (6,410 ) (603,933 ) (15,244 ) Financing activities (2,285 ) 7,858 738,248 9,219 35 Comparison of Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 and Three Months Ended September 30, 2013 Revenues. Revenues increased to $153.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from $112.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The $40.8 million increase was primarily attributable to increased revenue of approximately $26.0 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $112.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from $80.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The gross margin percentage increased to 73.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from 71.8% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was primarily due to an increase in revenues partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues of $9.2 million primarily due to the additional cost of revenues from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $40.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from $23.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 26.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 21.0% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the additional selling and marketing expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $14.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from $11.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 10.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount of software development expenses was primarily due to the additional software development expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $25.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from $21.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 16.6% for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 19.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the additional general and administrative expenses of $1.5 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business, an increase in certain personnel costs of approximately $800,000 and an increase in bad debt expense of approximately $700,000. Purchase Amortization . Purchase amortization increased to $8.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to $3.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 5.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 3.3% for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was primarily due to the additional purchase amortization expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. Interest and Other Income . Interest and other income decreased slightly to approximately $46,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 compared to approximately $52,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense increased to $2.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 compared to $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase was due to the increase in interest expense resulting from a higher outstanding long-term debt balance during the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Income Tax Expense, net . Income tax expense, net increased to $7.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to $7.0 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase was primarily due to higher income before income taxes for the three months ended September 30, 2014 as a result of our increased profitability. 36 Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 and Three Months Ended September 30, 2013 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being North America, which includes the U.S. and Canada, and International, which includes the U.K. and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Suite is sold as a platform of service offerings consisting of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar COMPS Professional and CoStar Tenant and through our mobile application, CoStarGo, and is our primary service offering in our North America and International operating segments. Prior to the third quarter of 2014, FOCUS was our primary service offering in our International operating segment. We introduced CoStar Suite in the U.K. in the fourth quarter of 2012 and no longer offered FOCUS to new clients beginning in 2013. North America revenues increased to $146.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from $107.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase in North America revenue was primarily due to increased revenue of approximately $26.0 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $6.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to $5.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Intersegment revenue decreased to approximately $5,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to approximately $131,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . Intersegment revenue recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2014 was attributable to services performed for CoStar Portfolio Strategy by Grecam S.A.S. (Grecam), a wholly owned subsidiary of CoStar Limited, the Company's wholly owned U.K. holding company. Intersegment revenue recorded during the three months ended September 30, 2013 was attributable to services performed for the Companys wholly owned subsidiary, CoStar Portfolio Strategy by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd., a wholly owned subsidiary of CoStar Portfolio Strategy. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount we believe approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. Segment EBITDA . North America EBITDA increased to $42.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from $30.9 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in North America EBITDA resulted primarily from an increase in revenues for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the three months ended September 30, 2013 . International EBITDA increased to $763,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 , from a loss of $1.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase in International EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenues. North America EBITDA includes an allocation of approximately $200,000 and $300,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. This allocation represents costs incurred for International employees involved in development activities of the Company's North America operating segment. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $100,000 for each of the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 . This corporate allocation represents costs incurred for North America employees involved in management and expansion activities of the Company's International operating segment. Comparison of Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 Revenues. Revenues increased to $419.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from $325.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The $94.5 million increase was primarily attributable to increased revenue of approximately $51.1 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Gross Margin . Gross margin increased to $305.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from $227.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The gross margin percentage increased to 72.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from 70.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was primarily due to an increase in revenues partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues of $16.6 million primarily due to the additional cost of revenues from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. 37 Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $109.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from $74.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 26.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 22.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the additional selling and marketing expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $41.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from $35.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 9.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 10.8% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount of software development expenses was primarily due to the additional software development expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $76.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from $74.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , and decreased as a percentage of revenues to 18.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 22.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to additional general and administrative expenses of $4.2 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business, bad debt expense of approximately $1.4 million and depreciation of approximately $900,000 as well as acquisition-related costs of $1.4 million that did not occur during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . These increases were partially offset by a decrease in personnel costs of $6.9 million, a majority of which was due to decreased stock-based compensation expense. Purchase Amortization . Purchase amortization increased to $20.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to $11.7 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 , and increased as a percentage of revenues to 4.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to 3.6% for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in the amount and percentage of purchase amortization expense was primarily due to the additional purchase amortization expenses from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. Interest and Other Income . Interest and other income increased slightly to approximately $245,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to approximately $239,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Interest and Other Expense. Interest and other expense increased to $8.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to $5.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase was due to the increase in interest expense resulting from a higher outstanding long-term debt balance during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Income Tax Expense, net . Income tax expense, net increased to $18.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to $10.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase was primarily due to higher income before income taxes for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 as a result of our increased profitability. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2013 Segment Revenues . North America revenues increased to $402.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from $310.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase in North America revenue was primarily due to increased revenue of approximately $51.1 million from our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business as well as the further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. International revenues increased to $17.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to $14.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services resulting from sales of CoStar Suite. Intersegment revenue decreased to approximately $41,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to approximately $277,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Intersegment revenue recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was attributable to services performed for CoStar Portfolio Strategy by Grecam. Intersegment revenue recorded during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 was attributable to services performed for CoStar Portfolio Strategy by Property and Portfolio Research Ltd. Intersegment revenue is recorded at an amount we believe approximates fair value. Intersegment revenue is eliminated from total revenues. 38 Segment EBITDA . North America EBITDA increased to $106.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from $66.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . The increase in North America EBITDA resulted primarily from an increase in revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , compared to the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . International EBITDA increased to $1.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , from a loss of $3.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This increase in International EBITDA was primarily due to an increase in revenues and a decrease in operating expenses. North America EBITDA includes an allocation of approximately $900,000 and $600,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. This allocation represents costs incurred for International employees involved in development activities of the Company's North America operating segment. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $200,000 and $300,000 for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. This corporate allocation represents costs incurred for North America employees involved in management and expansion activities of the Company's International operating segment. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and debt from our term loan and revolving credit facility. Total cash and cash equivalents increased to $486.2 million as of September 30, 2014 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $256.0 million as of December 31, 2013 . The increase in cash and cash equivalents for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was primarily due to $529.4 million in net proceeds from our public equity offering in June 2014 of 3,450,000 shares of common stock for $160.00 per share and borrowings of $400.0 million under the 2014 Credit Agreement, partially offset by the net cash paid for our April 1, 2014 acquisition of the Apartments.com Business of $584.2 million and the $148.8 million repayment of the amounts owed under the 2012 Credit Agreement. Changes in cash and cash equivalents are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was approximately $96.0 million compared to approximately $72.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This $23.2 million increase was primarily due to an increase of $19.5 million in net income plus non-cash items as well as a net increase of $3.7 million in changes in operating assets and liabilities. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was approximately $603.9 million compared to approximately $15.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This $588.7 million increase in net cash used in investing activities was primarily due to $584.2 million of cash used for the acquisition of the Apartments.com Business on April 1, 2014. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $738.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 compared to approximately $9.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . This $729.0 million change was primarily due to proceeds of $550.0 million received under the term loan facility and revolving credit facility on April 1, 2014 and the $529.4 million in net proceeds from our public equity offering in June 2014 less the $148.8 million repayment of amounts owed under the 2012 Credit Agreement, $150.0 million repayment of the revolving credit facility associated with the 2014 Credit Agreement and the $10.0 million payment of debt issuance costs associated with the 2014 Credit Agreement which did not occur during the nine months ended September 30, 2013 . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, among others, our operating results, expansion and integration efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. During the nine months ended September 30, 2014 , we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $20.9 million . We expect to make aggregate capital expenditures in 2014 of approximately $25.0 million to $30.0 million, primarily related to information technology equipment and the build out of leased office space. Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. 39 On April 1, 2014, we purchased the Apartments.com Business from CV for a purchase price of $587.1 million, which was later reduced by approximately $2.9 million following the final determination of the net working capital of the Apartments.com Business as of the Closing Date. On the Closing Date, we entered into a Credit Agreement (the 2014 Credit Agreement) by and among CoStar, as Borrower, CoStar Realty Information, Inc., as Co-Borrower, the Lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent. We funded the purchase price for the Apartments.com Business at closing through a combination of cash on hand and the proceeds of the term loan facility and the initial borrowing under the revolving credit facility under the 2014 Credit Agreement. The 2014 Credit Agreement provides for a $400.0 million term loan facility and a $225.0 million revolving credit facility, each with a term of five years. The proceeds of the term loan facility and the initial borrowing of $150.0 million under the revolving credit facility on the Closing Date were used to refinance the term loan facility and revolving credit facility established under a credit agreement dated February 16, 2012 (the 2012 Credit Agreement), including related fees and expenses, and pay a portion of the consideration and transaction costs related to the acquisition of the Apartments.com Business. The undrawn proceeds of the revolving credit facility are available for our working capital needs and other general corporate purposes. As of September 30, 2014 , maturities of our borrowings under the 2014 Credit Agreement for each of the next five years ended September 30, 2015 to 2019, are expected to be $20.0 million , $20.0 million , $30.0 million , $50.0 million and $270.0 million , respectively. During June 2014, we repaid the $150.0 million initial borrowing under the revolving credit facility. The revolving credit facility includes a subfacility for swingline loans of up to $10.0 million, and up to $10.0 million of the revolving credit facility is available for the issuance of letters of credit. The term loan facility will amortize in quarterly installments in amounts resulting in an annual amortization of 5% during each of the first, second and third years, 10% during the fourth year and 15% during the fifth year after the Closing Date, with the remainder payable at final maturity. The loans under the 2014 Credit Agreement bear interest, at our option, either (i) during any interest period selected by us, at the London interbank offered rate for deposits in U.S. dollars with a maturity comparable to such interest period, adjusted for statutory reserves (LIBOR), plus an initial spread of 2.00% per annum, subject to adjustment based on our First Lien Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2014 Credit Agreement), or (ii) at the greatest of (x) the prime rate from time to time announced by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., (y) the federal funds effective rate plus of 1% and (z) LIBOR for a one-month interest period plus 1.00%, plus an initial spread of 1.00% per annum, subject to adjustment based on our First Lien Secured Leverage Ratio. If an event of default occurs under the 2014 Credit Agreement, the interest rate on overdue amounts will increase by 2.00% per annum. The obligations under the 2014 Credit Agreement are guaranteed by all of our material subsidiaries and are secured by a lien on substantially all of our assets and those of our material subsidiaries, in each case subject to certain exceptions, pursuant to security and guarantee documents entered into on the Closing Date. The 2014 Credit Agreement requires us to maintain (i) a First Lien Secured Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2014 Credit Agreement) not exceeding 4.00 to 1.00 during each full fiscal quarter after the Closing Date through the three months ended March 31, 2016, and 3.50 to 1.00 thereafter and (ii) after the incurrence of additional indebtedness under certain specified exceptions in the 2014 Credit Agreement, a Total Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2014 Credit Agreement) not exceeding 5.00 to 1.00 during each full fiscal quarter after the Closing Date through the three months ended March 31, 2016, and 4.50 to 1.00 thereafter. The 2014 Credit Agreement also includes other covenants, including covenants that, subject to certain exceptions, restrict our ability to (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) create, incur, assume or permit to exist any liens, (iii) enter into mergers, consolidations or similar transactions, (iv) make investments and acquisitions, (v) make certain dispositions of assets, (vi) make dividends, distributions and prepayments of certain indebtedness, and (vii) enter into certain transactions with affiliates. In connection with obtaining the term loan facility and revolving credit facility pursuant to the 2014 Credit Agreement, we incurred approximately $10.1 million in debt issuance costs as of April 1, 2014. The debt issuance costs were comprised of approximately $9.7 million in underwriting fees and approximately $400,000 primarily related to legal fees associated with the debt issuance. Approximately $10.0 million of the fees associated with the refinancing, along with the unamortized debt issuance cost from the 2012 Credit Agreement, are capitalized and amortized as interest expense over the term of the 2014 Credit Agreement using the effective interest method. As of September 30, 2014 and December 31, 2013 , no amounts were outstanding under our revolving credit facilities. Total interest expense for our term loan facilities and revolving credit facilities was approximately $2.7 million and $1.7 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Total interest expense for the term loan facilities and revolving credit facilities was approximately $8.1 million and $5.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Interest expense included amortized debt issuance costs of approximately $904,000 and $760,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Interest expense included amortized debt issuance costs of approximately $2.5 million and $2.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Total interest paid for the term loan facilities was approximately $1.7 million and $1.3 million for the three months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. Total interest paid for the term loan facilities was approximately $5.4 million and $3.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2014 and 2013 , respectively. 40 In 2012, we granted a total of 399,413 shares pursuant to performance-based restricted common stock awards with a forfeiture date of March 31, 2017. Upon vesting of these awards during the first quarter of 2014, consistent with minimum tax withholding requirements, a portion of the shares subject to the awards were remitted by the employees for payment of their individual income tax obligations. The shares remitted were canceled and we made a cash tax payment equivalent to the fair market value of the canceled shares of approximately $31.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2014. As of September 30, 2014 , we had $23.2 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the FFELP of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash and cash equivalents, and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investments below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. As more fully described in Note 9 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, on January 3, 2012, LoopNet, our wholly owned subsidiary, was sued by CIVIX-DDI, LLC (Civix) for alleged patent infringement, and on or about May 14, 2012, Civix filed a motion for leave to amend its complaint against LoopNet seeking to add CoStar as a defendant, alleging that our products also infringe Civixs patents. The complaint seeks unspecified damages, attorneys' fees and costs. On October 6, 2014 we offered to settle all outstanding litigation with Civix for $1.5 million. The Court subsequently granted a motion submitted by the parties requesting a settlement conference, which is scheduled to take place on November 20, 2014. At this time we cannot predict the outcome of the litigation with Civix, but we intend to vigorously defend against Civixs claims. While we believe we have meritorious defenses against Civixs claims, we estimate that, based on our adjusted calculation of Civixs alleged damages, the matter could result in a loss of up to $2.2 million in excess of the amount accrued. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no developments to the Recent Accounting Pronouncements discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 , including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated financial statements, except for the following: In May 2014, the FASB and International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) jointly issued a new revenue recognition standard that will improve financial reporting by creating common recognition guidance for U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This guidance removes inconsistencies and weaknesses in revenue requirements, provides a more robust framework for addressing revenue issues, improves the comparability of revenue recognition practices across industries, provides more useful information to users of financial statements through improved disclosure requirements and simplifies the presentation of financial statements. The core principle of the guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. This guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early application is not permitted. We are evaluating the impact this guidance will have on our financial statements. 41 Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our press releases and conference calls that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2014 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions about our revenues, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, net income per share, fully diluted net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, taxable income, cash flow from operating activities, available cash, operating costs, amortization expense, intangible asset recovery, capital and other expenditures, effective tax rate, equity compensation charges, future taxable income, purchase amortization, the anticipated benefits of completed acquisitions, the anticipated benefits of cross-selling efforts, the timing of future payments of principal under our $400.0 million term loan facility available to us under the 2014 Credit Agreement, expectations regarding our compliance with financial and restrictive covenants in our 2014 Credit Agreement, acquisitions, financing plans, geographic expansion, product development and release, sales and marketing campaigns, product integrations, elimination and de-emphasizing of services, contract renewal rate, capital structure, contractual obligations, legal proceedings and claims, our database, database growth, services and facilities, employee relations, future economic performance, our ability to liquidate or realize our long-term investments, management's plans, goals and objectives for future operations, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,