Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements, including statements about our beliefs and expectations. See Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements at the end of this Item 2. for additional factors relating to such statements, and see Risk Factors in Item 1A. of Part II of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of certain risk factors applicable to our business, financial condition and results of operations. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us on the date of this filing and we assume no obligation to update such statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission and the condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview CoStar Group, Inc. (the Company or CoStar) is the number one provider of information and analytic services to the commercial real estate industry in the U.S. and the U.K. based on the fact that we offer the most comprehensive commercial real estate database available, have the largest research department in the industry, provide more information and analytic services than any of our competitors and believe we generate more revenues than any of our competitors. We have created a standardized information and analytic platform where members of the commercial real estate and related business community can continuously interact and facilitate transactions by efficiently exchanging accurate and standardized commercial real estate information. Our integrated suite of online service offerings includes information about space available for lease, comparable sales information, tenant information, information about properties for sale, internet marketing services, analytical capabilities, information for clients' websites, information about industry professionals and their business relationships, data integration and industry news. We also provide market research and analysis for commercial real estate investors and lenders via our Property and Portfolio Research, Inc. (PPR) service offerings, portfolio and debt management and reporting capabilities through our Resolve Technology, Inc. (Resolve Technology) service offerings, and real estate management solutions, including lease administration and abstraction services, through Virtual Premise, Inc. (Virtual Premise). Our service offerings span all commercial property types, including office, industrial, retail, land, mixed-use, hospitality and multifamily. Since 1994, we have expanded the geographical coverage of our existing information and developed new information and analytic services. In addition to internal growth, this expansion included the acquisitions of Chicago ReSource, Inc. in Chicago in 1996 and New Market Systems, Inc. in San Francisco in 1997. In August 1998, we expanded into the Houston region through the acquisition of Houston-based real estate information provider C Data Services, Inc. In January 1999, we expanded further into the Midwest and Florida by acquiring LeaseTrend, Inc. and into Atlanta and Dallas/Fort Worth by acquiring Jamison Research, Inc. In February 2000, we acquired COMPS.COM, Inc., a San Diego-based provider of commercial real estate information. In November 2000, we acquired First Image Technologies, Inc., a California-based provider of commercial real estate software. In September 2002, we expanded further into Portland, Oregon through the acquisition of certain assets of Napier Realty Advisors (doing business as REAL-NET). In January 2003, we established a base in the U.K. with our acquisition of London-based FOCUS Information Limited. In May 2004, we expanded into Tennessee through the acquisition of Peer Market Research, Inc., and in September 2004, we extended our coverage of the U.K. through the acquisition of Scottish Property Network. In September 2004, we strengthened our position in Denver, Colorado through the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of RealComp, Inc., a local comparable sales information provider. In January 2005, we acquired National Research Bureau, a Connecticut-based provider of U.S. shopping center information. In December 2006, our U.K. subsidiary, CoStar Limited, acquired Grecam S.A.S. (Grecam), a provider of commercial property information and market-level surveys, studies and consulting services located in Paris, France. In February 2007, CoStar Limited also acquired Property Investment Exchange Limited (Propex), a provider of commercial property information and operator of an electronic platform that facilitates the exchange of investment property located in London, England. In April 2008, we acquired the assets of First CLS, Inc. (doing business as the Dorey Companies and DoreyPRO), an Atlanta-based provider of local commercial real estate information. In July 2009, we acquired Massachusetts-based PPR, a provider of real estate analysis, market forecasts and credit risk analytics to the commercial real estate industry, and its wholly owned U.K. subsidiary Property and Portfolio Research Ltd. (PPR Ltd.), and in October 2009, we acquired Massachusetts-based Resolve Technology, a provider of business intelligence and portfolio management software serving the institutional real estate investment industry. Most recently, in October 2011, we acquired Virtual Premise, a Software as a Service (SaaS) provider of real estate information management solutions located in Atlanta, Georgia. 25 We have consistently worked to expand our service offerings, both in terms of geographical coverage and the scope of services offered, in order to position the company for future revenue growth. In 2004, we began our expansion into 21 new metropolitan markets throughout the U.S. and began expanding the geographical coverage of many of our existing U.S. and U.K. markets. We completed our expansion into the 21 new markets in the first quarter of 2006. In early 2005, in conjunction with the acquisition of National Research Bureau, we launched a major effort to expand our coverage of retail real estate information. The retail component of our flagship product, CoStar Property Professional, was unveiled in May 2006 at the International Council of Shopping Centers convention in Las Vegas. During the second half of 2006, in order to expand the geographical coverage of our service offerings, we began actively researching commercial properties in 81 new Core Based Statistical Areas (CBSAs) in the U.S., we increased our U.S. field research fleet by adding 89 vehicles and we hired researchers to staff these vehicles. We released our CoStar Property Professional service in the 81 new CBSAs across the U.S. in the fourth quarter of 2007. Throughout our recent expansion efforts, we have remained focused on ensuring that CoStar continues to provide the quality of information our customers expect. As such, in 2010 we expanded our research operations in order to continue to meet customer expectations. During the second half of 2009, as a part of our strategy to provide subscribers with tools for conducting primary research and analysis on commercial real estate, we expanded subscribers capabilities to use CoStars database of research-verified commercial property information to conduct in-depth analysis and generate reports on trends in sales and leasing activity online. Further, in July 2009, we acquired PPR and its wholly owned subsidiary, providers of real estate investment analysis and market forecasting services. We intend to integrate our international operations more fully with those in the U.S. We have gained operational efficiencies as a result of consolidating a majority of our U.K. research operations in one location in Glasgow and combining the majority of our remaining U.K. operations in one central location in London. We intend to introduce a consistent international platform of service offerings in 2012. In 2007, we introduced the CoStar Group as the brand encompassing our international operations. In early 2010 we launched Showcase, our Internet marketing service that provides commercial real estate professionals high quality internet lead generation, in the U.K. We expect to introduce CoStar Property Professional , CoStar COMPS Professional , CoStar Tenant and CoStarGo, our iPad application, in the U.K. by the end of 2012. Additionally, we plan to upgrade back end research operations, fulfillment and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems in the U.K. to support the new U.K. services. In order to implement these services in the U.K., we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur development costs. We believe that our continued investments in U.S. products, internationalization of our products and integration efforts have created a platform for long-term growth, which we intend to continue to develop, invest in and expand. We expect to continue to develop and distribute new services, expand existing services within our current platform (including internationally), and expand and develop our sales and marketing organization. On August 15, 2011, we launched CoStarGo in the U.S.; CoStarGo is an iPad application that integrates our comprehensive property, tenant and comparable sales information in our suite of online products CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant and CoStar COMPS Professional. We supported the launch with an extensive marketing campaign during the third quarter of 2011, including a 34-city national launch tour to drive early adoption of the service. We incurred expenses of approximately $3.4 million during the third quarter of 2011 in connection with the launch of CoStarGo. We are also working to provide additional tools that make our research and analytics even more valuable to subscribers. For example, we are focusing on further integration and development of the PPR and Resolve Technology service offerings. We have launched an initiative to develop a discounted cash flow (DCF) forecasting and valuation solution that effectively integrates the combined capabilities of CoStars market and property information and PPRs analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technologys real estate investment software expertise. In order to implement this initiative, we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur additional costs. While our investments in PPR and Resolve Technology have resulted and may continue to result in an increase in expenses, our revenues have also increased as a result of these acquisitions, and we have experienced increased cross-selling opportunities among CoStar and the acquired companies. 26 Any future product development or expansion of services could reduce our profitability and increase our capital expenditures. Therefore, while we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings for 2011 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, it is possible that any new investments could cause us to generate losses and negative cash flow from operations in the future. On April 27, 2011, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire LoopNet, Inc. (LoopNet) (NASDAQ: LOOP). Pursuant to the merger agreement, LoopNet stockholders will receive $16.50 in cash and 0.03702 shares of CoStar common stock for each share of LoopNet common stock, representing a total equity value of approximately $860.0 million and an enterprise value of $762.0 million. The boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved the transaction, and the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of LoopNets common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class on an as-converted basis, have approved adoption of the merger agreement. We have received a commitment letter from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (J.P. Morgan Bank) for a fully committed term loan of $415.0 million and a $50.0 million revolving credit facility, of which $37.5 million are committed. This loan will be available, subject to customary conditions, to fund the acquisition and our ongoing working capital needs following the transaction. In June 2011, we also completed an equity offering and received net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million. We intend to use these proceeds to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable in connection with the acquisition of LoopNet. The LoopNet transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including antitrust clearance. The transaction is not subject to a financing condition. As previously disclosed in the proxy statement/prospectus dated June 6, 2011, both CoStar and LoopNet filed notification and report forms with the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) pursuant to the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976 (the HSR Act), on May 31, 2011. As a result, the waiting period under the HSR Act with respect to the proposed merger between CoStar and LoopNet (the "merger") was scheduled to expire on June 30, 2011. As previously reported, on June 30, 2011, CoStar and LoopNet each received a request for additional information (commonly referred to as a second request) from the FTC with respect to the proposed merger. CoStar and LoopNet have been working cooperatively with the FTC in connection with its review and expect to certify substantial compliance with the second request shortly. At the FTCs request, CoStar and LoopNet have agreed to extend the waiting period imposed by the HSR Act from 30 to 60 days after the date of substantial compliance with the second request unless that period is extended voluntarily by the parties or terminated sooner by the FTC. While the parties remain hopeful that the FTC will complete its review in a time frame that would permit the merger to close by the end of 2011, the current timing is such that it is quite possible that the merger may not close by such time. Completion of the merger remains subject to the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the HSR Act and other customary closing conditions. In certain circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, LoopNet may be obligated to pay us a termination fee of $25.8 million. Similarly, in certain circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, we may be obligated to pay LoopNet a termination fee of $51.6 million. In light of our agreement to acquire LoopNet, we are currently evaluating how best to integrate the two businesses. We expect that while we await final antitrust approval of the transaction over the course of the coming months we will continue to assess and finalize any plans for additional investments in our business for the foreseeable future. At this time we expect to continue to develop and distribute new services within our current platform, such as CoStarGo. We also expect to continue our efforts to integrate the combined capabilities of CoStars market and property information and PPRs analytics and forecasting expertise with Resolve Technologys real estate investment software expertise. While we expect current service offerings to remain profitable, driving overall earnings for 2011 and providing substantial cash flow for our business, our proposed merger with LoopNet and the eventual integration of our two businesses could reduce our profitability, cause us to generate losses and adversely affect our financial position. Further, we intend to enter into credit facilities if the LoopNet acquisition is completed, which may contain restrictive covenants that may restrict our operations and use of our cash flow. 27 In some cases, the business operations of some of our clients continue to be negatively affected by challenging economic conditions in the U.S. and the world, resulting at times in business consolidations and, in some circumstances, business failure. If cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at reduced rates. Additionally, current economic conditions may cause customers to reduce expenses, and customers may be forced to purchase fewer services from us or cancel all services. We compete against many other commercial real estate information and analytic service providers for business. If customers choose to cancel our services for cost-cutting or other reasons, our revenue could decline. There continue to be clear signs of improving conditions in the commercial real estate industry, including strong leasing activity and positive net absorption of office space, although the pace of improvement has noticeably slowed from the end of 2010, reflecting lower than expected job growth and continued uncertainty over U.S. and global economic issues. The extent and duration of continued improvement of the economy and the commercial real estate industry is unknown. Because of these uncertainties and any resulting impact on our business, we may not be able to accurately forecast our revenue or earnings. Based on current economic conditions, we believe that the Company is positioned to generate continued, sustained earnings from current operations in 2011 and for the foreseeable future. Our financial reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. Changes in exchange rates can significantly affect our reported results and consolidated trends. We believe that our increasing diversification beyond the U.S. economy through our international businesses benefits our stockholders over the long term. We also believe it is important to evaluate our operating results before and after the effect of currency changes, as it may provide a more accurate comparison of our results of operations over historical periods. Currency exchange rate volatility may continue, which may impact (either positively or negatively) our reported financial results and consolidated trends and period-to-period comparisons of our consolidated operations. We currently issue stock options and/or restricted stock to our officers, directors and employees, and as a result we record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations. We plan to continue the use of stock-based compensation for our officers, directors and employees, which may include, among other things, restricted stock, restricted stock units or stock option grants that typically will require us to record additional compensation expense in our consolidated statements of operations and reduce our net income. On February 5, 2010, we took advantage of favorable market conditions and purchased an office building in downtown Washington, DC for $41.25 million for use as our new headquarters and have since relocated to this location. The lease for our previous headquarters in Bethesda, MD expired on October 15, 2010; therefore, we incurred overlapping occupancy costs through the end of the Bethesda lease term as we transitioned to our new headquarters. We were able to create value through our occupancy of the building in Washington, DC and on February 18, 2011, sold the building for aggregate consideration of $101.0 million, $15.0 million of which was designated to fund additional build-out and planned improvements at the building. As part of the sale, we entered into a long-term lease with the buyer to lease back approximately 88% of the office space, where our corporate headquarters will remain. During the third quarter of 2011, we incurred approximately $1.5 million of restructuring costs associated with the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office with our Columbia, Maryland and Washington, DC offices. Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional, and FOCUS services currently generate more than 93% of our total revenues. CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. The majority of our contracts for our subscription-based information services typically have a minimum term of one year and renew automatically. Upon renewal, many of the subscription contract rates may change in accordance with contract provisions or as a result of contract renegotiations. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the clients business focus, geography and the 28 number of services to which a client subscribes. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. We recognize this revenue on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract. Annual and quarterly advance payments result in deferred revenue, substantially reducing the working capital requirements generated by accounts receivable. For the twelve months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, our contract renewal rate for subscription-based services was approximately 93% and 90%, respectively, and therefore our cancellation rate was approximately 7% and 10%, respectively, for the same periods of time. Our contract renewal rate is a quantitative measurement that is typically closely correlated with our revenue results. As a result, management also believes that the rate may be a reliable indicator of short-term and long-term performance. Our trailing twelve-month contract renewal rate may decline if negative economic conditions lead to greater business failures and/or consolidations among our clients, further reductions in customer spending, or decreases in our customer base. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and revenues and expenses during the period reported. The following accounting policies involve a critical accounting estimate because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by management about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimates are made. In addition, while we have used our best estimates based on facts and circumstances available to us at the time, different acceptable assumptions would yield different results. Changes in the accounting estimates are reasonably likely to occur from period to period, which may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition and results of operations. We review these estimates and assumptions periodically and reflect the effects of revisions in the period that they are determined to be necessary. Fair Value of Auction Rate Securities Fair value is defined as the price that would be received in the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. There is a three-tier fair value hierarchy, which categorizes assets and liabilities by the inputs used in measuring fair value. These tiers include: Level 1, defined as observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, defined as inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, defined as unobservable inputs for which little or no market data exists, therefore requiring an entity to develop its own assumptions. Our Level 3 assets consist of auction rate securities (ARS), whose underlying assets are primarily student loan securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. Our ARS investments are not currently trading and therefore do not currently have a readily determinable market value. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of the ARS no longer approximates par value. We have used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our investment in ARS as of September 30, 2011. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, credit spreads, timing and amount of cash flows, liquidity risk premiums, expected holding periods and default risk of the ARS. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of September 30, 2011, we determined there was a decline in the fair value of our ARS investments of approximately $3.0 million. The decline was deemed to be a temporary impairment and recorded as an unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss in stockholders equity. If the issuers of these ARS are unable to successfully close future auctions and/or their credit ratings deteriorate, we may be required to record additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to determine the fair value of the ARS. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to determine the unobservable inputs used to calculate the fair value of the ARS as of September 30, 2011. However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, we may be exposed to additional unrealized losses in accumulated other comprehensive loss or an other-than-temporary impairment charge to earnings on these investments. 29 Fair Value of Deferred Consideration We had no Level 3 liabilities as of September 30, 2011. As of September 30, 2010, we held Level 3 liabilities for deferred consideration related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. The deferred consideration totaled $3.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and included (i) a potential deferred cash payment two years after closing based on the incremental growth of Resolve Technologys revenue, and (ii) other potential deferred cash payments for successful completion of operational and sales milestones during the period from closing through October 31, 2013, which period may be extended by the parties to a date no later than December 31, 2014. On June 24, 2011, we made a payment to the seller of Resolve Technology of $500,000 as a result of the successful completion of one of the operational milestones. On September 8, 2011, we entered into an agreement to settle all remaining potential deferred cash payments due under the original agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, we made a payment of $1.6 million on September 14, 2011 to settle the entire obligation. We reversed the remaining $1.2 million deferred consideration as a reduction to general and administrative expense during the three months ended September 30, 2011. Prior to the settlement on September 8, 2011, we used a discounted cash flow model to determine the estimated fair value of our Level 3 liabilities. The significant assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model included the discount rate, estimates for future incremental revenue growth and probabilities for completion of operational and sales milestones. Stock-Based Compensation We account for equity instruments issued in exchange for employee services using a fair-value based method and we recognize the fair value of such equity instruments as an expense in the consolidated statements of operations. We estimated the fair value of each option granted on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires us to estimate the dividend yield, expected volatility, risk-free interest rate and expected life of the stock option. These assumptions and the estimation of expected forfeitures are based on multiple factors, including historical employee behavior patterns of exercising options and post-employment termination behavior, expected future employee option exercise patterns, and the historical volatility of the Companys stock price. We do not expect any material changes in the near term to the underlying assumptions used to calculate stock-based compensation expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. However, if changes in these assumptions occur, and, should those changes be significant, they could have a material impact on our stock-based compensation expense. Valuation of Long-Lived and Intangible Assets and Goodwill We assess the impairment of long-lived assets, identifiable intangibles and goodwill whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Judgments made by management relate to the expected useful lives of long-lived assets and our ability to realize any undiscounted cash flows of the carrying amounts of such assets. The accuracy of these judgments may be adversely affected by several factors, including the factors listed below: Significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results; Significant changes in the manner of our use of the acquired assets or the strategy for our overall business; Significant negative industry or economic trends; or Significant decline in our market capitalization relative to net book value for a sustained period. When we determine that the carrying value of long-lived and identifiable intangible assets may not be recovered based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators, we test for impairment. Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets that are not subject to amortization are tested annually for impairment by each reporting unit on October 1 of each year and are also tested for impairment more frequently based upon the existence of one or more of the above indicators. We consider our operating segments, U.S. and International, as our reporting units under Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) authoritative guidance for consideration of potential impairment of goodwill. 30 The goodwill impairment test is a two-step process. The first step is to determine the fair value of each reporting unit. We estimate the fair value of each reporting unit based on a projected discounted cash flow model that includes significant assumptions and estimates including our future financial performance and a weighted average cost of capital. The fair value of each reporting unit is compared to the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then the second step of the process is performed to measure the impairment loss. We measure impairment loss based on a projected discounted cash flow method using a discount rate determined by our management to be commensurate with the risk in our current business model. As of October 1, 2010, the date of our most recent impairment analysis, the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying value of our reporting units. There have been no events or changes in circumstances since the date of our impairment analysis on October 1, 2010 that would indicate that the carrying value of each reporting unit may not be recoverable. Accounting for Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. This process requires us to estimate our actual current tax exposure and assess the temporary differences resulting from differing treatment of items, such as deferred revenue or deductibility of certain intangible assets, for tax and accounting purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities, which are included within our consolidated balance sheets. We must then also assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income, and, to the extent we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized, we must establish a valuation allowance. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance or change the allowance in a period, we must reflect the corresponding increase or decrease within the tax provision in the consolidated statements of operations. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We prepare and publicly release quarterly unaudited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP. We also disclose and discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures in our public releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we may disclose include EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA is our net income (loss) before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. We typically disclose EBITDA on a consolidated and an operating segment basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Adjusted EBITDA is different from EBITDA because we further adjust EBITDA for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs and settlements and impairments incurred outside our ordinary course of business. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are similarly adjusted for stock-based compensation expense, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business as well as purchase amortization and other related costs. We may disclose adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share on a consolidated basis in our earnings releases, investor conference calls and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures that we use may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Also, in the future, we may disclose different non-GAAP financial measures in order to help our investors more meaningfully evaluate and compare our results of operations to our previously reported results of operations or to those of other companies in our industry. We view EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as operating performance measures and as such we believe that the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is net income (loss). In calculating EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share, we exclude from net income (loss) the financial items that we believe should be separately identified to provide additional analysis of the financial components of the day-to-day operation of our business. We have outlined below the type and scope of these exclusions and the material limitations on the use of these non-GAAP financial measures as a result of these exclusions. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are not measurements of financial performance under GAAP and should not be 31 considered as a measure of liquidity, as an alternative to net income (loss) or as an indicator of any other measure of performance derived in accordance with GAAP. Investors and potential investors in our securities should not rely on EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share as a substitute for any GAAP financial measure, including net income (loss). In addition, we urge investors and potential investors in our securities to carefully review the GAAP financial information included as part of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K that are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well as our quarterly earnings releases, and compare the GAAP financial information with our EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share may be used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and may be used by investors as supplemental financial measures to evaluate the performance of our business. We believe that these non-GAAP measures, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. We have spent more than 23 years building our database of commercial real estate information and expanding our markets and services partially through acquisitions of complementary businesses. Due to the expansion of our information and analytic services, which included acquisitions, our net income (loss) has included significant charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition costs and restructuring costs. EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share exclude these charges and provide meaningful information about the operating performance of our business, apart from charges for purchase amortization, depreciation and other amortization, acquisition costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. We believe the disclosure of these non-GAAP measures can help investors meaningfully evaluate and compare our performance from quarter to quarter and from year to year. We also believe these non-GAAP measures are measures of our ongoing operating performance because the isolation of non-cash charges, such as amortization and depreciation, and other items, such as interest, income taxes, stock-based compensation expenses, acquisition costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs, restructuring costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business, provides additional information about our cost structure, and, over time, helps track our operating progress. In addition, investors, securities analysts and others have regularly relied on EBITDA and may rely on adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income or non-GAAP net income per diluted share to provide a financial measure by which to compare our operating performance against that of other companies in our industry. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the use of our acquired database technology, which is one of the sources of information for our database of commercial real estate information. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Purchase amortization in operating expenses may be useful for investors to consider because it represents the estimated attrition of our acquired customer base and the diminishing value of any acquired trade names. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. Depreciation and other amortization may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the wear and tear on our property and equipment used in our operations. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of net interest income we generate may be useful for investors to consider and may result in current cash inflows or outflows. However, we do not consider the amount of net interest income to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. 32 Income tax expense (benefit) may be useful for investors to consider because it generally represents the taxes which may be payable for the period and the change in deferred income taxes during the period and may reduce the amount of funds otherwise available for use in our business. However, we do not consider the amount of income tax expense (benefit) to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. Set forth below are descriptions of the financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate adjusted EBITDA and the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss): Purchase amortization in cost of revenues, purchase amortization in operating expenses, depreciation and other amortization, interest income, net, and income tax expense (benefit) as previously described above with respect to the calculation of EBITDA. Stock-based compensation expense may be useful for investors to consider because it represents a portion of the compensation of our employees and executives. Determining the fair value of the stock-based instruments involves a high degree of judgment and estimation and the expenses recorded may bear little resemblance to the actual value realized upon the future exercise or termination of the related stock-based awards. Therefore, we believe it is useful to exclude stock-based compensation in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. The amount of acquisition related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent professional service fees and direct expenses related to the acquisition. Because we do not acquire businesses on a predictable cycle we do not consider the amount of acquisition related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of restructuring costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent costs incurred in connection with a change in the makeup of our properties or personnel. We do not consider the amount of restructuring related costs to be a representative component of the day-to-day operating performance of our business. The amount of headquarters acquisition and transition related costs incurred may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent the overlapping rent and building carrying costs, legal costs and other related costs incurred to relocate our headquarters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing charges related to our operating cost structure. The amount of material settlement and impairment costs incurred outside of our ordinary course of business may be useful for investors to consider because they generally represent gains or losses from the settlement of litigation matters. We do not believe these charges necessarily reflect the current and ongoing cash charges related to our operating cost structure. The financial items that have been excluded from our net income (loss) to calculate non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per diluted share are stock-based compensation, acquisition related costs, restructuring costs, headquarters acquisition and transition related costs and settlement and impairment costs incurred outside our ordinary course of business. These items are discussed above with respect to the calculation of adjusted EBITDA along with the material limitations associated with using this non-GAAP financial measure as compared to net income (loss). We subtract an assumed provision for income taxes to calculate non-GAAP net income. We assume a 40% tax rate in order to approximate our long-term effective corporate tax rate. Non-GAAP net income per diluted share is a non-GAAP financial measure that represents non-GAAP net income divided by the number of diluted shares outstanding for the period used in the calculation of GAAP net income per diluted share. Management compensates for the above-described limitations of using non-GAAP measures by using a non-GAAP measure only to supplement our GAAP results and to provide additional information that is useful to understand the factors and trends affecting our business. 33 The following table shows our EBITDA reconciled to our net income and our net cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the indicated periods (in thousands): Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 2010 2011 2010 Net income $ 2,311 $ 3,382 $ 9,480 $ 9,522 Purchase amortization in cost of revenues 339 327 954 1,142 Purchase amortization in operating expenses 535 540 1,624 1,762 Depreciation and other amortization 2,129 2,440 7,065 7,357 Interest income, net (194 ) (156 ) (574 ) (590 ) Income tax expense, net 887 2,909 5,103 6,796 EBITDA $ 6,007 $ 9,442 $ 23,652 $ 25,989 Cash flows provided by (used in) Operating activities $ 4,423 $ 6,396 $ 19,707 $ 27,095 Investing activities (1,703 ) (1,465 ) 72,196 (39,890 ) Financing activities 433 2,018 252,367 2,540 Comparison of Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 and Three Months Ended September 30, 2010 Revenues. Revenues increased to $63.8 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $57.1 million in the third quarter of 2010. The $6.7 million increase was primarily attributable to further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional and FOCUS, currently generate more than 93% of our total revenues. Gross Margin. Gross margin increased to $42.7 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $36.4 million in the third quarter of 2010. The gross margin percentage increased to 66.8% in the third quarter of 2011 from 63.7% in the third quarter of 2010. The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was due primarily to an increase in revenue. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $17.5 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $13.0 million in the third quarter of 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 27.4% in the third quarter of 2011 from 22.8% in the third quarter of 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the marketing effort related to the launch of CoStarGo. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $5.0 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $4.2 million in the third quarter of 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 7.9% in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 7.4% in the third quarter of 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expenses was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support new development efforts. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $16.6 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $12.4 million in the third quarter of 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 26.1% in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 21.8% in the third quarter of 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the incurrence of approximately $5.8 million in acquisition related costs in connection with the pending LoopNet acquisition and approximately $1.5 million in lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office. These increases are partially offset by the deferred consideration adjustment of approximately $1.2 million in September 2011 related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Additionally, during the three months ended September 30, 2010, we incurred expenses that did not recur in 2011, including the lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our Boston, Massachusetts office of approximately $1.3 million in September 2010 as well as approximately $600,000 for other general and administrative costs. 34 Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization remained relatively consistent at approximately $500,000 in the third quarter of 2011 and 2010, and remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenues at 0.8% in the third quarter of 2011 compared to 0.9% in the third quarter of 2010. Interest and Other Income, net. Interest and other income, net remained relatively consistent at approximately $200,000 in the third quarter of 2011 and 2010. Income Tax Expense, net. Income tax expense, net decreased to approximately $900,000 in the third quarter of 2011 from $2.9 million in the third quarter of 2010. This decrease was primarily due to lower income before income taxes as a result of our decreased profitability. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Three Months Ended September 30, 2011 and Three Months Ended September 30, 2010 We manage our business geographically in two operating segments, with our primary areas of measurement and decision-making being the U.S. and International, which includes the U.K. and France. Management relies on an internal management reporting process that provides revenue and operating segment EBITDA, which is our net income before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. Management believes that operating segment EBITDA is an appropriate measure for evaluating the operational performance of our operating segments. EBITDA is used by management to internally measure our operating and management performance and to evaluate the performance of our business. However, this measure should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, income from operations or other measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Segment Revenues . CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, and CoStar COMPS Professional are generally sold as a suite of similar services and comprise our primary service offering in our U.S. operating segment. U.S. revenues increased to $59.2 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $52.6 million in the third quarter of 2010. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. International revenues increased slightly to $4.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2011 from $4.5 million for the three months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to foreign currency fluctuations. Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA decreased to $6.8 million in the third quarter of 2011 from $9.5 million in the third quarter of 2010. The decrease in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to approximately $5.8 million in acquisition related costs in the third quarter of 2011 as a result of the pending LoopNet acquisition as well as an increase in marketing costs of approximately $3.4 million related to the launch of CoStarGo, partially offset by an approximate $6.6 million increase in revenues in the third quarter of 2011 from the third quarter of 2010. International EBITDA decreased to a higher loss of approximately $800,000 in the third quarter of 2011 from a loss of approximately $100,000 in the third quarter of 2010. This higher loss was primarily due to increased personnel costs. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $100,000 for each of the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. Comparison of Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 Revenues. Revenues increased to $185.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $168.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The $17.5 million increase was primarily attributable to further penetration of our subscription-based information services and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. Our subscription-based information services, consisting primarily of CoStar Property Professional, CoStar Tenant, CoStar COMPS Professional and FOCUS, currently generate more than 93% of our total revenues. 35 Gross Margin. Gross margin increased to $119.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $105.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The gross margin percentage increased to 64.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from 62.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in the gross margin amount and percentage was due to an increase in revenue partially offset by an increase in cost of revenues. Cost of revenues increased to $66.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $62.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in the cost of revenues was principally due to an increase in research personnel costs. Selling and Marketing Expenses . Selling and marketing expenses increased to $45.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $38.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 24.2% for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to 22.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of selling and marketing expenses was primarily due to the marketing effort related to the launch of CoStarGo of approximately $3.4 million and an increase in sales personnel costs of approximately $3.4 million. Software Development Expenses . Software development expenses increased to $15.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $12.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 8.3% for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to 7.5% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of software development expenses was primarily due to increased personnel costs to support new development efforts. General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses increased to $43.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $37.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and increased as a percentage of revenues to 23.4% for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to 22.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The increase in the amount and percentage of general and administrative expenses was primarily due to the incurrence of approximately $11.1 million in acquisition related costs in connection with the pending LoopNet acquisition and approximately $1.5 million in lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our White Marsh, Maryland office. These increases are partially offset by the deferred consideration adjustment of approximately $1.2 million in September 2011 related to the October 19, 2009 acquisition of Resolve Technology. Additionally, during the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we incurred expenses that did not recur in 2011, including the $2.0 million accrual of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited in June 2010, approximately $800,000 accrued in anticipation of the settlement of the litigation in the United States District Court for the Southern District of California in June 2010, the lease restructuring charges related to the consolidation of our Boston, Massachusetts office of approximately $1.3 million in September 2010, as well as approximately $1.1 million for other legal costs associated with litigation. Purchase Amortization. Purchase amortization decreased to approximately $1.6 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to approximately $1.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and remained relatively consistent as a percentage of revenues at 0.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to 1.0% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease in purchase amortization expense was due to the completion of amortization of certain identifiable intangible assets in 2011. Interest and Other Income, net. Interest and other income, net remained relatively consistent at approximately $600,000 for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. Income Tax Expense, net. Income tax expense, net decreased to $5.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $6.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This decrease was due to lower income before income taxes as a result of our decreased profitability. Comparison of Business Segment Results for Nine Months Ended September 30, 2011 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 Segment Revenues . U.S. revenues increased to $171.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $154.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This increase in U.S. revenue was primarily due to further penetration of our subscription-based information services, and successful cross-selling of our services to our customers in existing markets, combined with continued high renewal rates. FOCUS is our primary service offering in our International operating segment. International revenues increased to $13.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 from $13.3 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to foreign currency fluctuations. 36 Segment EBITDA. U.S. EBITDA decreased to $26.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from $29.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease in U.S. EBITDA was due primarily to approximately $11.1 million in acquisition related costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as a result of the pending LoopNet acquisition as well as to increased personnel costs of approximately $8.7 million, partially offset by an approximate $17.0 million increase in revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 from the nine months ended September 30, 2010. International EBITDA increased to a lower loss of approximately $2.8 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, from a loss of approximately $3.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This lower loss was primarily due to the $2.0 million settlement of our litigation with Nokia U.K. Limited in July 2010 that did not recur in 2011, partially offset by increased personnel costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. International EBITDA includes a corporate allocation of approximately $200,000 and $400,000 for each of the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The corporate allocation represents costs incurred for U.S. employees involved in international management and expansion activities. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments increased to $554.3 million at September 30, 2011 from $210.1 million at December 31, 2010. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was primarily due to $247.9 million in net proceeds from our equity offering in June 2011 of 4,312,500 shares of common stock for $60.00 per share. In addition, in February 2011, we sold the 169,429 square-foot office building located at 1331 L Street, NW, in downtown Washington, DC for $101.0 million in cash, $15.0 million of which was designated to fund additional build-out and planned improvements at the building. Changes in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are dependent upon changes in, among other things, working capital items such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, various accrued expenses and deferred revenues, as well as changes in our capital structure due to stock option exercises, purchases and sales of short-term investments and similar events. Net cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 was $19.7 million compared to $27.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This $7.4 million decrease was primarily due to approximately $4.2 million net decrease in changes in operating assets and liabilities due to differences in timing of collection of receipts and payments of disbursements. In addition, the decrease was also attributed to a decrease of approximately $3.2 million in net income plus non-cash items. The $4.2 million net decrease in changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily related to approximately $4.7 million in decreased collections due to differences in timing of collection of receipts, of which a majority was collected in October 2011, partially offset by an increase in changes in prepaid expense and other assets of approximately $900,000. Net cash provided by investing activities was $72.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $39.9 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This $112.1 million increase in net cash provided by investing activities was primarily due to the sale of our new headquarters in downtown Washington, DC, in February 2011 as well as the February 2010 purchase of that building. Net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $252.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, compared to approximately $2.5 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. This $249.9 million increase in net cash provided by financing activities was primarily due to the equity offering of 4,312,500 shares of common stock for $60.00 per share completed in June 2011. Net proceeds from the equity offering were approximately $247.9 million, after deducting approximately $10.4 million of underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses of approximately $500,000. During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, we incurred capital expenditures of approximately $12.2 million. We expect to make total capital expenditures in 2011 of approximately $14.0 million to $16.0 million. 37 Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our operating results, expansion efforts, and our level of acquisition activity or other strategic transactions. We supported the launch of CoStarGo with an extensive marketing campaign during the third quarter of 2011, including a 34-city national launch tour to drive early adoption of the service. We incurred expenses of approximately $3.4 million during the third quarter of 2011 in connection with the launch of CoStarGo. To date, we have grown in part by acquiring other companies and we may continue to make acquisitions. Our acquisitions may vary in size and could be material to our current operations. We may use cash, stock, debt or other means of funding to make these acquisitions. On October 25, 2011, we acquired Virtual Premise, a SaaS provider of real estate information management solutions located in Atlanta, Georgia. Pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement, we paid approximately $17.2 million in cash, approximately 80% of which was paid on the closing date and the remaining 20% of which will be paid 270 days after the closing date, subject to any post-closing net working capital adjustments or indemnification claims made prior to such date. On April 27, 2011, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire LoopNet. Pursuant to the merger agreement, LoopNet stockholders will receive $16.50 in cash and 0.03702 shares of CoStar common stock for each share of LoopNet common stock, representing a total equity value of approximately $860.0 million and an enterprise value of $762.0 million. We have received a commitment letter from J.P. Morgan Bank for a fully committed term loan of $415.0 million and a $50.0 million revolving credit facility, of which $37.5 million are committed, which will be available, subject to customary conditions, to fund the acquisition and the ongoing working capital needs following the transaction. In June 2011, we also completed an equity offering and received net proceeds of approximately $247.9 million. We intend to use these proceeds to fund a portion of the cash consideration payable in connection with the acquisition of LoopNet. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including antitrust clearance. We have incurred approximately $11.1 million in acquisition related costs for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 as a result of the pending LoopNet acquisition, of which we have paid approximately $4.8 million and expect to pay the remaining balance in the fourth quarter of 2011 and into 2012. We expect to incur approximately $5.0 million to $6.0 million in additional acquisition related costs. The holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of LoopNets common stock and Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class on an as-converted basis, approved the adoption of the merger agreement on July 11, 2011. The transaction is not subject to a financing condition. In certain circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, LoopNet may be obligated to pay us a termination fee of $25.8 million. Similarly, in certain circumstances set forth in the merger agreement, if the merger is not consummated or the agreement is terminated, we may be obligated to pay LoopNet a termination fee of $51.6 million. We are not in a position yet to estimate the financial impact the proposed merger will have on our operations. We engaged J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (J.P. Morgan) to act as our financial advisor in connection with the acquisition. We are obligated to pay $4.0 million to J.P. Morgan if the acquisition closes. We are hopeful that the merger may close by the end of 2011; however, the current timing is such that it is quite possible that the merger may not close by such time. Concurrent with the sale of the 169,429 square-foot office building located at 1331 L Street, NW, in downtown Washington, DC, we entered into a lease with GLL L-Street 1331, LLC (GLL) to lease back 149,514 square feet of the office space located in the building for use as our corporate headquarters. The lease will expire May 31, 2025 (subject to two 5-year renewal options). The initial base rent is $38.50 per square foot of occupied space, escalating 2.5% per year commencing June 1, 2011. Minimum lease payments will be approximately $4.8 million, $6.0 million, $6.1 million, $6.3 million and $6.4 million for fiscal years 2011 through 2015, respectively, and a total of $69.2 million from 2016 to the end of the lease term. 38 Based on current plans, we believe that our available cash combined with positive cash flow provided by operating activities should be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. As of September 30, 2011, we had $31.4 million par value of long-term investments in student loan ARS, which failed to settle at auctions. The majority of these investments are of high credit quality with AAA credit ratings and are primarily securities supported by guarantees from the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP) of the U.S. Department of Education. While we continue to earn interest on these investments, the investments are not liquid in the short-term. In the event we need to immediately access these funds, we may have to sell these securities at an amount below par value. Based on our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and other short-term investments and our expected operating cash flows, we do not anticipate having to sell these investments below par value in order to operate our business in the foreseeable future. Recent Accounting Pronouncements There have been no developments to the Recent Accounting Pronouncements discussion included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our consolidated financial statements, except for the following: In May 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to develop common requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). This guidance clarifies the intent of the existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and modifies principles and requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurement. This guidance is effective on a prospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance is not expected to materially impact our results of operations or financial position, but will require changes to the disclosures in our interim and annual financial statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to improve the comparability, consistency and transparency of financial reporting and to increase the prominence of items reported in other comprehensive income. This guidance requires changes in stockholders equity to be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. Under the two-statement approach, the first statement should present total net income and its components followed consecutively by a second statement that should present total other comprehensive income, the components of other comprehensive income and the total of comprehensive income. This guidance is effective on a retrospective basis for financial statements issued for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. This guidance is not expected to materially impact our results of operations or financial position, but will require changes to the consolidated statement of stockholders equity and the addition of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. In September 2011, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify how companies test goodwill for impairment. The guidance permits a company to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. This guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011, with early adoption permitted. This guidance is not expected to materially impact our results of operations or financial position. Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements We have made forward-looking statements in this Report and make forward-looking statements in our press releases and conference calls that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements include information that is not purely historic fact and include, without limitation, statements concerning our financial outlook for 2011 and beyond, our possible or assumed future results of operations generally, and other statements and information regarding assumptions about our revenues, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP net income per share, fully diluted net income, combined financial metrics related to the LoopNet acquisition, the timing of the LoopNet acquisition, taxable income, cash flow from operating activities, available cash, operating costs, amortization expense, intangible asset recovery, net income per share, diluted net income per share, weighted-average outstanding shares, capital and other expenditures, effective tax rate, equity compensation charges, future taxable income, purchase amortization, financing plans, geographic expansion, product development, acquisitions, contract renewal rate, capital structure, contractual obligations, legal proceedings and claims, our database, database growth, services and facilities, employee relations, future economic performance, our ability to liquidate or realize our long-term investments, managements plans, goals and objectives for future operations, and growth and markets for our stock. Sections of this Report which contain forward-looking statements include the Financial Statements and related Notes, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,