Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsOverviewDevelopment, Investments and Expansion" and Notes 11 and 15 to the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Overview The market for real estate information and analysis is vast based on the variety, volume and value of transactions related to real estate. Each transaction has multiple participants and multiple information requirements, and in order to facilitate transactions, industry participants must have extensive, accurate and current information and analysis. Members of the real estate and related business community require daily access to current data such as space availability, properties for-sale, rental units available, rental rates, vacancy rates, tenant movements, sales comparables, supply, new construction, absorption rates and other important market developments to carry out their businesses effectively. Market research (including historical and forecast conditions) and applied analytics are instrumental to the success of industry participants. There is a strong need for an efficient marketplace, where real estate professionals can exchange information, evaluate opportunities using standardized data and interpretive analyses, and interact with each other on a continuous basis. A large number of parties involved in commercial and residential real estate and the related business community make use of the services we provide in order to obtain information they need to conduct their businesses, including: Sales and leasing brokers Government agencies Property owners Mortgage-backed security issuers Property managers Appraisers Design and construction professionals Pension fund managers Real estate developers Reporters Real estate investment trust managers Tenant vendors Investment and commercial bankers Building services vendors Mortgage bankers Communications providers Mortgage brokers Insurance companies managers Retailers Institutional advisors Hospitality owners Investors and asset managers Real estate agents The commercial real estate and related business community historically operated in an inefficient marketplace because of the fragmented approach to gathering and exchanging information within the marketplace. Various organizations, including hundreds of brokerage firms, directory publishers and local research companies, collected data on specific markets and developed software to analyze the information they independently gathered. This highly fragmented methodology resulted in duplication of efforts in the collection and analysis of information, excessive internal cost and the creation of non-standardized data containing varying degrees of accuracy and comprehensiveness, resulting in a formidable information gap. 8 The creation and maintenance of a standardized information platform for commercial real estate requires infrastructure including a standardized database, accurate and comprehensive research capabilities, experienced analysts, easy to use technology and intensive participant interaction. By combining our extensive database, researchers, our experienced team of analysts and economists, technological expertise and broad customer base, we believe that we have created such a platform. The apartment rental advertising industry serves property managers and owners who are tasked with finding renters to occupy vacant apartments, as well as renters who are searching for their next home. Property managers have several options at their disposal, including their own websites, drive-by and outdoor advertising, traditional classified ads, free online listing services, search engine marketing and Internet listings services (ILS), like Apartments.com and the network of apartment listing websites we own and operate. Many apartment ILS websites feature only the rental availabilities that larger property owners pay to advertise, resulting in a poor user experience in which the renters search criteria return either limited or no results, irrelevant results or stale results that do not represent actual availabilities. We believe that consumers expect accurate, actionable and comprehensive apartment rental information. Our apartment ILS websites include renter-focused features like the ability to filter search results according to various criteria (e.g., commute time to work); professional images of the properties, including immersive videos and 3-D interactive models; custom neighborhood profiles; and tenant reviews. Our network of apartment listing websites draws on our multifamily database and includes researched and verified information. We proactively gather information on available rentals to improve the accuracy of the listings on our apartment ILS websites, including real time unit-level availability, current pricing, and rent specials. We have continually invested in our network to improve the features and services offered to property managers and website users. Recent additions include: dynamic lead forms that provide more information about prospective residents, a reporting suite that provides customers with rent comparables, making rent trends information publicly available and free digital ad retargeting, and integrated online rental solutions, including lease applications, and tenant credit and background checks. We believe that we have created and maintain easily searchable apartment ILS websites with a comprehensive selection of rentals, information on actual rental availabilities and rents, and in-depth data on neighborhoods, as well as easy to use and actionable tools for the rental process. CoStars Comprehensive Database CoStar has spent more than 30 years building and acquiring databases of commercial real estate information, which includes information on leasing, sales, comparable sales, tenants, and demand statistics, as well as digital images. This highly complex database is comprised of hundreds of data fields, tracking such categories as location, site and zoning information, building characteristics, space and unit availability, tax assessments, ownership, sales and lease comparables, space requirements, number of retail stores, number of listings, mortgage and deed information, for-sale and for-lease listings, income and expense histories, tenant names, lease expirations, contact information, historical trends, demographic information and retail sales per square foot. The database also includes building photographs, aerial photographs, 3D virtual tours, plat maps and floor plans. CoStar Research Research Department. Our research professionals undergo an extensive training program so that we can maintain consistent research methods and processes throughout our research department. Our researchers collect and analyze commercial real estate information through phone calls, e-mails and Internet updates, in addition to field inspections, public records review, news monitoring and third-party data feeds. We have also set up direct feeds from larger apartment sites and have put in place an automated system that compiles information sourced from the Internet in order to provide the most up-to-date information on rental availabilities. Our researchers are responsible for maintaining the accuracy and reliability of our database information, training our clients to use the CoStar products and handling their customer service questions, creating a "one touch" approach to customer care. As part of the process, researchers use to update records in our database, researchers develop cooperative relationships with industry professionals that allow them to gather useful information. Because of the importance commercial real estate professionals place on our data and our prominent position in the industry, many of these professionals routinely take the initiative and proactively report available space and transactions through our online tool, which we refer to as our Marketing Center, or directly to our researchers. CoStar's field research effort includes physical inspection of properties in order to research new availabilities, find additional property inventory, new construction, collect tenant information, verify existing information, photograph properties and create high quality videos of interior spaces (including walk-through videos and 3D virtual tours), amenities and exterior 9 features of properties. CoStar utilizes high-tech, field research vehicles primarily within North America and Europe. A significant majority of these vehicles are customized, energy efficient hybrid cars that are equipped with computers, Global Positioning System tracking software, high resolution digital cameras and handheld laser instruments to precisely measure buildings and geo-code and position them on digital maps. Each CoStar vehicle uses wireless technology to track and transmit field data. A typical site inspection consists of photographing the building, measuring the building, geo-coding the building, capturing for-sale or for-lease sign information, counting parking spaces, assessing property condition and construction, and gathering tenant information. Field researchers also canvass properties, collecting tenant data suite-by-suite. CoStar also utilizes a low-flying airplane and a fleet of drones to conduct aerial research of commercial real estate. We place researchers on the low-flying aircraft to scout additional commercial developments and take aerial photographs and videos. Our U.S. drone operators are Federal Aviation Administration certified and trained to capture aerial photographs and videos of commercial real estate. Our drone operators in the U.K. and Canada are certified and trained to Civil Aviation Authority standards with a permission for commercial operations pending. Data and Image Providers. We license a small portion of our data and images from public record providers and third-party data sources. Licensing agreements with these entities allow us to use a variety of commercial real estate information, including property ownership, tenant information, demographic information, maps, aerial photographs and 3D virtual apartment tours of apartment communities, all of which enhance various CoStar services. These license agreements generally grant us a non-exclusive license to use the data and images in the creation and supplementation of our information, analytics and online marketplaces. Management and Quality Control Systems. Our research processes include automated and non-automated controls to ensure the integrity of the data collection process. A large number of automated data quality tests check for potential errors, including occupancy date conflicts, available square footage greater than building area, typical floor space greater than land area and expired leases. We also monitor changes to critical fields of information to ensure all information is kept in compliance with our standard definitions and methodology. Our non-automated quality control procedures include: Calling our information sources on recently updated properties to re-verify information; Performing periodic research audits and field checks to determine if we correctly canvassed buildings; Providing training and retraining to our research professionals to ensure accurate and standardized data compilation; and Compiling measurable performance metrics for research teams and managers for feedback on data quality. Finally, one of the most important and effective quality control measures we rely on is feedback provided by the commercial real estate professionals using our data every day. Proprietary Technology CoStars information technology professionals focus on developing new services and features for our customers, improving and maintaining existing services, integrating our current services, securing our comprehensive database of commercial real estate information and delivering research automation tools that improve the quality of our data and increase the efficiency of our research analysts. Our information technology team is responsible for developing, improving and maintaining CoStar's information, analytics and online marketplace services. Our information technology team is also responsible for developing the infrastructure necessary to support CoStars business processes, our comprehensive database of commercial real estate information, analytics and online marketplaces and our extensive image library. The team implements technologies and systems that introduce efficient workflows and controls designed to increase the production capacity of our research teams and improve the quality of our data. Over the years, the team has developed data collection and quality control mechanisms that we believe are unique within the commercial real estate industry. The team continues to develop and modify our enterprise information management system that integrates CoStar's sales, research, field research, customer support and accounting information. We use this system to maintain our commercial real estate research information, manage contacts with the commercial real estate community, provide research workflow automation and conduct daily automated quality assurance checks. In addition, our information technology team has also developed fraud-detection technology to detect and prevent unauthorized access to our services. To supplement the measures we take to prevent misuse of our information, we added state of the art adaptive authentication technology to the login process of our CoStar Suite product. Our information technology professionals maintain the servers and network components necessary to support CoStar services and research systems. CoStar's core services are served from multiple data centers to support uninterrupted service for our customers. CoStars services are continually monitored in an effort to ensure our customers fast and reliable access. 10 CoStar's comprehensive data protection policy provides for use of secure networks, strong passwords and dual factor authentication systems, encrypted data fields, end to end encryption, endpoint detection and response systems and services, security information and event management systems, off-site storage, cloud services, end user and developer security training, multilayered anti-phishing malware and spam protections and other protective measures in an effort to ensure the availability and security of all core systems. Services Our suite of information, analytics and online marketplaces is branded and marketed to our customers. Our services are primarily derived from a database of building-specific information and offer customers specialized tools for accessing, analyzing and using our information. Over time, we have enhanced and expanded, and expect to continue to enhance and expand, our existing information, analytics and online marketplace services and we have developed and expect to continue to develop additional services that make use of our comprehensive database to meet the needs of our existing customers as well as potential new categories of customers. Our principal information, analytics and online marketplace services are described in the following paragraphs: Information and Analytics CoStar Suite CoStar Suite is our integrated suite of online commercial real estate service offerings, which includes information about space available for-lease, information about properties for-sale, comparable sales information, tenant information, market analytics including leasing, sales and construction trends, information about industry professionals and their business relationships and industry news. CoStar Suite includes the following products and services, which are delivered through desktop, mobile and other Internet-connected devices to our subscribers primarily in our North American and European markets. CoStar Property provides a comprehensive inventory of office, industrial, retail, multifamily and student housing properties and land. We also provide for-lease and for-sale listings, historical data, property analytics, building photographs, demographics, maps and floor plans. Commercial real estate professionals use CoStar Property to identify available space for-lease, evaluate leasing and sale opportunities, value assets and position properties in the marketplace. Our clients also use CoStar Property to analyze market conditions by calculating current vacancy rates, absorption rates or average rental rates, and forecasting future trends based on user selected variables. CoStar Property provides subscribers with powerful map-based search & reporting capabilities. CoStar COMPS is the industrys most comprehensive database of comparable commercial real estate sales transactions and is designed for professionals who need to research property comparables, identify market trends, expedite the appraisal process and support property valuations. CoStar COMPS offers subscribers numerous fields of property information, access to support documents (e.g., deeds of trust) for new comparables, demographics and the ability to view for-sale properties alongside sold properties plotted on a map or aerial image or in a table format. CoStar Market Analytics provides owners, investors, brokers property managers, lenders, appraisers and other commercial real estate professionals the ability to view and report on aggregated market and submarket trends, including leasing, vacancy, rental rates, construction, investment sales activity and overall economic conditions that affect commercial real estate markets. CoStar Market Analytics covers all major real estate sectors including office, industrial, retail, multifamily and student housing, and provides quantitatively driven and economist curated forecasts of supply, demand, vacancy, and rent at the submarket level, and job growth and asset pricing at the market level. CoStar Tenant is a detailed online business-to-business prospecting and analytical tool providing commercial real estate professionals with the most comprehensive commercial real estate-related tenant information available in our North American markets. CoStar Tenant profiles tenants occupying space in commercial buildings and provides updates on lease expirations - one of the services key features - as well as occupancy levels, growth rates and numerous other facts. Delivering this information via the Internet allows users to target prospective clients quickly through a searchable database that identifies only those tenants meeting certain criteria. CoStar Lease Comps provides subscribers comprehensive data regarding CoStar researched lease transactions and a software tool to capture, manage and maintain their own user-entered lease data. In addition, CoStar Lease Comps 11 provides subscribers the ability to analyze this combined lease dataset from an aggregate analytic perspective and generate various reports. CoStar Lease Analysis is a workflow tool that allows subscribers to incorporate CoStar data with their own data to perform in-depth lease analyses and share those analyses with other subscribers or non-subscribers. CoStar Lease Analysis can be used to produce an understandable cash flow analysis as well as key metrics about any proposed or existing lease. It combines financial modeling with CoStars comprehensive property information, enabling the subscriber to compare lease alternatives, either from a landlord or tenant perspective. CoStar Public Record is CoStars newest commercial real estate servicing offering. It provides access to a searchable database of nearly 38 million commercially-zoned parcels in the U.S. Users can search for property attributes, sale transaction, loan, lien and tax assessments information. Information in this module is sourced from numerous counties and jurisdictions that provide this data for ownership, title and property tax assessment purposes. Information Services CoStar Real Estate Manager is a real estate and asset management and lease accounting software solution designed for corporate real estate managers, company executives, financial accounting directors, business unit directors, brokers and project managers. CoStar Real Estate Manager helps users connect real estate initiatives with company strategic goals, streamline portfolio operations, automate the process for collecting and managing space requests, reduce occupancy costs with analytics that track location performance against targets and maximize location performance through proactive portfolio management. Additionally, the software is used to help companies manage their lease accounting and reporting requirements. CoStar Risk Analytics is a trusted partner to many of the largest commercial real estate lenders and commercial mortgage-based securities (CMBS) market participants, providing timely data, advanced analytics, time proven models and extensive experience to support regulatory examinations, risk management and strategic decision making. The CoStar Risk Analytics COMPASS credit default model has been used by commercial real estate lenders, CMBS participants and regulators for over 15 years to estimate required loss reserves, stress test portfolios, generate risk ratings, calculate capital adequacy, underwrite loans, target lending opportunities and price CMBS bonds. Our clients rely on CoStar Risk Analytics for model validations and reporting to support regulatory examinations. Additionally, CoStar Risk Analytics solutions connect client loan and CMBS loan portfolios to CoStars industry leading commercial real estate data, research, analytics and the COMPASS credit model, updated daily, for more informed decision making, portfolio strategy and surveillance. Clients of CoStar Risk Analytics solutions include many of the largest banks, life insurance companies, asset managers, hedge funds, government agencies and regulators. STAR Report is STRs data analytics report. It provides hospitality benchmarking, measuring a hotels performance against a self-selected aggregated competitive set. STR's confidential data reports enable customers to understand their market position based on trends and indices. Reports are provided on a monthly, weekly or daily basis and provide insights about key metrics such as occupancy, average daily rate (ADR) and revenue per available room (RevPAR). STAR Reports are only available to industry participants who provide data to STR -- typically hotel brands, third party management companies and owners. STR also offers ad hoc reports with a customizable data set providing aggregated hotel performance data for a bespoke set of hotels or standardized industry segments (e.g. market or submarket). Online Marketplaces Multifamily Apartments.com TM , the flagship brand of our network of apartment marketing sites, provides a variety of ad packages and enhancements that allow property managers and owners to fully showcase their apartment community through increased exposure and interactions that allow renters to view, engage and connect with the community. Apartments.com also provides tools to facilitate the rental process, including online applications, background and credit checks and rental payment processing. The Apartments.com network consists of numerous other apartment marketing sites, including: ApartmentFinder provides lead generation, advertising and Internet marketing solutions to property managers and owners through its main site, ApartmentFinder.com. ForRent.com provides digital advertising through a network of four multifamily websites - which includes ForRent.com, AFTER55.com, CorporateHousing.com and ForRentUniversity.com. 12 ApartmentHomeLiving.com TM provides renters with another national online apartment rental resource that showcases apartments for rent with official prices, pictures, floor plans and detailed information on each apartment. Apartamentos.com TM provides Spanish speaking renters with an online apartment rentals resource offered exclusively in Spanish, with the same primary features found on Apartments.com. Westside Rentals specializes in Southern California real estate rentals. Off Campus Partners provides student housing marketplace content and technology to U.S. universities, simplifying the off-campus housing search process for universities, property managers, and students. Commercial Property and Land LoopNet Premium Lister is designed for commercial real estate professionals and other customers who seek the broadest possible exposure for their listings, access to leads lists, and advanced marketing and searching tools. LoopNet Premium Lister provides subscribers with the ability to market their listings to all LoopNet.com visitors, as well as numerous other features. LoopNet Premium Lister is available for a quarterly or annual subscription. LoopNet Diamond, Platinum and Gold Ads are designed for commercial real estate professionals and other customers who seek the broadest possible exposure for their listings, access to leads lists, and advanced marketing and searching tools. These LoopNet Ads provide subscribers with full access to three of the industrys top commercial real estate marketplaces, LoopNet, Cityfeet and Showcase.com, as well as online newspaper websites including the Wall Street Journal. LoopNet Ads are available for a six-month or annual subscription. Ten-X operates an online auction platform for commercial real estate. We are working on integrating the Ten-X platform into both LoopNet and CoStar services, to expand the audience for Ten-X auctions to include our online commercial real estate users. LandsofAmerica TM , LandAndFarm TM and LandWatch LandsofAmerica.com, LandAndFarm.com, and LandWatch.com are leading online marketplaces for rural land for-sale. Sellers pay a fee to list their land for-sale, and interested buyers can search the respective sites' listings for free. The LandsofAmerica.com, LandAndFarm.com and LandWatch.com websites are also accessible via our Land.com domain. BizBuySell, BizQuest and FindaFranchise BizBuySell.com, BizQuest.com and FindaFranchise.com are leading online marketplaces for operating businesses and franchises for-sale. Business sellers pay a fee to list their operating businesses for-sale, and interested buyers can search the respective sites' listings for free. The BizBuySell, BizQuest and FindaFranchise Franchise Directories allow interested business buyers to search hundreds of franchise opportunities, and franchisors can list their availabilities in the directory on a cost per lead basis. HomeSnap is an industry-leading online and mobile software platform that provides user-friendly applications to optimize residential real estate agent workflow and reinforce the agent-client relationship. Clients We draw clients from across the real estate and related business community, including real estate brokers, agents, owners, developers, landlords, property managers, financial institutions, retailers, vendors, appraisers, investment banks, government agencies and other parties involved in real estate. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, no single client accounted for more than 5% of our revenues. Sales and Marketing Our overall sales strategy is to provide optimal service to our existing customers, attract new clients and cross-sell the numerous solutions we have to offer. Our sales teams sell multiple products and are primarily located in field sales offices throughout the U.S., with others in Canada, the U.K., Spain, France, and Germany. Our inside sales teams are largely based in Washington, DC and Richmond, Virginia. Our inside sales professionals actively work lead lists, prospect for new customers and perform virtual product demonstrations. Our professionals utilize the Internet and remote presentation tools to convey the multiple solutions we offer. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, our entire sales force has been equipped to operate remotely. 13 Our local offices typically support field sales and field research operations within the markets in which they operate. This enables our clients to benefit from a local presence. Our field sales force has the primary front-line responsibility for customer service, ensuring client satisfaction and building long-term relationships. Our local offices act as hubs for training, sources of market insight, product feedback sessions and connecting industry participants. We actively manage all client accounts with frequent meetings, trainings, and updates on new enhancements. In 2020, we successfully implemented a number of important sales initiatives, focused on selling our products to brokers, property owners and lenders in the U.S. This focus will continue in 2021. Our initiatives to partner with brokers to provide value to property owners allowed us to successfully position LoopNet Ads as a valuable marketing solution for a property owners major risk, namely, the cost of vacant space and the resulting negative impact on valuation of the property or portfolio, a risk that has been significantly magnified as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we worked closely with clients to help them navigate the unprecedented challenges brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic through relevant training initiatives and curated webinars. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we began establishing a dedicated LoopNet sales division. Both our field sales and LoopNet sales teams will continue to sell LoopNet solutions. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for the Apartments.com network of rental websites, we utilize a multi-channel marketing campaign featuring television and radio ads, online and digital advertising impressions, streaming audio and podcasts, social media, email, public relations and news articles, out-of-home and paid search marketing, all of which are reinforced with substantial Search Engine Optimization efforts. We plan to continue to utilize these marketing methods to generate brand awareness and site traffic for the Apartments.com network and implement similar marketing strategies for LoopNet and Ten-X. We will continue to work to determine the optimal level of marketing investment for each of these services for future periods. Our CoStar U.K. sales force continued to grow our existing client base, and trained users on the numerous product enhancements we released during 2019 and 2020. In Canada, our sales representatives were focused on targeting brokers, owners and lender prospects for subscribing to our suite of products. We seek to make our services essential to our clients businesses. To encourage clients to use our services regularly, we generally charge a fixed monthly amount for our subscription-based information services rather than fees based on actual system usage. Contract rates for subscription-based services are generally based on the number of sites, number of users, organization size, the clients business focus, geography and the range of services subscribed for. Our marketing solutions are priced by exposure levels, the number of properties/spaces for-lease, rent or sale and the market in which they are offered. Listings for customers who purchase packages with the highest level of exposure usually appear first in search results and offer the richest media content and engagement opportunities for tenants searching for space, renters looking for an apartment or investors seeking an opportunity. Our subscription clients generally pay contract fees on a monthly basis, but in some cases may pay us on a quarterly or annual basis. In 2020, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, our primary marketing methods included: virtual service demonstrations; targeted paid digital marketing; retargeting and social marketing; direct marketing such as email; communication via our corporate website and news services; participation in virtual trade shows and industry events; virtual Company-sponsored events; client referrals; content marketing including webinars, seminars, and white papers and other company newsletters distributed via email to our clients and prospects. To generate brand awareness and site traffic for the Apartments.com network of rental websites, we utilize a multi-channel marketing campaign featuring television and radio ads, online and digital advertising impressions, streaming audio and podcasts, social media, email, public relations and news articles, out-of-home and paid search marketing, all of which are reinforced with substantial Search Engine Optimization efforts. We plan to continue to utilize these marketing methods to generate brand awareness and site traffic, and will continue to work to determine the optimal level of marketing investment for our services for future periods. Comprehensive digital marketing and direct marketing are effective means for us to find prospective clients. Our digital marketing efforts include Search Engine Optimization, paid advertising with major search engines, social media and display advertising on commercial real estate news and business websites and mobile applications, and our direct marketing efforts include television, radio, out-of-home ads, direct mail and email and, when applicable, make extensive use of our unique, proprietary database. Once we have identified a prospective client, our most effective sales method is a service demonstration. We use various forms of integrated marketing and advertising to build brand awareness, brand identity and reinforce the value and benefits of our services. We also sponsor and attend local virtual association activities and events, including industry-leading events for commercial real estate brokers, property owners, investors and retail and financial services institutions, and attend or exhibit at virtual industry trade shows and conferences to reinforce our relationships with our core user groups. 14 News has always been a valuable part of CoStar's core subscription offering. CoStar's award-winning news teams report on the latest deals and developments across our markets, keeping subscribers informed and driving higher usage in our core product. In 2020, we enhanced our offerings, including producing a series of special reports on the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the commercial real estate industry and working with our analyst team, added weekly video updates and periodic webinars to discuss key changes to national and local markets. We merged STR's Hotel News Now news service into CoStar News, giving CoStar subscribers direct access to STR's hospitality news and analysis, while expanding the real estate audience for STR. Similarly, following CoStar's acquisition of Ten-X, we launched news coverage of commercial real estate auctions, telling the stories of prominent properties up for bid, including those featured on Ten-X. We continued to build our newsletter franchise, adding one focused on the hospitality industry and another highlighting the best of our analyst reports. We created new features for our newsletters showcasing the best of CoStar's architectural photography and data graphics. Finally, the news team, working with CoStar's research group, now produces quarterly Power Broker stories recognizing the top deals in each of our U.S., U.K. and Canadian markets, increasing broker exposure in the marketplace. Competition The market for information, analytics and online marketplaces generally is competitive and extremely dynamic. In the commercial real estate and apartment rentals industries, we believe the principal competitive factors affecting these services and providers are: Quality and depth of the underlying databases; Quality and quantity of leads and leases delivered; Ease of use, flexibility and functionality of the software; Intuitiveness and appeal of the user interface; Timeliness of the data, including listings; Breadth of geographic coverage and services offered; Completeness and accuracy of content; Client service and support; Perception that the service offered is the industry standard; Price; Effectiveness of marketing and sales efforts; Proprietary nature of methodologies, databases and technical resources; Vendor reputation; Brand loyalty among customers; and Capital resources. We compete directly and indirectly for customers with the following categories of companies: Online marketing services, websites or data exchanges targeted to commercial real estate brokers, buyers and sellers of commercial real estate properties, insurance companies, mortgage brokers and lenders, such as Reed Business Information Limited and its Estates Gazette and Radius Data Exchange products, SquareFoot, officespace.com, Brevitas, Catylist (now a part of Moody's), 42Floors, Altus Group (Commercial Property Search), Digsy, Quantum Listing, RealNex MarketPlace, TenantWise, Rofo, BuildingSearch.com, CIMLS, CompStak, Rightmove, Yardi (PropertyShark and CommercialCafe), CREXi, TotalCommercial.com, DebtX, Real Capital Markets, and VTS; Publishers and distributors of information, analytics and marketing services, including regional providers and national print publications, such as CBRE Economic Advisors, Marshall & Swift, REIS Network (part of the Moody's Analytics Accelerator), Real Capital Analytics, Real Capital Markets, Reonomy, Yardi Matrix, RealPage and its Axiometrics business, Altus Insight and Altus RealNet (Canada); Search engine and Internet listing services featuring apartments for rent, such as Google, Bing, Facebook Marketplace, ApartmentGuide.com, Rent.com, Rentals.com, Zillow Rentals, Trulia Rentals, StreetEasy, NakedApartments.com, HotPads.com, MyNewPlace.com, Zumper, PadMapper, Craigslist, ApartmentList.com, Move.com, Realtor.com, Adobo, RadPad, RentJungle, RentCafe.com, RentHop, RentBerry, and ApartmentRatings; Hospitality benchmarking and analytics services, such as Lodging Econometrics, Kalibri Labs, Travelclick, HotStats and Shigi Group (SnapShot); Online and mobile software application providers in the residential real estate industry, including Zillow, Redfin and Realtor.com, as well as agent marketing platforms and workflow providers; 15 Locally controlled real estate boards, exchanges or associations sponsoring property listing services and the companies with whom they partner, such as Catylist, the National Association of Realtors, CCIM Institute, Society of Industrial and Office Realtors, the Commercial Association of Realtors Data Services and AIR CRE; Real estate portfolio management software solutions, such as Cougar Software, MRI Software, Altus, RealPage, AppFolio and SiteCompli; Real estate lease management and administration software solutions, such as Accruent, Tririga, Manhattan Software, Tango Analytics, Lease Accelerator, Visual Lease, Sequnetra, Lease Harbor and AMT Direct; In-house research departments operated by commercial real estate brokers; and Public record providers. As the market for information, analytics and online marketplaces develops, additional competitors (including companies which could have greater access to data, financial, product development, technical, analytic or marketing resources than we do) may enter the market and competition may intensify. For example, a company like Bloomberg L.P. has the resources, and has previously announced an intention, to move into the commercial real estate information business. Further, a company like Google, which has a far-reaching web presence and substantial data aggregation capabilities, could enter the commercial real estate marketing arena. A company like Zillow, which already has a presence in residential real estate and the apartment rentals industry, could use its resources to further expand in the online apartment rentals industry creating greater competition among Internet listing services for the marketing budgets of property managers and property owners. While we believe that we have successfully differentiated ourselves from existing competitors, current or future competitors could materially harm our business. Proprietary Rights To protect our proprietary rights in our methodologies, database, software, trademarks and other intellectual property, we depend upon a combination of: Trade secret, misappropriation, unfair competition, copyright, trademark, computer fraud, database protection and other laws; Registration of copyrights and trademarks; Nondisclosure, noncompetition and other contractual provisions with employees and consultants; License agreements with customers; Patent protection; and Technical measures. 16 We seek to protect our softwares source code, our database and our photography as trade secrets and under copyright law. Although copyright registration is not a prerequisite for copyright protection, we have filed for copyright registration for many of our databases, photographs, software and other materials. Under current U.S. copyright law, the arrangement and selection of data may be protected, but the actual data itself may not be. Certain U.K. database protection laws provide additional protections for our U.K. databases. We license our services under license agreements that grant our clients non-exclusive, non-transferable rights. These agreements restrict the disclosure and use of our information and prohibit the unauthorized reproduction or transfer of any of our proprietary information, methodologies or analytics. We also attempt to protect our proprietary databases, our trade secrets and our proprietary information through confidentiality and noncompetition agreements with our employees and consultants. Our services also include technical measures designed to detect, discourage and prevent unauthorized access to and/or copying of our intellectual property. We have established an internal antipiracy team that uses fraud-detection technology to continually monitor use of our services to detect and prevent unauthorized access, and we actively prosecute individuals and firms that engage in this unlawful activity. We maintain U.S. and international trademark registrations for CoStars core service names and proactively file U.S. and international trademark applications covering our new and planned service names. Our federally registered trademarks include CoStar, CoStar Suite, CoStar Property, CoStar COMPS, CoStar Tenant, CoStar Lease Analysis, LoopNet, Showcase.com, Cityfeet.com, Apartments.com, Lands of America, Ten-X and HomeSnap, among many others. In the U.S., trademarks are generally valid as long as they are in use and have not been found to be generic. We consider our trademarks in the aggregate to constitute a valuable asset. In addition, we maintain a patent portfolio that protects certain of our systems and methodologies. We currently have one granted patent in the U.K., which expires in 2021, covering, among other things, certain of our field research methodologies, five patents in Canada, which expire in 2021 (2 patents) and 2036 (3 patents), covering, among other things, certain features of our field research methodologies and user interface features, and fifteen patents in the U.S. which expire in 2021 (2 patents), 2022 (2 patents), 2025 (1 patent), 2032 (2 patents), 2036 (3 patents), 2037 (4 patents), and 2038 (1 patent), covering, among other things, certain features of our field research methodologies and user interface feature. We regard the rights protected by our patents as valuable to our business, but do not believe that our business is materially dependent on any single patent or portfolio of patents as a whole. Human Capital Resources As of January 31, 2021, we employed 4,752 employees. U.S-based employees represent approximately 88% of the overall employee population, followed by 10% in European and Asia-Pacific and Latin American countries, and 2% in Canadian provinces. None of our employees are represented by a labor union. We have experienced no work stoppages. We believe that our employee relations are excellent. As is common with many German companies, employees in our German subsidiary, Thomas Daily GmbH, have elected five fellow employees to form a Works Council, which represents our employees at the location. The Works Council has certain co-determination rights and rights to receive information from us and engage us in discussions under applicable law. Our human resources and recruiting team works in partnership with business leaders, using a robust and diverse talent attraction strategy to fill vacancies and contribute to our growth, including our Careers page on our corporate website, employee referral program, social media and digital platforms, direct outreach, partnerships with commercial real estate industry groups and universities, and specific partnerships and programs to ensure a diverse slate of candidates for each role. The development and retention of our employees is critical to our success. To support career development, we offer on-demand and in-person training programs to new hires, managers, and leaders. We also offer a mentoring program, which pairs employees seeking mentorship with more experienced colleagues. To assess employee engagement, we partner with a survey vendor to survey employees annually. Insights and results gathered from the survey are shared with our leadership, managers and employees and help to inform our human resources program strategy each year. We believe that diverse teams deliver better and more innovative solutions. The diversity of thought that comes from different perspectives and backgrounds allows us to deliver cutting edge research and technology solutions that best serve our customers. We have a dedicated Diversity, Equity and Inclusion team that is tasked with developing topical programming, communications and training including, but not limited to, celebrations of various heritage months and oversight of our employee resource groups, which create avenues for mentoring and professional development within these groups as well as education and awareness across the organization. We provide competitive pay and benefits to attract and retain high quality talent. In addition to base salaries, compensation may include annual bonuses, commissions, and equity awards. Employees may also participate in an Employee Stock Purchase 17 Plan, and a 401(k) Plan with a company match. Our comprehensive set of health and wellness benefits are affordable, high quality and valuable to employees and their families. Employees have multiple choices for health plans, access to vision and dental benefits and may participate in our employee wellness program as well as our employee assistance program. Additional benefits include paid time off, parental bonding leave, college savings benefits, tuition reimbursement, company-subsidized commuter benefits and access to mental health, tax, and legal services. We consider the health and wellbeing of our employees, clients, and communities to be our top priority during the COVID-19 pandemic. We transitioned from in-office to remote work for non-essential employees in early March of 2020 through the adoption of new, stable, and secure technologies to support employees in remaining fully productive while working remotely. We also adopted new policies and procedures to ensure safety, which currently include requirements for mask wearing in the office and when coming into contact with the community. We provide personal protective equipment for all employees, including face coverings, hand sanitizer, antibacterial surface sanitizer and other protective equipment as needed. In addition, our office space workstations have been redesigned and upgraded to allow for six feet of social distancing between them and include physical barrier shielding. HVAC systems in our offices have been upgraded with enhanced filtration, increased fresh air intake and ultraviolet lighting disinfection. We have also made a significant investment in commercial grade air filtration equipment and monitor air quality in majority of our office locations. Finally, all high contact surfaces in our offices are cleaned multiple times during the day and deep cleaned each night. We also provide free COVID-19 PCR and antibody testing for our employees and their immediate household family members. Available Information Our investor relations Internet website is http://www.costargroup.com/investors. The reports we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report, quarterly reports and current reports, as well as amendments to those reports, are available free of charge on our Internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Securities and Exchange Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission at http://www.sec.gov. 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks related to our business Our revenues and financial position will be adversely affected if we are not able to attract and retain clients . Our success and revenues depend on attracting and retaining subscribers to our information, analytics and online marketplace services. Our subscription-based services generate the largest portion of our revenues. Our revenue may not grow, or could decrease, if we cannot attract new customers, continue to keep our cancellation rate low and continue to sell new services to our existing customers. We may not be able to continue to grow our customer base, keep the cancellation rate low or sell new services to existing customers as a result of several factors, including, without limitation: economic pressures; the business failure of current clients; customer decisions that they do not need our services or to use alternative services; customers and potential customers budgetary constraints; consolidation in the real estate and/or financial services industries; data quality; technical problems; competitive pressures; or devaluation of the local currencies of international customers relative to the U.S. dollar which impairs the purchasing power of such customers. We compete against many other real estate information, analytics, and marketing service providers for business. If clients cancel services or decide not to renew their subscription agreements, and we do not sell new services to our existing clients or attract new clients, then our renewal rate, net new sales and revenues may decline or fail to meet expectations. We may not be able to successfully develop and introduce new or upgraded information, analytics and online marketplace services that are attractive to our users and advertisers or successfully combine or shift focus from current services with less demand, which could decrease our revenues and our profitability . Our future business and financial success will depend on our ability to continue to anticipate the needs of customers and potential customers, and to successfully introduce new and upgraded services into the marketplace, including services that make our marketplaces useful for users and attractive to advertisers. To be successful, we must be able to quickly adapt to changes in the industry, as well as rapid technological changes by continually enhancing our information, analytics and online marketplace services. As a result, we must continually invest resources in research and development to improve the appeal and comprehensiveness of our services and effectively incorporate new technologies. Developing new services and upgrades to services, as well as integrating and coordinating current services, imposes heavy burdens on our systems department, product development team, management and researchers. The processes are costly, and our efforts to develop, integrate and enhance our services may not be successful. In addition, launching and selling a new or upgraded service puts additional strain on our sales and marketing resources. If we are unsuccessful in obtaining greater market share or in obtaining widespread adoption of new or upgraded services, we may not be able to offset the expenses associated with the development, launch and marketing of the new or upgraded service, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. For example, to generate brand awareness and site traffic for our Apartments.com network of rental websites, we invest significant resources in a multi-channel marketing campaign. If the marketing campaign does not continue to increase brand awareness, site traffic and/or revenues, the cost of the campaign could have an adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, as we integrate acquired businesses, we continue to assess which services we believe will best meet the needs of our customers. If we eliminate or phase out a service and are not able to offer and successfully market and sell an alternative service, our revenue may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors in attracting advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to compete successfully against existing or future competitors in attracting advertisers, which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We compete to attract advertisers. Our competitors may have greater brand recognition or more direct sales personnel than we have and may generate more web traffic than we do, which may provide them with competitive advantages. To compete successfully for advertisers, we must continue to invest resources in developing our advertising platform and proving the effectiveness and relevance of our advertising services. Pressure from competitors seeking to acquire a greater share of our advertisers overall marketing budget could adversely affect our pricing and margins, lower our revenue, and increase our research and development and marketing expenses. If we are unable to compete successfully against our existing or future competitors, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business and results of operations have been and will be, and our financial condition may be, impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and such impact could be materially adverse and continue for an unknown period of time. The global spread of COVID-19 has created significant economic volatility, uncertainty and disruption around the world. The extent to which COVID-19 will further impact our business, operations and financial results, including the duration and magnitude of such impact, is uncertain and will depend on numerous rapidly evolving factors that we cannot accurately predict including, among others: 19 the length and severity of the pandemic; the availability of vaccines to our employees and clients; the negative impact on global and regional economies, credit markets and economic activity; governmental, business and individual actions taken in response to the pandemic and the impact of those actions on global economic activity; the impact of business disruptions and reductions in employment levels and the level of consumer confidence in the economy on our clients and the resulting impact on their demand for our services and solutions; business consolidations or failures among businesses that we serve; our clients ability to pay for our services and solutions and our ability to collect payment for services provided; our ability to market, develop, provide, and train clients on the use of our services and solutions, including as a result of our employees or our clients employees working remotely, worker absenteeism or decreased productivity, quarantines, social distancing or other travel or health-related restrictions; the pace and extent of economic recovery following the COVID-19 pandemic, including recovery in the real estate industry in particular; increased costs of additional safety procedures and increased technology-related expenses to provide for business continuity; and increased cyber security risk, data accessibility concerns and susceptibility to communication disruptions because our employees and employees of our clients are working remotely. As a result of COVID-19 and its impact on global economic conditions, including the real estate industry, towards the end of the first quarter and in the first two months of the second quarter of 2020, we saw an increase in customer requests for cancellations or suspensions, a reduction in new customer sales, failures to pay and delays in payments of amounts owed to us. We may see additional requests as current economic conditions cause customers to reduce expenses and prolong the decision-making time before purchasing third party services, which may lead to fewer of our services being purchased or service cancellations. The extent and duration of any future continued weakening of the economy is unknown, and there can be no assurance that any of the governmental or private sector initiatives designed to strengthen the economy will be successful or available to us and our customers and, if successful, when the benefits will be seen. We expect that cancellations or suspensions, reductions of services and failures to pay amounts due to us may increase at any time while the economic impact of the pandemic and the response to the pandemic impacts our customer base. We compete against many other real estate information and marketing service providers for business. If cancellations, reductions of services and failures to pay increase and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenue by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues will decline and our profitability will be adversely affected. As a business, we have experienced and may continue to experience challenges, including increased costs, as we have and continue to pivot our employees work locations and hours as deemed necessary to respond to COVID-19 to protect the health and well-being of our employees, customers and community. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with government orders, rules, laws or regulations as a result of changes in our operations in response to COVID-19 could subject us to investigations, claims, fines and other penalties, which in turn could adversely affect our business. COVID-19, and the disruption in global economic conditions stemming from the pandemic, could also precipitate or aggravate the other risk factors discussed in this Report, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, the COVID-19 pandemic may also affect our operating and financial results in a manner that is not presently known to us or that we currently do not consider to present significant risks. For additional discussion of the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which could be materially adverse to our operations and financial results, please see "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic" in Item 7 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A downturn or consolidation in the real estate industry may decrease customer demand for our services . The real estate market may be adversely impacted by many different factors, including lower than expected job growth or job losses resulting in reduced real estate demand; rising interest rates and slowing transaction volumes due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise that negatively impact investment returns; excessive speculative new construction in localized markets resulting in increased vacancy rates and diminished rent growth; and unanticipated disasters and other adverse events such as slowing of the growth in the working age population resulting in reduced demand for all types of real estate. A downturn in the real estate market, including as a result of a decline in leasing activity and absorption rates may affect our ability to generate revenues and may lead to more cancellations by our current or future customers, either of which could cause our revenues or our revenue growth rate to decline and reduce our profitability. A depressed real estate market has a negative impact on our core customer base, which could decrease demand for our information, analytics and online marketplaces. Also, companies in this industry may consolidate, often in order to reduce expenses. Consolidation, or other cost-cutting measures by our customers, may lead to cancellations of our information, analytics and online marketplace services by our customers, reduce the 20 number of our existing clients, reduce the size of our target market or increase our clients bargaining power, all of which could cause our revenues to decline and reduce our profitability. If cancellations, reductions of services, and failures to pay increase, and we are unable to offset the resulting decrease in revenues by increasing sales to new or existing customers, our revenues may decline or grow at lower rates. If we are unable to hire qualified persons for, or retain and continue to develop, our sales force, or if our sales force is unproductive, our revenues could be adversely affected. In order to support revenues and revenue growth, we need to continue to develop, train and retain our sales force. Our ability to build and develop a strong sales force may be affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to attract, integrate and motivate sales personnel; our ability to effectively train our sales force; the ability of our sales force to sell an increased number and different types of services; our ability to manage effectively an outbound telesales group; the length of time it takes new sales personnel to become productive; the competition we face from other companies in hiring and retaining sales personnel; our ability to effectively structure our sales force; and our ability to effectively manage a multi-location sales organization, including field sales personnel. If we are unable to hire qualified sales personnel and develop and retain our sales force, including sales force management, or if our sales force is unproductive, our revenues or growth rate could decline and our expenses could increase. We may be unable to increase awareness of our brands, including CoStar, LoopNet, Apartments.com, BizBuySell, LandsofAmerica, STR, Ten-X and Homesnap, which could adversely affect our business. We rely heavily on our brands, which we believe are key assets of our company. Awareness and differentiation of our brands are important for attracting and expanding the number of users of, and subscribers to, our online marketplaces, such as LoopNet, the Apartments.com network of rental websites, CoStar Showcase, and the Land.com network of rural lands for-sale. We expect to continue to invest in sales and marketing in 2021 as we seek to grow the numbers of subscribers to, and advertisers on, our marketplaces. Our methods of advertising may not be successful in increasing brand awareness or, ultimately, be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance user and advertiser awareness of our brands, or if we are unable to recover our marketing and advertising costs through increased usage of our services and increased advertising on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our internal and external investments may place downward pressure on our operating margins. To increase our revenue growth, we continue to invest in our business, including internal investments in product development to expand the breadth and depth of services we provide to our customers and external investments in sales and marketing to generate brand awareness. Our operating margins may experience downward pressure in the short term as a result of these investments. Furthermore, our investments may not produce the expected results. If we are unable to successfully execute our investment strategy, we may experience decreases in our revenues and operating margins. If Internet search engines do not prominently feature our websites on the search engine results page, traffic to our websites would decrease and, if we are unable to maintain or increase traffic to our marketplaces, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to generate revenues from our marketplace business depends, in part, on our ability to attract users to our websites. Google, Bing, DuckDuckGo and other Internet search engines drive traffic to our websites, including CoStar.com, the Apartments.com network of rental websites, the LoopNet.com network of commercial real estate websites, Ten-X.com, the BizBuySell.com network of business for-sale websites and the Land.com network of land for-sale websites. For example, when a user enters in a search query for an apartment building name or address into an Internet search engine, the Internet search engines ranking of our Apartments.com webpages will determine how prominently such webpages are displayed on the search engine results page. Our ability to maintain prominent search result rankings and positioning is not entirely within our control. Our competitors Search Engine Optimization (SEO) and Search Engine Marketing (SEM) efforts may result in webpages from their websites receiving higher rankings than the webpages from our websites. Internet search engines could revise their algorithms and methodologies in ways that would adversely affect our search result rankings. Internet search engine providers could form partnerships or enter into other business relationships with our competitors resulting in competitors sites receiving higher search result rankings. Internet search engines are increasingly placing alternative search features (such as featured snippets, local map results and other immersive experiences) on the search engine results page above or more prominently than search engine results. If our search result rankings are not prominently displayed, traffic to our websites may decline which could slow the growth of our user base. Our websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations will occur in the future. If we experience a material reduction in the number of users directed to our websites through Internet search engines or otherwise fail to maintain or increase traffic to our marketplaces, our ability to acquire additional subscribers or advertisers and deliver leads to and retain existing subscribers and advertisers could be adversely affected. As a result, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our marketing expenses may increase in connection with our efforts to maintain or increase traffic to our websites. Increases in our operating expenses could negatively impact our operating results if we are unable to generate more revenues through increased sales of subscriptions to our marketplace products. 21 Competition could render our services uncompetitive and reduce our profitability . The markets for information systems and services and for online marketplaces in general are highly competitive and rapidly changing. Competition in these markets may increase further if economic conditions or other circumstances cause customer bases and customer spending to decrease and service providers to compete for fewer customer resources. Our existing or future competitors, may have greater name recognition, larger customer bases, better technology or data, lower prices, easier access to data, greater user traffic or greater financial, technical or marketing resources than we have to provide services that users might view as superior to our offerings. Competitors may introduce different solutions that attract users away from our services or provide solutions similar to ours that have the advantage of better branding or marketing resources. Our competitors may be able to undertake more effective marketing campaigns, obtain more data, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, make more attractive offers to potential employees, subscribers, advertisers, distribution partners and content providers or may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in user requirements. Increased competition could result in lower revenues and higher expenses, which would reduce our profitability. If real estate professionals or other advertisers reduce or cancel their advertising spending with us and we are unable to attract new advertisers, our operating results would be harmed. Our marketplace businesses, including LoopNet, the Apartments.com network of rental websites, and the Land.com network of rural lands for-sale, depend on advertising revenues generated primarily through sales to persons in the real estate industry, including property managers and owners and other advertisers. Our ability to attract and retain advertisers, and ultimately to generate advertising revenue, depends on a number of factors, including: Increasing the number of unique visitors to, and users of, our websites and mobile applications; The quantity and quality of the leads that we provide to our advertisers; The success of any marketing and product development efforts directed at attracting additional users and advertisers to our marketplaces; Keeping pace with changes in technology and with our competitors; and Offering an attractive return on investment to our advertisers for their advertising dollars spent with us. Further, with respect to the Apartments.com network of rental websites, our ability to attract and retain advertisers also depends on the current apartment rental market and apartment vacancy rates. If vacancy rates are too high or too low, advertisers may not need to utilize our marketplace services. Many of the advertisers who advertise on our marketplaces do not have long-term contracts. These advertisers could choose to modify or discontinue their relationships with us with little or no advance notice. As existing subscriptions for advertising expire, we may not be successful in renewing these subscriptions or securing new subscriptions. We may not succeed in retaining existing advertisers spending or capturing a greater share of such spending if we are unable to convince advertisers of the effectiveness of our services as compared to alternatives. In addition, future changes to our pricing methodology for advertising services may cause advertisers to reduce or discontinue their advertising with us. If current advertisers reduce or end their advertising spending with us and we are unable to attract new advertisers, our advertising revenues and business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. If we are not able to successfully identify, finance, integrate and/or manage costs related to acquisitions, our business operations and financial position could be adversely affected . We have expanded our markets and services in part through acquisitions of complementary businesses, services, databases and technologies, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Our acquisition strategy depends on our ability to identify, and the availability of, suitable acquisition candidates. We are likely to incur costs in connection with proposed acquisitions, but may ultimately be unable or unwilling to consummate any particular proposed transaction for various reasons. For example, the FTC recently withheld approval for our proposed acquisition of RentPath, the purchase agreement was subsequently terminated, and we incurred a termination fee of $52 million. We are also likely to incur severance costs and other integration costs post-acquisition. Costs in connection with acquisitions and integrations may be higher than expected and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operation or prospects of the combined business. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including risks that we will not be able to realize or capitalize on synergies created through combinations; manage the integration of personnel and products or services; manage the integration of acquired infrastructure and controls; control potential increases in operating costs; manage geographically remote operations; maintain managements attention on other business concerns and avoid potential disruptions in ongoing operations during an acquisition process or integration efforts; successfully enter markets and sectors in which we have either limited or no direct experience, including foreign markets whose practices, regulations or laws may pose increased risk; and retain key employees, clients or vendors and other business partners of the acquired companies. We may not successfully integrate acquired businesses or assets and may not achieve anticipated benefits of an acquisition, including expected synergies. For example, we may be unable to fully integrate STR, Ten-X and Homesnap with CoStar when and as expected. 22 We are subject to an FTC consent order, which is publicly available on the FTC's website at http://www.ftc.gov/, that, among other things, requires us to give the FTC advance notice of certain acquisitions. Compliance with this order could prevent us from closing certain acquisitions or add significant time and cost to such acquisitions, ultimately making an acquisition prohibitive or preventing us from realizing its anticipated benefits. External factors, such as compliance with laws and regulations, and shifting market preferences, may also impact the successful integration of an acquired business. An acquired business could strain our system of internal controls and diminish its effectiveness. Acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, and substantial amortization expenses of other intangible assets. We may be unable to obtain financing on favorable terms, or at all, if necessary to finance future acquisitions, making it impossible or more costly to complete future acquisitions. If we are able to obtain financing, the terms may be onerous and restrict our operations. Further, certain acquisitions may be subject to regulatory approval, which can be time consuming and costly to obtain or may be denied, as in the case of RentPath. If regulatory approval is obtained, the terms of any such approval may impose limitations on our ongoing operations or require us to divest assets or lines of business. If regulatory approval is denied, we may incur significant, additional costs payable to an acquisition target as a result of failure to close the transaction. For example, we incurred a termination fee of $52 million in connection with termination of the RentPath purchase agreement. Significant break-up fees incurred in the future may adversely affect our results of operation and financial condition. As a result of our acquisitions, we had approximately $2.7 billion of goodwill and intangibles as of December 31, 2020. Future acquisitions may increase this amount. If we are required to recognize goodwill and intangibles impairment charges in the future, this would negatively affect our financial results in the periods of such charges, which may reduce our profitability. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with privacy laws and standards could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . We depend on information technology networks and systems to process, transmit and store electronic information and to communicate among our locations around the world and with our clients and vendors. We collect, use and disclose personally identifiable information, such as names, addresses, phone numbers and email addresses. We collect, store and use biometric data and sensitive or confidential transaction and account information. We also collect personal information from tenants and landlords, including social security numbers, birthdates and financial information to facilitate the apartment rental application and payment process between a renter and property manager. As a result, we are subject to a variety of state, national, and international laws and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data, including the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA). These laws and regulations are evolving, with new or modified laws and regulations proposed and implemented frequently and existing laws and regulations subject to new or different interpretations. For example, the GDPR introduced new data protection requirements in the EU and imposes substantial fines for breaches of the data protection rules. The GDPR increased our responsibility and liability in relation to personal data that we process. Following the end of the Brexit transition on December 31, 2020, the EU and U.K. agreed, as part of a wider trade deal, a further transitional period at least another four months, extendable to six months, during which personal data may flow freely from the European Economic Area (the EEA) to the U.K.. During that period, the European Commission is considering whether to make an adequacy decision in favor of the U.K., finding that the U.K. offers protection of personal data equivalent to the EEA, which will allow data to continue to flow freely between the EEA and the U.K. On February 19, 2021, the European Commission published draft adequacy decisions. If no final adequacy decision is made in favor of the U.K. before the end of the further transitional period, because transfers of personal data between an EEA country and the U.K. will be transfers to a third country, we may be required to put in place additional mechanisms in place to enable transfers of data from EEA countries to the U.K. to ensure compliance with the GDPR. The CCPA, which became effective on January 1, 2020, expands the rights of California residents to access and require deletion of their personal information, opt out of certain personal information sharing and receive detailed information about how their personal information is used. The CCPA also provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches that may increase data breach litigation. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with the rules arising from the GDPR and related national laws of EU member states or the U.K., CCPA and other privacy or data protection laws adopted by other jurisdictions, could lead to government enforcement actions and significant penalties against us, and could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Compliance with any of the foregoing laws and regulations can be costly, can delay or impede the development of new products, and may require us to change the way we operate. The interpretation and application of many privacy and data protection laws are uncertain. These laws may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our products. If so, in addition to the possibility of negative publicity, fines, lawsuits and other claims and penalties, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our products, which could harm our business. 23 Cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities could result in serious harm to our reputation, business, and financial condition. As stated above, our business involves the collection, storage, processing and transmission of customers personal data. We also collect, store and process employee personal data. An increasing number of organizations, including large merchants, businesses, technology companies and financial institutions, as well as government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks, including on their websites, mobile applications, and infrastructure. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized, improper or illegal access to a target's systems, data or customers' data, disable or degrade services, or sabotage systems are constantly evolving and have become increasingly complex and sophisticated, may be difficult to detect quickly and often are not recognized or detected until after they have been launched against a target. We expect that unauthorized parties will continue to attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities or those of our customers or vendors, or attempting to fraudulently induce (for example, through spear phishing attacks or social engineering) our employees, customers, vendors or other users of our systems into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology systems. Numerous and evolving cybersecurity threats, including advanced and persisting cyberattacks, phishing and social engineering schemes, could compromise the confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the data in our systems. Our efforts to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents, may not be effective. Further, the security measures and procedures our customers, vendors and other users of our systems have in place to protect sensitive consumer data and other information may not be successful or sufficient to counter all data breaches, cyberattacks or system failures. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches, and third parties may be able to access our customers or employees personal or proprietary information that is stored on or accessible through those systems. We have experienced from time to time, and may experience in the future, breaches of our security measures due to human error, malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities or other irregularities. Actual or perceived breaches of our security could result in any of the following, among other things, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations: Interrupt our operations, Result in our systems or services being unavailable, Result in improper disclosures of data, Materially harm our reputation and brands, Result in significant regulatory scrutiny and legal and financial exposure, Cause us to incur significant remediation costs, Lead to loss of customer confidence in, or decreased use of, our products and services, Divert the attention of management from the operation of our business, and Result in significant contractual penalties or other payments as a result of third-party losses or claims. In addition, any cyberattacks or data security breaches affecting companies that we acquire or our customers or vendors (including data center and cloud computing providers) could have similar negative effects on our business. For example, In December 2020, we became aware that one of our vendors providing IT infrastructure management software, SolarWinds Corporation, had been compromised by cyberattacks. As of December 22, 2020, we had implemented the fully patched versions of the SolarWinds software and we took additional measures to block Internet connectivity to and from all SolarWinds' Orion servers. Although we have not identified any compromise of our IT systems due to the use of SolarWinds software to date, we continue to monitor our network for any potential impact related to the SolarWinds cyberattack. Any breach of our security measures or the loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of the SolarWinds cyberattack, could result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. The coverage under our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. 24 Technical problems or disruptions that affect either our customers ability to access our services, or the software, internal applications, database and network systems underlying our services, could damage our reputation and lead to reduced demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services, lower revenues and increased costs . Our business, brands and reputation depend upon the satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, the Internet and our service providers. Interruptions in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, software errors, physical or electronic break-ins, or malicious hacks or attacks on our systems (such as denial of service attacks), could affect the security and availability of our services on our mobile applications and our websites and prevent or inhibit users' access to our services. Our operations also depend on our ability to protect our databases, computers and software, telecommunications equipment and facilities against damage from potential dangers such as fire, flood, power loss, security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. In addition, the software, internal applications and systems underlying our services are complex and may not be error-free. We may encounter technical problems when we attempt to enhance our software, internal applications and systems. Our users rely on our services for the conduct of their own businesses. Disruptions in, technical problems with, or reductions in ability to access, our services for any reason could damage our users businesses, harm our reputation, result in additional costs or reduce demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services, any of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The majority of the communications, network and computer hardware used to operate our mobile applications and websites are located at facilities in Virginia and California. We do not own or control the operation of certain of these facilities. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, power loss, security breaches, computer viruses, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. These risks may be increased with respect to operations housed at facilities we do not own or control. The occurrence of any of the foregoing events could result in damage to our systems and hardware or could cause them to fail completely, and our insurance may not cover such events or may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. A failure of our systems at any site could result in reduced functionality for our users, and a total failure of our systems could cause our mobile applications or websites to be inaccessible. Problems faced or caused by our information technology service providers, including content distribution service providers, private network providers, Internet providers and third-party web-hosting providers, or with the systems by which they allocate capacity among their customers (as applicable), could adversely affect the experience of our users. Any financial difficulties, such as bankruptcy reorganization, faced by these third-party service providers or any of the service providers with whom they contract may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which are difficult to predict. If our third-party service providers are unable to keep up with our growing needs for capacity, our business could be harmed. In addition, if distribution channels for our mobile applications experience disruptions, such disruptions could adversely affect the ability of users and potential users to access or update our mobile applications, which could harm our business. Our business interruption insurance may not cover certain events or may be insufficient to compensate us for the potentially significant losses, including the potential harm to the future growth of our business, which may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures or malicious attacks. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current or future geographic expansion plans may not result in increased revenues, which may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position . Expanding into new markets and increasing the depth of our coverage in existing markets imposes additional burdens on our research, systems development, sales, marketing and general managerial resources. If we are unable to manage our expansion efforts effectively, if our expansion efforts take longer or are more expensive than planned or we are not successful in marketing and selling our services in existing or new markets, our expansion may have a material adverse effect on our financial position by increasing our expenses without increasing our revenues. Our operating results and revenues are subject to fluctuations and our quarterly financial results may be subject to market cyclicality, each of which could negatively affect our stock price. The real estate market may be influenced by general economic conditions, economic cycles, seasonality and many other factors, which in turn may impact our financial results. The different sectors of the large and fragmented industry, such as office, industrial, retail, multifamily, single family and others, are influenced differently by different factors, and have historically moved through economic cycles with different timing. As such, it is difficult to estimate the potential impact of economic cycles and conditions or seasonality from year-to-year on our overall operating results. We generally see higher sales of Apartments.com listing services during the peak summer rental season and higher CoStar Suite sales towards the end of the year, however sales fluctuate from year-to-year and may fluctuate more widely when there are changes in general economic conditions or the industry, such as changes resulting from the COVID-19 25 pandemic. In addition, we generally incur greater marketing expenses during the second quarter, which coincides with the peak season for apartment rentals. The timing of widely observed holidays and vacation periods, particularly slowdowns during the end-of-year holiday period, and availability of real estate agents and related service providers during these periods, could significantly affect our quarterly operating results during that period. If we are unable to adequately respond to economic, seasonal or cyclical conditions, our revenues, expenses and operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Our operating results, revenues and expenses may fluctuate for many reasons, including those described in this paragraph and below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Rates of subscriber adoption and retention; Timing of our sales conference or significant marketing events; Changes in our pricing strategy and timing of changes; The timing and success of new service introductions and enhancements; The shift of focus from, or phase out of services that overlap or are redundant with other services we offer; The amount and timing of our expenses and capital expenditures; The amount and timing of non-cash stock-based charges; Acquisition-related costs or impairment charges associated with such investments and acquisitions; Competition; Changes or consolidation in the real estate industry; Interest rate fluctuations; Execution of our expansion and integration plans; The development of our sales force; Foreign currency and exchange rate fluctuations; Inflation; and Changes in client budgets. These fluctuations could negatively affect our results of operations during the period in question and/or future periods or cause our stock price to decline. In addition, changes in accounting policies or practices may affect our level of net income. Fluctuations in our financial results, revenues and expenses may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Fluctuating foreign currencies may negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial position. A portion of our business is denominated in foreign currencies. We translate sales and other results denominated in foreign currency into U.S. dollars for our financial statements. During periods of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported international sales and earnings could be reduced because foreign currencies may translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Foreign currency exchange rates have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate. Significant foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively impact our international revenue, which in turn affects our consolidated revenue. Currently, we are not party to any hedging transactions intended to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. We may seek to enter into hedging transactions in the future, but we may be unable to enter into these transactions successfully, on acceptable terms or at all. We cannot predict whether we will incur foreign exchange losses in the future. Further, significant foreign exchange fluctuations resulting in a decline in the respective local currency may decrease the value of our foreign assets, as well as decrease our revenues and earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, which would reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial position. Our business depends on retaining and attracting highly capable management and operating personnel . Our success depends in large part on our ability to retain and attract management and operating personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Andrew Florance, and our other officers and key employees. Our business requires highly skilled technical, sales, management, web product and development, marketing and research personnel, who are in high demand and are often subject to competing offers. To retain and attract key personnel, we use various measures, including employment agreements, awards under a stock incentive plan and incentive bonuses for key employees. These measures may not be enough to retain and attract the personnel we need or to offset the impact on our business of the loss of the services of Mr. Florance or other key officers or employees. Changes in tax laws, regulations or fiscal and tax policies or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement could adversely impact our financial performance. New laws or regulations, or changes in existing laws or regulations, or the manner of their interpretation or enforcement, could increase our cost of doing business. For example, in December 2017, the United States enacted The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"), and various provisions of the new law may adversely affect us. Certain aspects of Tax Reform are unclear and may not be clarified for some time. During 2018, the Department of the Treasury issued certain guidance in the form of notices and proposed regulations with respect to several provisions of the new legislation. We expect that additional regulations or other guidance may be issued with respect to the Tax Act in subsequent years. We continue to examine the impact this tax reform legislation may have on our business. In addition, if federal, state, local or 26 foreign tax authorities change applicable tax laws or issue new guidance, including in response to the Tax Act, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. We are subject to a number of risks related to acceptance of credit cards and debit cards and facilitation of other customer payments . We depend on processing vendors to complete credit and debit card transactions. If we or our processing vendors fail to maintain adequate systems to authorize and process credit card transactions, one or more of the major credit card companies could disallow our continued use of their payment products. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, our processing vendors may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. We could lose customers if we are not able to continue to use payment products of the major credit card companies. In addition, if the systems to authorize and process credit card transactions fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not charge our customers credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We depend on processing vendors to complete credit and debit card transactions and Automated Clearing House (ACH) payments, both for payments made to us directly for our services and for payments made by renters to landlords using our online leasing services. If we or any one or more of these service providers fail to maintain adequate systems for authorization and processing credit card payments, it could cause one or more of the major credit card companies to disallow our continued use of their payment products. Further, if we or any one or more of these service providers fail to maintain adequate systems for authorization and processing of credit, debit, ACH or similar payments or if any such service provider were to terminate or modify its relationship with us unexpectedly, our ability to process those customer transactions would be adversely affected, which could decrease sales, discourage customers away from our marketplace services, result in potential legal liability, and harm our business and reputation. In addition, if the systems for the authorization and processing of credit card transactions fail to work properly and, as a result, we do not charge our customers credit cards on a timely basis or at all, our business, revenue, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted in ways that make it more difficult for us to comply. We are required to comply with payment card industry security standards. Failing to comply with those standards may violate payment card association operating rules, federal and state laws and regulations, and the terms of our contracts with payment processors. Any failure to comply also may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and may result in the loss of our ability to accept credit and debit card payments. Further, there is no guarantee that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payment systems or the theft, loss, or misuse of data pertaining to credit and debit cards, cardholders and transactions. The payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by criminals, who are becoming increasingly sophisticated, seeking to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. If we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements for the payment methods we accept, or if payment-related data are compromised due to a breach of data, we may be liable for significant costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments may be impaired. In addition, our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which may result in a shift to other payment types or potential changes to our payment systems that may result in higher costs. If we fail to adequately control fraudulent payment transactions, we may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our security measures and higher costs, each of which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain our chargeback rate or refund rates at acceptable levels, our processing vendors may increase our transaction fees or terminate their relationships with us. Any increases in our credit and debit card fees could harm our results of operations, particularly if we elect not to raise our rates for our services to offset the increase. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major credit or debit card would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Risks related to our data, intellectual property and listings If we are not able to obtain and maintain accurate, comprehensive or reliable data, we could experience reduced demand for our information, analytics and online marketplace services . Our success depends on our clients confidence in the comprehensiveness, accuracy and reliability of the data and analysis we provide. Establishing and maintaining accurate and reliable data and analysis is challenging. If our data, including the data we obtain from third parties or directly from brokers through the Marketing Center feature on CoStar and LoopNet, or analysis is not current, accurate, comprehensive or reliable, we could experience reduced demand for our services or be subject to legal claims by our customers, either of which could result in lower revenues and higher expenses. 27 If we are unable to enforce or defend our ownership and use of intellectual property, our business, brands, competitive position and operating results could be harmed . The success of our business depends in large part on our intellectual property, including intellectual property involved in our methodologies, databases, services and software. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade secret, patent, copyright and other laws, nondisclosure and noncompetition provisions, license agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. However, current law may not provide for adequate protection of our databases and the actual data. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and evolving, and changes in these standards may adversely impact the viability or value of our proprietary rights. We find our proprietary content on competitors' sites. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, including our content, our brands and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. The same would be true if a court found that our services infringe other persons intellectual property rights. Any intellectual property lawsuits or threatened lawsuits in which we are involved, either as a plaintiff or as a defendant, have cost us and could continue to cost us a significant amount of time and money and distract managements attention from operating our business. In addition, if we do not prevail on an intellectual property claim, this could result in a change to our methodology or information, analytics and online marketplace services and could reduce our profitability. Effective trademark, trade secret, patent, and copyright protection may not be available in every country in which we provide our services. The laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use, which could harm our competitive position. This risk will increase as we continue to expand our business into new international jurisdictions. We may not be able to successfully halt the operation of websites that aggregate our data, as well as data from other companies, or copycat websites that may misappropriate our data. Third parties may misappropriate our data through website scraping, robots or other means and aggregate and display this data on their websites. In addition, copycat websites may misappropriate data on our website and attempt to imitate our brands or the functionality of our website. We may not be able to detect all such websites in a timely manner and, even if we could, technological and legal measures available to us may be insufficient to stop their operations and the misappropriation of our data. Any measures that we may take to enforce our rights could require us to expend significant financial or other resources. We may be subject to legal liability for collecting, displaying or distributing information . Because the content in our database is collected from various sources and distributed to others, we may be subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, negligence, unfair competition or copyright or trademark infringement or claims based on other theories, such as breach of laws related to privacy and data protection. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our website through links to other websites or information on our website supplied by third parties. Even if these claims do not result in liability to us, we could incur significant costs in investigating and defending against any claims and we could be subject to public notice requirements that may affect our reputation. Our potential liability for information distributed by us to others could require us to implement measures to reduce our exposure to such liability, which may require us to expend substantial resources and limit the attractiveness of our information, analytics and online marketplaces to users. If we are unable to obtain or retain listings from real estate brokers, agents, property owners and apartment property managers, our marketplace services, could be less attractive to current or potential customers, which could reduce our revenues. The value of our real estate marketplace services to our customers depends on our ability to increase the number of property listings provided and searches conducted. As the number of listings increases, so does the utility of a marketplace's search, listing and marketing services. We depend substantially on brokers, agents, property owners and, in the case of apartment rentals, property managers to submit listings to our marketplaces. If these parties choose not to continue their listings with us, or choose to list them with a competitor, our CRE marketplace services could be less attractive to other real estate industry transaction participants, resulting in reduced revenue. Similarly, the value and utility of our other marketplaces, including the BizBuySell.com network of business for-sale websites, are also dependent on attracting and retaining listings. Risks related to our international operations International operations expose us to additional business risks, which may reduce our profitability . Our international operations and expansion subject us to additional business risks, including: currency exchange rate fluctuations; adapting to the differing business practices and laws in foreign countries; including differing laws regarding privacy and data protection; difficulties in managing foreign operations; limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; costs of enforcing contractual obligations; impact of recessions in economies outside the U.S.; and potentially adverse tax consequences. In addition, international expansion imposes additional burdens on our executive and administrative personnel, systems development, research and sales departments, and general 28 managerial resources. If we are not able to manage our international operations successfully, we may incur higher expenses and our profitability may be reduced. Finally, the investment required for additional international expansion sometimes exceeds the profit generated from such expansion, which reduces our profitability and may adversely affect our financial position. The economic effects of Brexit may affect relationships with existing and future customers and could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. On June 23, 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which British citizens approved an exit from the European Union (E.U.), commonly referred to as Brexit. On January 31, 2020, the U.K. officially withdrew from the E.U, beginning a transition period of negotiations between the British government and the E.U. and other governments. On December 24, 2020, the E.U. and the U.K. announced they had entered into a post-Brexit deal on certain aspects of trade and other strategic and political issues. The impact of Brexit, the December 2020 post-Brexit agreement and the future relationship between the E.U. and the U.K., including terms not addressed in the December 2020 agreement, remain uncertain. Such uncertainty could cause political and economic uncertainty in the U.K. and the rest of Europe, which could harm our business and financial results. In particular, Brexit caused and could continue to cause significant volatility in global equity markets, currency exchange rates and other asset prices, including those related to real property. Brexit may also lead to divergent national laws and regulations as the U.K. determines which E.U. laws to replace or replicate, and compliance with those laws and regulations may be cumbersome, difficult or costly. Further, Brexit may lead other E.U. member countries to consider referendums regarding their E.U. membership. We cannot yet predict the future implications of Brexit, including whether it could increase our cost of doing business or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. The impact to us from Brexit may affect not only our U.K. operations but operations in other parts of the E.U. Risks related to our indebtedness We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which could decrease our flexibility and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations . As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $1 billion of Senior Notes outstanding and an additional approximately $750 million available to be drawn under the 2020 Credit Agreement. There can be no assurance that our future cash flows will be sufficient to make payments of interest or principal on the Senior Notes or any amounts due and payable under the 2020 Credit Agreement. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Furthermore, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, and if we incur additional indebtedness or other liabilities, the related risks that we face could intensify. The 2020 Credit Agreement contains customary restrictive covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions that may limit our ability to engage in acts that we believe may be in our long-term best interests. These covenants restrict our ability and the ability of our domestic subsidiaries to, among other things, (i) incur additional indebtedness, (ii) incur liens, (iii) pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, investments or acquisitions, (iv) merge or consolidate with another person, and (v) sell, assign, lease or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the 2020 Credit Agreement requires us to comply with a maintenance covenant that we will not exceed a total net leverage ratio, calculated as total consolidated debt, net of up to $1.0 billion of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, to consolidated EBITDA, of 4.50 to 1.00. The operating restrictions and financial covenants in the 2020 Credit Agreement may limit our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to engage in other business activities or to respond to changes in market conditions. Our ability to comply with any financial covenants could be affected materially by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to satisfy any such requirements. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we may need to seek waivers or amendments of such covenants, seek alternative or additional sources of financing or reduce our expenditures. We may be unable to obtain such waivers, amendments or alternative or additional financing on a timely basis or at all, or on favorable terms. A breach of the covenants under the 2020 Credit Agreement or the indenture that governs the Senior Notes could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration provision applies. In the event the holders of the Senior Notes or our other debt accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Our borrowings under the 2020 Credit Agreement will carry a variable interest rate based on the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (EURIBOR) or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as a benchmark for establishing the rate of interest. LIBOR is the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. The U.K. authority that regulates LIBOR announced that it will not compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after June 29 2023. The full impact of any transition away from LIBOR remains unclear. We may need or seek to negotiate with our lenders for an alternative rate. We may not be able to agree with our lenders on a replacement reference rate that is as favorable as LIBOR, which may increase in the cost of our borrowings under the 2020 Credit Agreement. Our indebtedness increases our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; requires us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on indebtedness, reducing the availability of cash flow to fund capital expenditures, marketing and other general corporate activities; limits our ability to borrow additional funds; and may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate. A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs, reduce our access to capital or result in the loss of certain covenant suspensions . Our debt rating could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agencys judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, warrant. Any future lowering of our ratings likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing. In addition, the 2020 Credit Agreement provides that, during any period of time in which we maintain a corporate investment grade rating from any two of Standard & Poors Rating Services, Fitch Ratings, Inc. or Moodys Investors Services, Inc. (such period, a Covenant Suspension Period), certain customary negative and affirmative covenants contained in the 2020 Credit Agreement are suspended, including the covenants restricting affiliate transactions, incurrence of indebtedness, investments, asset sales and restricted payments. A lowering of one or both of our investment grade ratings would result in increased compliance costs and would impose certain operating restrictions, either of which could be materially adverse to our operations and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our headquarters is located at 1331 L Street, NW, in downtown Washington, DC, where we occupy approximately 169,093 square feet of office space, with a lease that expires May 31, 2025 (with two 5-year renewal options). Our headquarters is used primarily by our North America operating segment. Our principal facility in the U.K. is located in London, where we occupy 23,064 square feet of office space. Our lease for this facility has a term ending August 31, 2025. This facility is used by our International operating segment. We also operate our research functions out of leased office spaces in Richmond, Virginia; San Diego, California; and Atlanta, Georgia. Additionally, we lease office space in a variety of other metropolitan areas. These locations include, among others, the following: Hendersonville, Tennessee; Irvine, California; Boston, Massachusetts; San Francisco, California; Ontario, California; and Los Angeles, California. We believe these facilities are suitable and appropriately support our business needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings Currently, and from time to time, we are involved in litigation incidental to the conduct of our business, including, among others, the legal actions discussed under Contingencies in Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies to our Financial Statements. While our management presently believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our business, financial position, future results of operations or liquidity, legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and unfavorable rulings could, individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, future results of operations or liquidity. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not Applicable. 30 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol CSGP. As of January 31, 2021, there were 1,751 holders of record of our common stock. Dividend Policy. We have never declared or paid any dividends on our common stock. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock during the foreseeable future, but intend to retain any earnings for future growth of our business. Recent Issues of Unregistered Securities. We did not issue any unregistered securities during the year ended December 31, 2020. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. The following table is a summary of our repurchases of common stock during each of the three months in the quarter ended December 31, 2020: ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Month, 2020 Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1 through 31 1,724 $ 848.63 November 1 through 30 2,097 835.61 December 1 through 31 967 879.64 Total 4,788 (1) $ 849.19 __________________________________________ (1) The number of shares purchased consists of shares of common stock tendered by employees to the Company to satisfy the employees' minimum tax withholding obligations arising as a result of vesting of restricted stock grants under the Companys 2016 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, which shares were purchased by the Company based on their fair market value on the trading day immediately preceding the vesting date. None of these share purchases were part of a publicly announced program to purchase common stock of the Company. 31 Stock Price Performance Graph The stock performance graph below shows how an initial investment of $100 in our common stock would have compared to: An equal investment in the Standards & Poor's Stock 500 (S&P 500) Index; and An equal investment in the S&P 500 Internet Services & Infrastructure Index. The comparison covers the period beginning December 31, 2015, and ending on December 31, 2020, and assumes the reinvestment of any dividends. Note that this performance is historical and is not necessarily indicative of future price performance. Company / Index 12/31/15 12/31/16 12/31/17 12/31/18 12/31/19 12/31/20 CoStar Group, Inc. $ 100 $ 91.19 $ 143.67 $ 163.21 $ 289.47 $ 447.18 S&P 500 Index 100 111.96 136.40 130.42 171.49 203.04 S&P 500 Internet Services & Infrastructure Index 100 105.18 148.04 135.52 182.22 211.53 __________________________ 32 Item 6. Selected Financial Data Selected Financial Data (in thousands, except per share data) The following table provides selected consolidated financial data for the five years ended December 31, 2020. The consolidated statements of operations data shown below for each of the three years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements that are included in this report. The consolidated statements of operations data for each of the years ended 2017 and 2016 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of December 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016 shown below are derived from audited consolidated financial statements for those years that are not included in this report. Information about prior period acquisitions and the adoption of recent accounting pronouncements that may affect the comparability of the selected financial information presented below are included in "Item 1. Business" and Note 2 to the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part IV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The total assets and total long-term liabilities reported in the consolidated balance sheet data have been reclassified to conform to our current presentation as a result of the retrospective application of the authoritative guidance to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs. The following data should be read in conjunction with Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,