Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating globally. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Summary Risk Factors Investing in our Class A common stock involves a high degree of risk because our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, as further described below. The occurrence of any such risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. The principal factors and uncertainties that make investing in our Class A common stock speculative or risky include, among others: our results of operations may fluctuate significantly, which makes our future results of operations difficult to predict and could cause our results of operations to fall below expectations; we may be unable to effectively manage the continued growth of our workforce and operations, including the development and management of new business initiatives; our business is rapidly evolving, and we plan to continue to forgo short-term financial performance for long-term growth, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and predict our future results of operations, including our revenue growth rate; we have a history of net losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability in future periods; if we were to lose the services of members of our senior management team, we may not be able to execute our business strategy; the COVID-19 pandemic may continue to adversely affect our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we, our customers, suppliers, merchants, and advertisers operate; we face intense competition and could lose market share to our competitors if we do not innovate or compete effectively; because some of our operations are subject to Korean law, there are circumstances in which certain of our Korean affiliates executive officers may be held either directly or vicariously criminally liable for the actions of our Korean affiliates or our Korean affiliates executives and employees; some of our operations are subject to certain detailed and complex fair trade, labor, employment, and workplace safety laws and regulations, which continue to evolve and have and will continue to affect our operations and financial performance, could subject us to costs and penalties, and may affect our reputation; harm to our Coupang brand or our associated brands and marks (our brand) or reputation may occur if manufacturers and distributors from whom we buy products (suppliers) or the parties that sell their products on our marketplace (merchants) use unethical or illegal business practices, such as the sale of counterfeit or fraudulent products, or if our protocols with respect to such sales are perceived or found to be inadequate, which may also subject us to possible sanctions or penalties; 8 Table of Contents any significant interruptions or delays in service on our apps or websites, or any undetected errors or design faults, could result in limited capacity, reduced demand, processing delays, and loss of customers, suppliers, or merchants; any failure to protect our apps, websites, networks, and systems against security breaches or otherwise protect our confidential information could damage our reputation and brand and may subject us to possible sanctions or penalties; any failure to comply with privacy laws or regulations, or to fulfill privacy-related customer expectations in the jurisdictions where we operate, could damage our reputation and brand and business and may subject us to possible sanctions or penalties; we rely on Coupang Pay to conduct a substantial amount of the payment processing. If Coupang Pays services were limited, restricted, curtailed, or degraded in any way, or become unavailable to us or our customers for any reason, our business may be adversely affected; our expansion into new geographic markets and offerings and substantial increase in the number of our offerings may expose us to new and increased challenges and risks; international relations, including escalations in tensions with North Korea, could adversely affect the Korean or global economies and demand for our products and services; and the dual class structure of our common stock will have the effect of concentrating voting control with Mr. Bom Kim. This voting control will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important transactions and to influence corporate governance matters. Risks Related to Our Limited Operating History and Growth We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing expenses in the future, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability, which would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We have a history of net losses, including $(1.5) billion and $(463) million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, as well as an accumulated deficit of $(5.7) billion as of December 31, 2021. While we have experienced significant revenue growth since our inception, we are not certain whether or when we will achieve or maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain or increase the revenue growth we have experienced during the COVID-19 pandemic. Our costs and expenses have increased, particularly during the COVID-19 pandemic, and such costs and expenses may continue to increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future results of operations. In particular, we intend to continue to spend significant amounts to increase our customer base, increase the number and variety of merchandise and services we offer, expand our marketing channels, broaden our operations, develop additional fulfillment centers, hire additional employees and managers, and develop our technology and fulfillment infrastructure. These increased costs, including those related to the costs incurred due to COVID-19 safety and health measures and shipping and fulfillment costs, may adversely affect our operating expenses. Some of our initiatives to generate revenue are new and unproven, and any failure of these initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, we expect to invest in longer-term initiatives, which will likely impact our shorter-term results of operations. We may find that these efforts are more expensive than we currently anticipate, or we may encounter technological and other development delays. We will also face increased compliance costs associated with growth, the expansion of our customer base, and being a public company. Our efforts to grow our business may cost more than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our increased operating expenses or to achieve or maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described in this Risk Factors section, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to achieve and sustain profitability, the value of our business and the price per share of our Class A common stock could decline. 9 Table of Contents Our limited operating history and evolving business make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects, including our revenue growth rate, as well as the risks and challenges we may encounter. Our limited operating history and evolving business make it difficult to evaluate and assess our future prospects, as well as the risks and challenges that we may encounter. Although we launched our first website in 2010 and our first mobile application in 2011, our business has rapidly evolved over time. As a result, our ability to accurately forecast our future results of operations is limited and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth, and to expand our business in existing markets and enter new markets. In addition, we have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Many factors may contribute to a decline in our growth rate, including market saturation, increased competition, slowing demand (especially once the COVID-19 pandemic tapers), the difficulty of capitalizing on growth opportunities, and the maturation of our business, among others. If our growth rate declines, investors perceptions of our business could be adversely affected and the price per share of our Class A common stock could decline. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter. These risks and difficulties include our ability to, among other things: attract, on a cost-effective basis, new customers who purchase merchandise and services from us at similar or higher rates and amounts as compared to existing customers; retain our existing customers and motivate their continued purchases from our apps and websites at rates and amounts consistent with or higher than their historical purchases; encourage customers to expand the categories of merchandise and services they purchase from us; retain and expand our network of suppliers and merchants; expand our fulfillment and logistics infrastructure and related operations; fulfill and deliver customer orders on time and in accordance with customer expectations, which may change over time; increase awareness of our brand; respond to changes in the way customers access and use the Internet and mobile devices; react to challenges from existing and new competitors; expand our business in new and existing markets; avoid interruptions or disruptions in our business; further develop our scalable, high-performance technology and fulfillment infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased usage, as well as the deployment of new features and the sale of new merchandise and services; and hire, integrate, and retain talented personnel. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above and those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, because we have limited historical financial data and our business continues to evolve and expand, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated a business that is not rapidly evolving and growing. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories and evolving businesses that operate in highly regulated and competitive industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents We may experience significant fluctuations in our results of operations. Our revenue and results of operations may fluctuate for a variety of reasons, many of which are beyond our control. These reasons include those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section as well as the following: our ability to attract new and retain existing customers, increase sales to existing customers, and satisfy our customers demands; our ability to offer merchandise and services on favorable terms, manage inventory, and fulfill orders in a timely manner; the introduction or activities of competitive stores, apps, websites, merchandise, or services; the success of our growth and expansion efforts, including investments into new initiatives; variations in our level of merchandise and supplier returns; the extent to which we offer fast and free delivery through Rocket Delivery, continue to offer a compelling value proposition to our customers, and provide additional benefits to our customers; factors affecting our reputation or brand image; the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or other epidemics on our supply chain, operations and facilities, and employees, as well as consumer perception of our response to COVID-19 or other epidemics; the extent to which we finance our current operations and future growth, and the terms of any such financing; the timing, effectiveness, and costs of expansion and upgrades of our systems and infrastructure; the outcomes of legal proceedings and claims, which may include significant monetary damages, injunctive relief, personal liability (including criminal liability), sanctions, and penalties; the extent to which we invest in technology and content, fulfillment, and other expense categories; increases in our temporary or long-term costs such as labor and energy sources, packing supplies, and other goods not for resale; changes in laws, regulations, or other regulatory practices and enforcement in the countries where we operate; the extent to which our services are affected by spyware, viruses, phishing, and other spam emails, denial of service attacks, data theft, computer intrusions, outages, and similar events; and disruptions from natural or man-made disasters, extreme weather, geopolitical events and security issues (including terrorist attacks and armed hostilities), labor or trade disputes, and similar events. Fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations may result in their failure to meet the expectations of analysts or investors, which could cause the price per share of our Class A common stock to decline. In addition, our revenue growth may not be sustainable and our growth rates may decrease. Our revenue and results of operations depend in part on the continued growth of demand for the products and services offered by us or our merchants, and on general economic and business conditions worldwide. A softening of demand, whether caused by changes in customer preferences or a weakening of the Korean or global economies, may adversely affect our revenue or growth rate, which could also cause the price per share of our Class A common stock to decline. We may be unable to accurately forecast our revenue and plan our expenses in the future. Our results of operations are difficult to forecast because they generally depend on, among other things, the volume, timing, and type of purchases made by our customers, all of which are uncertain and subject to change. Additionally, many of our expenses, including those related to our fulfillment operations, are fixed and, as a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenue. Any failure to accurately predict revenue or to adjust our expenses could adversely affect our results of operations in any given quarter, or a series of quarters, which could cause the price per share of our Class A common stock to decline. 11 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry If we fail to timely identify or effectively respond to changing customer preferences and spending patterns, fail to expand the products being purchased by customers, or fail or are unable to obtain or offer appropriate categories of products, our relationship with our customers could be negatively affected, the demand for our products and services could decrease, and our revenue and results of operations may decline. Our future revenue depends on continued demand for the types of goods that we and our merchants list on our apps and websites. The popularity of certain products, such as apparel, beauty, food, and consumer electronics may vary over time due to perceived availability, subjective value, and trends of customers and society in general. A decline in the demand for or popularity of certain products sold through our apps or websites without a corresponding increase in demand for different products that we or our merchants list on our apps or websites could reduce our revenue. In addition, short-lived demand for certain products may temporarily inflate the volume of those products listed on our apps and websites, placing a significant strain on our infrastructure and throughput capacity. These trends may also cause significant fluctuations in our results of operations from period to period. A failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer preferences and spending patterns, an inability to keep adequate inventory of the type of products being purchased by customers, failure to grow and retain the members of our Rocket WOW membership program, or a failure or inability to obtain or offer appropriate categories of products could negatively affect our relationship with customers and the demand for our products and services. Our ability to locate qualified, economically stable suppliers and merchants who satisfy our requirements, and to acquire sufficient amounts of products in a timely and cost-efficient manner is critical to our business. Any failure to develop sourcing relationships with a broad and deep supplier base could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, we offer our customers private-label products that are available through our apps and websites. The sale of private-label products subjects us to unique risks and heightens certain other risks, including potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; potential liability with respect to our commercial relationships with subcontractors with whom we engage to manufacture certain of our private-label products; potential liability for incidents, including, but not limited to, the injuries of our subcontractors employees at manufacturing sites that we do not control; our ability to successfully protect our intellectual property rights and the rights of applicable third parties; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, market, and sell private-label products. If we are unable to successfully implement some or all of our major strategic initiatives in a timely manner, our ability to maintain and improve our market position may be adversely affected. Our strategy is to continue to build on our market position by continuing to implement certain key strategic initiatives, which include the following: building our brand and further expanding our customer base; providing high-quality merchandise and services at attractive prices; focusing on customer satisfaction and our customers loyalty to our apps, websites, and programs, including our Rocket WOW membership program; expanding our product offerings; and enhancing our apps and websites and developing personalization tools to enhance our customers experience with our apps and websites. We may not be successful in implementing any or all of these key strategic initiatives. If we are unable to successfully implement some or all of our key strategic initiatives in an effective and timely manner, our ability to maintain and improve our market position, and our competitive position, brand, and reputation may be harmed, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We have experienced significant growth since our inception and expect our business to continue to grow if we are successful in implementing our key strategic initiatives. The growth of our business has required and will continue to require significant attention of our management and expenditure of resources. To effectively manage our growth, we must successfully implement our operational plans and strategies, improve and expand our infrastructure, and expand, train, and manage our employee and contractor base. For example, we have rapidly increased our employee headcount to support the growth in our business, and we expect to continue to increase our headcount in the foreseeable future. To support our continued growth, we must effectively integrate, develop, and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining our corporate culture. In particular, we intend to continue to make substantial investments to expand our sales and technology personnel, which is challenging due to competition for such personnel. In addition, the growth and expansion of our business and our variety of merchandise and services place significant demands on our management and other employees. For example, in an effort to increase customer engagement, we produce new versions of our apps and websites and communicate to our customers via email, mobile application push communications, and text messages. The continued growth of our business may require significant additional resources to continue these efforts, including increasing the size of our workforce, which may not scale in a cost-effective manner. Similarly, we must effectively manage any retraction in parts of our business. Periodically, for reasons such as changing consumer preferences and other unforeseen circumstances, decisions may be made to discontinue investment in certain parts of our business. Such decisions require management effort to reorganize or reassign employees. In accordance with Korean law, employment contracts generally are not terminable at will unless an employee is deemed to be an employer (e.g., a registered director or an executive member-level employee), and employment and labor-related claims are common. If we fail to effectively manage retractions in our business or to successfully reorganize or reassign employees, our ability to meet our goals and our employee morale, productivity, and retention could suffer, which may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our revenue depends on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on our apps and websites would materially harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Furthermore, we may need to enter into relationships with various strategic partners, websites, and other online service providers and other third parties necessary to support and grow our business. The increased complexity of managing multiple commercial relationships or entering into new relationships could lead to execution problems that could affect current and future revenue and operating margins. Our current and planned systems, procedures and controls, personnel, and third-party relationships may not be adequate to support our future operations. Our failure to manage growth effectively or to enter into additional third-party relationships on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not successfully operate and manage the expansion of our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. We believe that our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure, including strategically located fulfillment centers, logistics centers, and delivery vehicles, coupled with our proprietary technology, is essential to our success. We operate our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure throughout Korea and maintain a single fulfillment center in the United States. We are in the process of obtaining and developing additional fulfillment and delivery infrastructure to increase our storage capacity, reduce delivery times, and further improve our workflow and processes. If we do not expand and operate our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure successfully and efficiently, or there are delays in the expansion of our fulfillment and delivery operations, we could experience excess or insufficient fulfillment and delivery capacity in one or more locations, an increase in costs or impairment charges, or other adverse impacts. For example, we believe that our end-to-end delivery infrastructure, including the ability to control our last-mile delivery logistics, is a key competitive advantage. If our end-to-end delivery infrastructure, including last-mile delivery, is negatively affected in any manner, including, but not limited to, by the introduction of direct competitors with these capabilities or by legislation, legal rulings, or other regulation that may disrupt this service, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be harmed. 13 Table of Contents In addition, if we do not have sufficient fulfillment and delivery capacity, or we experience problems fulfilling and delivering orders in a timely manner, our customers may experience delays in receiving their purchases, which could harm our reputation and our relationship with our customers. We have designed, built, purchased, and/or leased our own fulfillment and delivery infrastructure, in addition to utilizing some third-party delivery resources. Our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure was designed to meet the specific needs of our business. If we continue to add fulfillment and delivery capabilities, add new offerings with different fulfillment or delivery requirements, or change the mix of merchandise that we sell, our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure will become increasingly complex, and operating it will become more challenging. Failure to successfully address such challenges in a cost-effective and timely manner could impair our ability to timely deliver our customers purchases and could harm our reputation and ultimately, our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We anticipate the need to add additional fulfillment and delivery capacity as our business continues to grow. We cannot assure you that we will be able to locate suitable facilities on commercially acceptable terms in accordance with our expansion plans. If we are unable to secure new facilities for the expansion of our fulfillment operations or effectively control expansion-related expenses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we grow faster than we anticipate, we may exceed our fulfillment and delivery capacity, we may experience problems fulfilling or delivering orders in a timely manner, or our customers may experience delays in receiving their purchases, which could harm our reputation and our relationship with our customers, and we may need to increase our capital expenditures more than anticipated and in a shorter time frame than we currently anticipate, which could represent a demand on, or drain of, our financial resources and require additional capital. See the risk factor titled We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. below. Our ability to expand our fulfillment and delivery capacity is dependent upon our ability to secure suitable facilities and recruit and retain qualified employees, Coupang Flex partners (independent delivery partners who have signed up to deliver packages on days and times of their own choosing), Eats Delivery Partners or EDPs (independent food delivery partners), and other workers, and there is no assurance that we will be able to secure such facilities or procure such personnel. Our expansion has also been affected by the spread of COVID-19 and related governmental orders. There have been and there may be future delays or increased costs associated with the spread and impact of COVID-19. Many of the expenses and investments with respect to our fulfillment and delivery capacity are fixed, and any expansion of such fulfillment and delivery infrastructure will require additional investment of capital. We expect to incur higher capital expenditures in the future for our fulfillment and delivery operations as our business continues to grow. We would incur such expenses and make such investments in advance of expected sales, and such expected sales may not occur. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are dependent on the performance of certain members of management and other highly qualified and skilled personnel, and if we are unable to attract, retain, and motivate these and other well-qualified employees, our business could be harmed. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers, other key management team members, and key employees. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team or other key employees resulting from the hiring or departure of these personnel. Any of our executive officers or other key employees could terminate their employment with us at any time, and we cannot be assured of having reasonable prior notice. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees or the failure by our executive team, including any new hires that we may make, to work together effectively and to execute our strategy in a timely manner, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We do not maintain key man life insurance with respect to any members of management or other employees. We intend to hire additional qualified employees to support our business operations and planned expansion. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to recruit, train, and retain qualified personnel. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense worldwide competition for talent and labor, we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain qualified staff or other highly skilled employees that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. Accordingly, such efforts will require significant time, expense, and attention, and new hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity. In addition to hiring new employees, we must continue to focus on developing, motivating, and retaining our best employees, many of whom are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time. Further, even if qualified new employees are hired and achieve individual effectiveness, we may be adversely affected by undue turnover in our employees. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to identify, recruit, and integrate strategic personnel hires, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any loss of members of our senior management team or key personnel could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives and could harm our business and customer relationships. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. In addition, prospective and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, experiences significant volatility, or increases such that prospective employees believe there is limited upside to the value of our equity awards, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain key employees. If we are not able to retain and motivate our current personnel or effectively add and retain employees, our ability to achieve our strategic objectives, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our culture has been critical to our success and if we cannot maintain this culture as we grow, our business could be harmed. We believe that our culture, where the customer is at the beginning and the end in each decision we make, has been critical to our success. We may face a number of challenges that may affect our ability to sustain our corporate culture, including a potential failure to attract and retain employees who embrace and further our culture, any expansion into additional markets, competitive pressures that may divert us from our vision and values, and the integration of new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. If we are not able to maintain our culture as we continue to grow, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Health epidemics, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, have had, and could in the future have, an adverse impact on our business, operations, and the markets and communities in which we, our customers, suppliers, merchants, and advertisers operate. Our business and operations could be adversely affected by health epidemics, including the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, impacting the markets and communities in which we and our customers, suppliers, merchants, and advertisers operate. The COVID-19 pandemic has caused and continues to cause significant disruption to business and financial markets worldwide and has impacted global macroeconomic conditions. The full extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will directly or indirectly impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and cannot be accurately predicted with certainty, and we may be unable to accurately forecast our revenue or financial results, particularly in light of new variants that have emerged and may continue to emerge, subsequent waves of infection, the timing, distribution, rate of public acceptance, and efficacy of vaccines and other treatments, the related impact on consumer confidence and spending, and the effect of governmental regulations imposed in response to the pandemic. There is no guarantee that a future outbreak of this or any other widespread epidemics or pandemics will not occur, or that global economies will recover, all of which could harm our business. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced and may continue to experience disruptions to our operations, including but not limited to attracting and retaining employees and contractors and utilization of our offices and fulfillment and delivery infrastructure, which may negatively impact our ability to fulfill orders in a timely manner, increase costs, harm our reputation, and ultimately, our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we have had to modify our operations and adjust our services and technology. For example, our fulfillment and delivery operations now require implementation of social distancing measures as well as system-wide use of personal protective equipment. We have hired additional personnel and incurred additional costs to implement safety controls in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We have also invested significant resources to design, implement, and maintain technical and operational changes and may continue to do so for an indefinite period of time. Due to the size, scope, and geographically dispersed nature of our operations, the expenses we incur to protect the health and safety of our customers and employees may be higher than similar expenses incurred by companies in other industries. Measures taken across our business operations to address health and safety may not always be sufficient to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Certain employees in our offices, fulfillment centers, and logistics centers have tested positive for COVID-19 despite our best efforts to prevent the spread of COVID-19. We have received governmental inquiries and litigation in Korea with respect to these positive tests and the potential spread of COVID-19 at our locations. Beyond the preventative efforts against the transmission of COVID-19, we have incurred significant additional COVID-19-related costs to provide additional compensation to our employees and certain service providers and deliver products to customers. Therefore, if we were to face additional outbreaks, new variants, or transmission of COVID-19, we would face operational disruptions and incur additional expenses, including assisting customers and employees diagnosed with COVID-19 and further changing health and safety protocols and processes, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents While governmental restrictions imposed to limit the spread of COVID-19 and changing consumer behavior in light of the pandemic led to unprecedented demand for our products and services, demand may moderate over time as governmental restrictions are lifted and consumer mobility increases. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain new suppliers, merchants, advertisers, and customers or maintain the current level of demand for our offerings over the long term, particularly after the effects of the pandemic taper. In addition, the growth in the demand for some products on our apps and websites during the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in temporary shortages of certain products, which could negatively impact our reputation. In response to the spread of COVID-19, we are requiring or have required substantially all of our sales, engineering, product, and general and administrative employees to work remotely on some or all work days to comply with applicable laws and to minimize the risk of transmission of COVID-19. We may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees and customers, including temporary closure of some of our facilities. We cannot guarantee that remote work arrangements will be effective. These arrangements could have a negative impact on our operations, the execution of our business plans, and the productivity and availability of key personnel and other employees necessary to conduct our business. Additionally, our business operations may be disrupted if a significant portion of our workforce is unable to work safely and effectively due to illness, quarantines, government actions, or other restrictions or measures responsive to the pandemic, or if members of senior management are unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time. If a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event were to occur that impacted our applicable employees ability to work remotely, it could cause substantial disruption to our business. Decreased effectiveness and availability of our team could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations due to slow-downs in our sales cycles and recruiting efforts, delays in addressing performance issues, delays in product or technology development, delays and inefficiencies among various operational aspects of our business, including our financial organization, or other decreases in productivity that could seriously harm our business. In addition to the office closures, the COVID-19 pandemic and related restrictions could continue to result in certain of our suppliers, merchants, and advertisers experiencing downturns or uncertainty in their own business operations or revenue, including closure of their operations temporarily, and in some cases permanently, which in turn may cause reductions or delays in their spending and may result in decreased revenue for us. Further, we may decide to postpone, cancel, or modify planned investments in our business in response to changes in our business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which may impact our ability to attract and retain customers and our rate of innovation, either of which could harm our business. In addition, our facilities needs could evolve based on continuing changes and impact on work environments as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may not be able to alter our contractual commitments to accommodate such changes, which could cause us to incur additional costs or otherwise harm our business. The COVID-19 pandemic has also resulted in, and may in the future result in, disruptions to the global financial markets, which could negatively affect our access to capital and ultimately, our liquidity. In addition, a recession or market correction resulting from the continued spread of COVID-19 could have a significant impact on our customers disposable income, which would adversely affect our business. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to evolve, and we will continue to monitor the situation and the effects on our business and operations closely. We do not yet know the full extent of such impacts, particularly if the COVID-19 pandemic continues to persist, if new variants emerge, if there are subsequent waves of infection, along with the adoption and effectiveness of vaccines, and new public health measures are implemented. Given the uncertainty, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact on our future results of operations, cash flows, or financial condition. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Any of the foregoing factors, or other effects of the pandemic or any other epidemic that are not currently foreseeable, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our expansion into new geographic markets and offerings and substantial increase in the number of our offerings may expose us to new and increased challenges and risks. In recent years, we have expanded our offerings, including in consumer electronics, food and grocery, financial services, private-label brands, apparel, and travel, as well as expanded our reach into new geographic markets. Such expansion involves new risks and challenges and may require significant investments. Our lack of familiarity with new markets and new products and services and lack of relevant customer data relating to these new markets or offerings may make it more difficult for us to anticipate customer demand and preferences. We may misjudge customer demand and the potential profitability of a new market, product, or service. We may find it more difficult to inspect and control quality and ensure proper handling, storage, and delivery of new products. We may experience higher return rates on new products, customer complaints about new products and services, and costly liability claims as a result of selling such products and services, any of which would harm our brand and reputation as well as our results of operations. We may need to price aggressively to gain market share or remain competitive in new categories. It may be difficult for us to achieve profitability in the new product or service categories and our profit margin, if any, may be 16 Table of Contents lower than we anticipate, which would adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to recoup our investments in introducing any new product and service categories. We operate in a highly competitive industry and we may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors, which could have a negative impact on the success of our business. The industry in which we operate is intensely competitive and we expect that competition will continue to increase. We currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to customers and merchants, including traditional retailers and merchandisers, such as department stores, discount warehouses, direct retailers, and home-shopping channels. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving, and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. We compete in two-sided markets and must attract both customers as well as merchants to use our apps and websites. Customers who purchase goods and services through us have many alternatives, and merchants have other channels to reach customers. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Online and offline businesses compete with each other, and our competitors include a number of online and offline retailers with greater resources, large user communities, and well-established brands. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service, or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may lead to dissatisfaction among customers and merchants, which could reduce activity on our apps or websites and adversely affect our results of operations. We face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, retailers (including e-commerce retailers) and marketplaces has increased due to, among other factors, improved customer experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times, and more favorable return policies. In addition, certain online and offline businesses may offer goods and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer. If we are unable to change our offerings in ways that reflect the changing demands of offline and online retailers and marketplaces, particularly at expected service levels, or compete effectively with and adapt to changes in larger retail businesses, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Competitors may also be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies, and devote more resources to offline shopping venues, websites, mobile applications, and systems development than we can. In addition, competitors may be able to innovate faster and more efficiently, and new technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Some of our competitors control other products and services that are important to our success, including credit card interchange, Internet search, and mobile operating systems. Such competitors could utilize complementary aspects of their businesses in order to provide a better shopping experience or make it difficult for customers to utilize our apps or websites, or change pricing, availability, or the terms or operation of service related to their products and services in a manner that impacts our competitive offerings. If we are unable to use or adapt to operational changes in such services, we may face higher costs for such services, encounter integration or technological barriers, or lose customers, which could cause our business, financial condition, and results of operations to be adversely affected. In addition, certain manufacturers may limit or cease distribution of their products through online channels, such as our apps or websites. Manufacturers may attempt to use contractual obligations or existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit e-commerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may also attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors and suppliers from selling on our apps, websites, or on the Internet generally, or drive distributors and suppliers to sell at prices that would make us less competitive. The adoption by manufacturers of policies, or their use of laws or regulations, in each case discouraging or restricting the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force merchants to limit or stop selling certain products on our apps or websites, which could adversely affect our results of operations and result in loss of market share and diminished value of our brand. Many of our competitors have, and potential competitors may have, competitive advantages such as longer operating histories, more experience in implementing their business plan and strategy, better brand recognition, popular offline locations, greater negotiating leverage, established supply relationships, significantly greater financial, marketing, and other resources. Our competitors may undertake aggressive marketing campaigns to enhance their brand name and increase the volume of business conducted through their stores or websites and make extensive investments to improve their stores or network and system infrastructure, including website design and logistics network enhancements. Our inability to adequately address these and other competitive pressures may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Any harm to our brand or reputation may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We believe that the recognition and reputation of our brand among our customers, merchants, suppliers, and our workforce has contributed to the growth and success of our business. Maintaining and enhancing the recognition and reputation of our brand is critical to our business and competitiveness. Heightened regulatory and public concerns over operation of the business, labor and employment, consumer protection, and consumer safety issues, among other issues, may subject us to additional legal and reputational risks and increased scrutiny. Further, heightened public attention regarding worker safety and occupational health may subject us to regulatory and media scrutiny. In addition, changes in our services or policies have resulted, and could result, in objections by members of the public, customers, suppliers, merchants and various other groups. From time to time, these objections or allegations, regardless of their veracity, may result in customer dissatisfaction, which could result in government inquiries or substantial harm to our brand, reputation, and prospects. A public perception that non-authentic, counterfeit, or defective goods are sold on our apps and websites or that we or our merchants do not provide satisfactory customer service, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents, could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand, undermine the trust and credibility we have established, and have a negative impact on our ability to attract new customers or retain our current customers. If we are unable to maintain our reputation, enhance our brand recognition, or increase positive awareness of our apps, websites, products, and services, as well as products sold by merchants through our online marketplace, it may be difficult to maintain and grow our customer base, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We are subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing goods from countries outside of Korea. A portion of our sales are dependent on our ability to import finished goods from other countries into Korea. Substantially all of our import operations are subject to customs requirements. The countries from which some of our products are manufactured or exported, or into which our products are imported, may from time to time impose quotas, duties, tariffs, or other restrictions on imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. Changes in Korea, China, the United States, and other foreign government policies regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, may negatively impact our business. Imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase our cost of sales. Adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or failure by our suppliers to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm our business. Our operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations, which may impose requirements that adversely affect our business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country. Our ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather, or increased security requirements in Korea and other countries. These issues could delay importation of products or require us to locate alternative ports or transportation or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. These alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher costs, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial condition. If our ability to import goods from overseas is negatively impacted by domestic or international trade regulations (including any future customs requirements, tariffs, and quotas implemented in Korea), our ability to maintain a diverse selection of products for our customers and to be able to timely deliver products consistent with our customers expectations could be harmed, which could negatively impact our future revenue and growth. We operate in a rapidly changing industry and our business model is continuing to evolve, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. The retail industry in which we operate is characterized by rapidly changing regulatory requirements and industry standards and shifting consumer demands. In addition, our business model continues to evolve and we are continuously evaluating our products and services. As a result of our evolving industry and business model, our future results are uncertain and subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth, expand our business in existing markets, and enter new markets. In addition, we have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods. You should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior period as an indication of our future performance. Many factors may lead to a decline in our growth rate, including increased competition, slowing demand, a failure by us to continue capitalizing on growth opportunities, higher market penetration, and the maturation of our business, and others, including as discussed elsewhere in this 18 Table of Contents Risk Factors section. If we fail to continue to grow, our business could be adversely affected and the price per share of our Class A common stock could decline. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies that operate in evolving industries subject to increasing regulation. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to continue to innovate or if we fail to adapt to changes in our industry, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Our industry is characterized by rapidly changing technology, new mobile applications and protocols, new products and services, new media and entertainment content, including user-generated content, and changing consumer demands and trends. Furthermore, our competitors are continuously developing innovations in personalized search and recommendation, online and offline shopping and marketing, communications, social networking, entertainment, logistics, and other services to enhance the customer experience. Our financial performance depends on our ability to identify, originate, and define retail trends, as well as to anticipate, gauge, and react to changing customer preferences in a timely manner, including seasonal trends in customer spending. As a result, we continue to invest significant resources in our technology, infrastructure, research and development, and other areas in order to enhance our business and operations, as well as to explore new growth strategies and geographies and introduce new high-quality products and services. If we offer new merchandise or services that are not accepted by our customers, we may make fewer sales and our revenue may fall short of expectations, our brand and reputation could be adversely affected, and we may incur expenses that are not offset by revenue. We may make substantial investments in such new categories and new markets in anticipation of future revenue. If the launch of a new category or a new geography requires greater investment than we expect, if we are unable to attract suppliers and merchants that produce sufficient high-quality, value-oriented merchandise and services, or if the revenue generated from sales of a new item of merchandise or service grows more slowly or produces lower gross profit than we expect, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Expansion of our offerings may also strain our management and operational resources. We may also face greater competition in specific categories from e-commerce and traditional retailers that are more focused on such categories. It may be difficult to differentiate our offering from other competitors as we offer additional categories of merchandise and services, and our customers may have additional considerations in deciding whether or not to purchase these additional offerings. In addition, the relative profitability, if any, of new categories of merchandise or services may be lower than we have experienced historically, and we may not generate sufficient revenue from sales of these new items to recoup our investments in them. Our investments in innovations and new technologies, which may be significant, may not increase our competitiveness or generate financial returns in the short term, or at all, and we may not be successful in adopting and implementing new technologies. Our investments and endeavors to develop new growth initiatives and technologies may be hindered by regulatory scrutiny and limitations. The changes and developments taking place in our industry may also require us to re-evaluate our business model and adopt significant changes to our long-term strategies and business plans. Any failure to innovate and adapt to these changes and developments would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Even if we timely innovate and adopt changes in our strategies and plans, we may nevertheless fail to realize the intended benefits of these changes or even experience reduced revenue as a result. If we fail to retain existing suppliers or merchants or to add new suppliers or merchants, or if our existing suppliers or merchants fail to supply high-quality and compliant merchandise in a timely manner, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. We depend on our ability to attract and retain merchants that offer high-quality merchandise and services to our customers at attractive prices and in a timely manner to attract new customers and to keep our existing customers engaged and purchasing from our apps and websites. Similarly, we also must attract and retain suppliers to supply merchandise to us for our owned-inventory selection. We must continue to attract and retain suppliers and merchants in order to increase revenue and achieve profitability. We may experience supplier or merchant attrition in the ordinary course of business, which could lead to a decrease in the volume and/or selection of merchandise available to our customers, resulting in loss of customers to our competitors. Even if we identify new suppliers, we may not be able to purchase desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us, and merchandise from alternative sources may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those from existing suppliers. Similarly, new merchants may not offer the same selection or value to our customers. In addition, we may have disputes with suppliers and 19 Table of Contents merchants with respect to their compliance with our quality control or other policies and measures and the penalties imposed by us for violation of these policies or measures from time to time, which may cause them to cease doing business with us. Any complaints from merchants may in turn result in a negative impact on our brand and reputation. If we experience significant supplier or merchant attrition, or if we are unable to attract new suppliers or merchants, our revenue and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our inability to purchase suitable merchandise on acceptable terms or to source new suppliers and merchants could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Efforts to increase advertising revenue may impact our sales or results of operations. Growth in our advertising revenue depends on our ability to continue to develop and offer effective tools for advertisers. New advertising formats that take up more space on our apps and websites may impact customer satisfaction, which could impact our sales. As the advertising market generates and develops new concepts and technology, we may incur additional costs to implement more effective products and tools. Continuing to develop and improve these products and tools may require significant time and resources and additional investment. Additionally, changes to our advertising policies and data privacy practices, as well as changes to other companies advertising and/or data privacy practices have in the past, and may in the future, affect the advertising that we are able to provide, which could harm our business. If we cannot continue to develop and improve our advertising products and tools in a timely fashion, or if our advertising products and tools are not well received by advertisers or customers, our revenue or sales could be adversely affected. Inventory risks may adversely affect our results of operations. We are exposed to inventory risks that may adversely affect our results of operations because of seasonality, new product launches, quick changes in product cycles and pricing, defective products, changes in customer demand and spending patterns, changes in customer tastes with respect to our products, spoilage, and other factors. We strive to predict these trends, as overstocking or understocking products we sell could lead to lower sales, missed opportunities, and excessive markdowns, each of which could have a material impact on our business and results of operations. Moreover, once we launch a new product, it may be difficult to determine appropriate product selection and accurately forecast demand, which could increase our inventory risk, resulting in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The seasonality of our business affects our quarterly results and places an increased strain on our operations. We have historically experienced seasonal fluctuations in our sales, with higher sales volumes associated with Christmas, New Year, Lunar New Year, and Chuseok. Some of these holidays are on the lunar calendar, and thus the associated sales do not always fall in the same quarterly period. We expect to continue to experience seasonal trends in our business, making results of operations variable from quarter to quarter. This variability makes it difficult to predict sales and can result in significant fluctuations in our revenue between periods. See Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Any failure to stock or restock popular products in sufficient amounts or to develop sufficient fulfillment and delivery capacity to meet customer demand could adversely affect our results of operations. When we overstock products, we may be required to take significant inventory markdowns or write-offs and incur commitment costs, which could result in lower margins and higher labor costs as a percentage of sales, which would harm our financial performance. We may also experience increases in our fulfillment and logistics costs due to promotions, split-shipments, changes to our fulfillment and logistics network, and other arrangements necessary to ensure timely delivery during times of high order volume. If too many customers access our apps or websites within a short period of time due to increased demand, we may experience system interruptions that make our apps or websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we offer or sell and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, we may be unable to adequately staff our fulfillment and delivery network, including our Coupang Flex partners, EDPs, and customer service centers during these peak periods, which may impact our ability to satisfy seasonal or peak demand. Risks related to our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure described above in the risk factor titled If we do not successfully operate and manage the expansion of our fulfillment and delivery infrastructure, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. are magnified during the holiday seasons. 20 Table of Contents We may expand our operations into new geographic markets, which would present new challenges and which may prove unsuccessful and adversely affect our business. We have recently expanded our operations into other Asia Pacific countries where we offer direct on-demand delivery for a limited selection of items. We may further expand our operations into new geographic markets, which would present new challenges and which may prove unsuccessful and adversely affect our business. Further expansion into additional markets would require significant management attention and resources and would require us to localize our offerings to conform to a wide variety of local cultures, business practices, laws, regulations, and policies. Such local cultures, business practices, laws, regulations, and policies in other countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our business model. We may be competing with local and international companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. If we are not successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenue from such international operations, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Acquisitions, strategic investments, partnerships, or alliances could be difficult to identify, pose integration challenges, divert the attention of management, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our products and services and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands, and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may choose to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses and technologies rather than through organic growth. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Further, once we have completed an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully integrate the acquired business. We face additional risks in connection with acquisitions, including that: an acquisition may negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations because it may require us to incur charges or assume substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by stockholders and third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisition; we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel, or operations of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses, and distract our management; an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from us or the acquired company; we may encounter difficulties in selling or utilizing any acquired products or services, or we may be unable to do so successfully or at all; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions would limit other potential uses for our cash; if we incur debt to fund an acquisition, such debt may subject us to material restrictions on our ability to conduct our business, or require us to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants which may adversely affect our ability to conduct our business; and if we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease or losses per share may increase. The occurrence of any of these foregoing risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Our business depends on the continued growth of online commerce and the increased acceptance of online transactions by potential customers. Online commerce is still developing in the markets in which we operate. Our future revenue depends substantially on our customers, suppliers, merchants, and advertisers accepting the Internet as a way to conduct commerce, to purchase goods and services, and to carry out financial transactions. For us to grow our customer base successfully, more customers, merchants, and suppliers must accept and adopt new ways of conducting business and exchanging information, including through mobile devices. Further, service interruptions in Internet access could prevent customers from accessing our apps or websites and placing orders, and frequent interruptions could discourage customers from using our apps or websites, which could cause us to lose customers and harm our results of operations. In addition, we have no control over the costs of the services provided by the telecommunications operators. For more, see the risk factor titled Our business depends on network and mobile infrastructure, third-party data center hosting facilities, other third-party providers, and our ability to maintain and scale our technology. Any significant interruptions or delays in service on our apps or websites or any undetected errors or design faults could result in limited capacity, reduced demand, processing delays, and loss of customers, suppliers, or merchants. Acceptance and use of the Internet are critical to our growth and the occurrence of any one or more of the above challenges could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If the mobile solutions available to our merchants and customers are not effective, the use of our apps, websites, and marketplaces could decline. Purchases made on mobile devices by customers have increased significantly in recent years. Our suppliers and merchants are also increasingly using mobile devices to operate their businesses on our apps and websites. If we are unable to deliver a rewarding experience on mobile devices, our ability and the ability of our merchants to manage and scale our respective businesses may be harmed and, consequently, our business may suffer. As new mobile devices and operating systems are released, we may encounter problems in developing or supporting applications for them. In addition, supporting new devices and mobile device operating systems may require substantial time and resources. The success of our mobile applications could also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as: actions taken by providers of mobile operating systems or mobile application download stores unfavorable treatment received by our mobile applications, especially as compared to competing applications, such as the placement of our mobile applications in a mobile application download store increased costs to distribute or use our mobile applications or changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile websites or mobile applications or that give preferential treatment to competitive products. If merchants and customers encounter difficulty accessing or using our apps or websites on their mobile devices, or if they choose not to use our apps or websites on their mobile devices, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent activities on our apps or websites would increase our fraud losses and harm our business and could severely diminish merchant and customer confidence in and use of our services. We face risks with respect to fraudulent activities on our apps or websites and periodically receive complaints from customers who assert they have not received the goods they purchased or that goods they received were fraudulent, from merchants who may not have received payment for goods that were purchased, or from manufacturers or others who assert that their intellectual property is being infringed. Although we have implemented measures to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activities, combat bad customer experiences, and increase customer satisfaction, including encouraging reporting of concerns, gating and monitoring higher-risk activities, evaluating merchants on the basis of their transaction history, and restricting or suspending some merchants, we cannot assure you that these measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improving overall satisfaction among merchants and customers. We will need to evolve to combat fraudulent activities as they develop. Any failure to so evolve could 22 Table of Contents result in loss of customer trust. At the same time, the implementation of additional measures to address fraud could negatively affect the attractiveness of our offerings to customers and merchants, or create friction in our customers experience. We rely on Coupang Pay to conduct a substantial amount of the payment processing across our business. If Coupang Pays services were limited, restricted, curtailed, or degraded in any way, or become unavailable to us or our customers for any reason, our business may be adversely affected. Coupang Pay, our digital financial services offering, provides our customers with convenient payment processing. These services are critical to our business. We rely on the convenience and ease of use that Coupang Pay provides to our customers and merchants. If the quality, utility, convenience, or attractiveness of Coupang Pays services declines for any reason, the attractiveness of our offerings to customers and merchants could be harmed. Coupang Pay is subject to a number of risks, if they were to materialize, that could materially and adversely affect its ability to provide payment processing services to us, including, but not limited to: dissatisfaction with Coupang Pays services or lower use of Coupang Pay by customers and merchants increasing competition, including from other established companies, payment service providers, and companies engaged in other financial technology services changes to rules or practices applicable to payment systems that link to Coupang Pay breach of customers privacy and concerns over the use and security of information collected from customers and any related negative publicity or liability relating thereto service outages, system failures, or failure to effectively scale the system to handle large and growing transaction volumes increasing costs to Coupang Pay, including fees charged by banks to process transactions through Coupang Pay, which would also increase our cost of revenue negative news about and social media coverage on Coupang Pay, its business, its service offerings, or matters relating to Coupang Pays data security and privacy and failure to manage customer funds accurately or loss of customer funds, whether due to employee fraud, security breaches, technical errors, or otherwise. Coupang Pays services are highly regulated. Coupang Pay is required to comply with numerous complex and evolving laws, rules, and regulations, particularly in the areas of online and mobile payment services. In addition, as Coupang Pay expands the type and reach of its services within Korea and into international markets, it will become subject to additional legal and regulatory risks and scrutiny. Increases in food, energy, labor, and other costs could adversely affect our results of operations. Factors such as inflation, increased food costs, increased labor and employee benefit costs, increased rental costs, and increased energy costs may increase our operating costs and those of our suppliers and independent contractors. Many of the factors affecting suppliers and independent contractors are beyond the control of these parties. In many cases, these increased costs may cause suppliers and independent contractors to spend less time providing services to our customers or to seek alternative sources of income. Likewise, these increased costs may cause suppliers and independent contractors to pass costs on to us and our customers by increasing prices, which would likely cause order volume to decline, and may cause suppliers or independent contractors to cease operations altogether. We rely on our merchants to provide a fulfilling experience to our customers. Our marketplace provides many small- and medium-sized businesses with access to customers across Korea. Aggregating their products in one convenient forum provides convenience to customers and an increased business opportunity to merchants. We have policies and procedures to protect both merchants and customers on our marketplace. However, we do not control the merchants, who are independent, third-party businesses. In most cases, the merchants provide fulfillment and arrange for third-party delivery of the orders placed by our customers. 23 Table of Contents A small portion of customers complain to us about their experience with our merchants. For example, customers may report that they have not received the items that they purchased, that the items received were not as represented by a merchant, or that a merchant has not been responsive to their questions or complaints. We have customer service resources to process such complaints, but we cannot guarantee that these resources have or will resolve all concerns. Similarly, we occasionally identify merchants who are unable to fulfill orders within a timeframe or in a manner consistent with customer expectations. Negative publicity and sentiment generated as a result of these types of complaints or any associated enforcement action taken against merchants could reduce our ability to attract and retain our merchants and customers or damage our reputation. A perception that our levels of responsiveness and support for our merchants and customers are inadequate could have similar results. In some situations, we may choose to reimburse our customers for their purchases, but we may not be able to recover the funds we expend for those reimbursements. Although we focus on enhancing customer service, our efforts may be unsuccessful and our merchants and customers may be disappointed in their experience and not return. Anything that prevents the timely processing of orders or delivery of goods to our customers could harm our merchants. Service interruptions and delivery delays may be caused by events that are beyond the control of our merchants, such as transportation disruptions, natural disasters, inclement weather, (including as a result of climate change), terrorism, public health crises, or political unrest. Additionally, disruptions in the operations of a substantial number of our merchants could also result in negative experiences for a substantial number of our customers, which could harm our reputation and brand. If our customers have a negative experience in the purchase of these products, whether due to quality or timing of delivery, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Changes to our customer satisfaction program could increase our expenses. Our customer satisfaction program protects customers from fraudulent transactions, as well as if they do not receive the items ordered or if the items received are significantly different from their descriptions. The risk of loss from our customer satisfaction program is specific to individual customers and transactions, and may also be impacted by modifications to this program resulting from changes in regulatory requirements, or changes that we decide to implement, such as expanding the scope of transactions covered. Increases in our expenses, including as a result of changes to our customer satisfaction program, could negatively impact our business. We are subject to payment-related risks, and if payment processors are unwilling or unable to provide us with payment processing services or impose onerous requirements on us in order to access their services, or if they increase the fees they charge us for these services, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We accept payments using a variety of methods, including credit and debit cards, money transfers, and Coupang Pay. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay bank interchange and other fees. These fees may increase over time, which would increase our operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We use third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit and debit cards. Our business may be disrupted for an extended period of time if any of these companies becomes unwilling or unable to provide these services to us. We are also subject to payment card association operating rules, certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and/or lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business could be harmed. Moreover, although the payment gateways we use are contractually obligated to indemnify us with respect to liability arising from fraudulent payment transactions, if such fraudulent transactions are related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they could potentially result in our losing the right to accept credit cards for payment. If any of these events were to occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Our business depends on network and mobile infrastructure, third-party data center hosting facilities, other third-party providers, and our ability to maintain and scale our technology. Any significant interruptions or delays in service on our apps or websites or any undetected errors or design faults could result in limited capacity, reduced demand, processing delays, and loss of customers, suppliers, or merchants. A key element of our strategy is to generate a high volume of traffic on, and use of, our apps and websites. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain, and serve our customers are dependent upon the reliable performance of our apps and websites and the underlying network infrastructure. As our customer base and the amount of information shared on our apps and websites continue to grow, we will need an increasing amount of network capacity and computing power. We have spent and expect to continue to spend substantial amounts on data centers and equipment and related network infrastructure to handle the traffic on our apps and websites. The operation of these systems is complex and could result in operational failures. In the event that the volume of traffic of our customers exceeds the capacity of our current network infrastructure or in the event that our customer base or the amount of traffic on our apps and websites grows more quickly than anticipated, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to enhance the underlying network infrastructure. Interruptions or delays in these systems, whether due to system failures, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, undetected errors, design faults, or other unexpected events or causes, could affect the security or availability of our apps and websites and prevent our customers from accessing our apps and websites. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our products and services. In addition, the costs and complexities involved in expanding and upgrading our systems may prevent us from doing so in a timely manner and may prevent us from adequately meeting the demand placed on our systems. Any interruption or inadequacy that causes performance issues or interruptions in the availability of our apps or websites could reduce customer satisfaction and result in a reduction in the number of customers purchasing our products and services. We depend on the development and maintenance of the Internet and mobile infrastructure. This includes maintenance of reliable Internet and mobile infrastructure with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet and mobile access. We also use and rely on services from other third parties, such as our telecommunications services and credit card processors, and those services may be subject to outages and interruptions that are not within our control. Failures by our telecommunications providers may interrupt our ability to provide phone support to our customers and distributed denial-of-service attacks directed at our telecommunication service providers could prevent customers from accessing our apps or websites. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future experience down periods where our third-party credit card processors are unable to process the online payments of our customers, disrupting our ability to receive customer orders. Our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected if for any reason the reliability of our Internet, telecommunications, payment systems, and mobile infrastructure is compromised. We offer our products through our apps and websites using the data centers of Amazon Web Services ("AWS"), a provider of cloud infrastructure services. We rely on the Internet to communicate with our customers and merchants and, accordingly, depend on the continuous, reliable, and secure operation of Internet servers, related hardware and software, and network infrastructure. Our operations depend on protecting the virtual cloud infrastructure hosted in AWS and its configuration, architecture, and interconnection specifications, as well as the information stored in these virtual data centers and which third-party Internet service providers transmit. Furthermore, we have no physical access or control over the services provided by AWS and we cannot quickly or easily switch our operations to another third-party cloud infrastructure service provider. A prolonged AWS service disruption affecting our apps or websites could damage our reputation with current and potential customers, expose us to liability, cause us to lose customers, or otherwise harm our business. We may also incur significant costs in connection with switching to or using alternative cloud services or taking other actions in preparation for, or in reaction to, events that impact our ability to use AWS services. Damage or interruptions to these data centers could harm our business. Moreover, negative publicity arising from these types of disruptions could damage our reputation and may adversely impact use of our apps and websites. AWS enables us to access and use its service offerings in varying amounts and sizes, and across multiple regions. AWS provides us with cloud infrastructure services pursuant to an agreement that continues until terminated by either party. AWS may terminate the agreement for any reason by providing us with at least two years notice. AWS may also terminate the agreement for cause upon 30 days notice, which, in certain instances, is subject to our right to issue an escalation notice, if (i) we are in material breach of the agreement and the material breach remains uncured for a period of 30 days from receipt of notice of such breach, (ii) our use of the service offerings under the agreement (a) poses a security risk to the AWS service offerings or any third party, (b) risks adversely impacting AWS systems, the AWS service offerings, or the systems or content of any other AWS customer, or (c) risks subjecting AWS or its affiliates to liability, and in each case, such acts or omissions that are curable are not cured within such 30 day period, (iii) we or our end users are not in compliance with the AWS acceptable use policy or the licensing terms and restrictions set out in the agreement, and such acts or omissions that are curable are not cured within such 30 25 Table of Contents day period, (iv) we fail to resolve a dispute involving payment of fees, and the disputed amount is not paid within a defined escalation period, except that AWS must first use commercially reasonable efforts to complete a dispute resolution process before terminating the agreement under such provision, and (v) in order to comply with applicable law or binding orders of governmental entities. AWS may also discontinue a service offering that it makes generally available to its customers by providing us with at least 12 months prior notice, except that AWS is not obligated to provide such notice if the discontinuation is necessary to address an emergency or threat to the security or integrity of AWS, respond to claims, litigation, or loss of license rights related to third-party intellectual property rights, or to comply with law or the requests of a government entity. AWS agrees that it will not make any such discontinuation in a manner that applies only to us, and not to the other AWS customers generally or to a subset of AWS customers. Termination or suspension of the AWS agreement or the underlying service offerings may harm our ability to access data centers we need to host our apps and websites or to do so on similar terms as those we have with AWS. We also rely on e-mail service providers, bandwidth providers, Internet service providers, and mobile networks to deliver e-mail and push communications to customers and to allow customers to access our apps and websites. Any damage to, or failure of, our systems or the systems of our third-party data centers or our other third-party providers could result in interruptions to the availability or functionality of our apps and websites. As a result, we could lose customer data and miss order fulfillment deadlines, which could result in decreased sales, increased overhead costs, excess inventory, and product shortages. If for any reason our arrangements with our data centers or third-party providers are terminated or interrupted, such termination or interruption could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We exercise little control over these providers, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities, technology, services, and support. In addition, the failure of our third-party data centers or any other third-party providers to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruption in the availability or functionality of our apps and websites. The satisfactory performance, reliability, and availability of our apps, websites, transaction processing systems, and technology infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers, as well as to maintain adequate customer service levels. Our revenue depends on the number of customers who shop on our apps and websites and the volume of orders that we can handle. Unavailability of our apps or websites or reduced order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of goods sold and could also materially and adversely affect customer perception of our brand. Any slowdown or failure of our apps, websites, or the underlying technology infrastructure could harm our business, reputation, and ability to attract, retain, and serve our customers. The occurrence of a natural disaster, power loss, telecommunications failure, data loss, computer virus, an act of terrorism, cyberattack, vandalism or sabotage, act of war or any similar event, or a decision to close our third-party data centers on which we normally operate or the facilities of any other third-party provider without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our apps and websites. If a natural disaster, pandemic, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, blackout, or other unforeseen event were to occur that disrupted the ability to obtain an Internet connection, we may experience a slowdown or delay in our operations. In addition, certain of our hardware, including data servers, are located at an offsite data center, and certain other equipment is located within our headquarters. Such infrastructure systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption as a result of war, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, human error, and other similar events. While we have some limited disaster recovery arrangements in place, our preparations may not be adequate to account for disasters or similar events that may occur in the future and may not effectively permit us to continue operating in the event of any problems with respect to our systems or those of our third-party data centers or any other third-party facilities. Our disaster recovery and data redundancy plans may be inadequate, and our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us for the losses that could occur. If any such event were to occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Our business could be disrupted by catastrophic occurrences and similar events. Our business and the infrastructure on which our business relies is vulnerable to damage or interruption from catastrophic occurrences, such as earthquakes, floods, fires, extreme weather events (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), power loss, telecommunication failures, criminal acts, sabotage, other intentional acts of violence, vandalism and misconduct, war, civil unrest, terrorist attacks, geopolitical events, including those related to hostilities between North Korea and Korea, disease, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and similar events. For example, in June 2021, there was a fire at our Deokpyeong fulfillment center which caused extensive damage to our fulfillment center. In this case, it took a total of six days for the fire to be extinguished, and the products stored at the fulfillment center were destroyed with the fire, which resulted in unexpected sudden damage to the facilities and equipment of the fulfillment center, damage to the inventory, and delay in delivery. Our Korean corporate offices and certain of the data centers in which we operate are located in regions known for seismic activity. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our facilities or the facilities of our cloud providers could result in disruptions, outages, and other performance and quality problems. Moreover, the frequency and intensity of weather events related to climate change are increasing, which could increase the likelihood and severity of such disasters as well as related damage and business interruption. If we are unable to develop adequate plans to ensure that our business functions continue to operate during and after a disaster and to execute successfully on those plans in the event of a disaster or emergency, our business would be seriously harmed. We may require additional capital to support the growth of our business, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity and debt financings and revenue generated from our business. We cannot be certain when or if our operations will generate sufficient cash to fully fund our ongoing operations or the growth of our business. We intend to continue to make investments to support the development of our various apps and websites and expansion of our commercial offerings, and will require additional funds for such development and expansion. We may need additional funding for marketing expenses and to develop and expand sales resources, develop new features or enhance our marketplace or other offerings, improve our operating infrastructure, or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we might need or may want to engage in future equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to develop our apps and websites, support our business growth and respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. The terms of any additional debt we may incur in the future could restrict our ability to effectively conduct our operations. Furthermore, if we raise capital through the issuance of additional equity securities, the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our Class A common stock. Because our decision to raise additional capital will depend on numerous considerations, including factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing, or nature of any future debt or equity financings, or terms on which any such financings may be completed. Restrictions in our new revolving credit facility could adversely affect our operating flexibility. In February 2021, we entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility. The new revolving credit facility limits our ability to, among other things: incur or guarantee additional debt; make certain investments and acquisitions; make certain restricted payments and prepayments of certain indebtedness; incur certain liens or permit them to exist; and make fundamental changes and dispositions (including dispositions of equity interests of any subsidiary guarantors). 27 Table of Contents The new revolving credit facility also contains covenants requiring us to maintain certain financial ratios. In addition, the new revolving credit facility is guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain material restricted subsidiaries of Coupang, Inc. (including Coupang Corp.), subject to customary exceptions. The provisions of our new revolving credit facility may affect our ability to obtain future financing and to pursue attractive business opportunities and our flexibility in planning for, and reacting to, changes in business conditions. As a result, restrictions in our new revolving credit facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, a failure to comply with the provisions of our new revolving credit facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. If the payment of outstanding amounts under our new revolving credit facility is accelerated, our assets may be insufficient to repay such amounts in full, and our common stockholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. Please see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources. We have identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if our remediation of such material weaknesses is not effective, or if we experience additional material weaknesses or otherwise fail to design and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, our ability to timely and accurately report our financial condition and results of operations in compliance with reporting requirements applicable for public companies in the United States could be impaired, which may adversely affect investor confidence in us and, as a result, the value of our Class A common stock. As a public company, we are required to maintain internal control over financial reporting and to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Beginning with our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2022, we will be required to provide a management report on internal control over financial reporting, as well as an attestation of our independent registered public accounting firm to comply with the SECs rules implementing Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. In 2019, we identified certain material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. In the course of preparing our consolidated financial statements for 2019, we identified material weaknesses in the design and effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting related to a lack of appropriately designed inventory processes and systems, inadequate review controls over the classification of certain proceeds received from vendors, and inadequate review of the accounting conclusions relating to our convertible notes. These weaknesses resulted in material adjustments to our 2018 consolidated financial statements. During 2020, we completed our remediation efforts related to these material weaknesses and concluded that these material weaknesses no longer existed as of December 31, 2020. Our completion of the remediation of these material weaknesses does not provide assurance that the remediation or other controls will continue to operate effectively in the future. Additionally, as part of our readiness efforts in 2020 for future compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we commenced the process of performing risk assessments, documenting our processes, performing evaluations, and enhancing our internal control where appropriate. In the course of this process, we also identified certain additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting relating to (i) the design and effectiveness of information technology general controls, (ii) inadequate segregation of duties, and (iii) inadequate internal control over the timely preparation and review of account reconciliations. We have concluded that these material weaknesses arose because we did not have sufficient qualified accounting resources, formalized processes, and policies necessary to satisfy the accounting and financial reporting requirements of a public company. Following review of these issues and their effect on our consolidated financial statements, we have determined that these material weaknesses did not result in material adjustments to our 2019, 2020 and 2021 consolidated financial statements. We are actively engaged in the remediation of each of the outstanding material weaknesses, including utilizing the assistance of outside advisors where appropriate, through the performance of the following actions, including: (i) continuing to hire qualified finance and IT employees with appropriate skills and public company experience, (ii) providing additional training for our personnel on internal control over financial reporting, (iii) implementing new and enhancing existing processes and policies, (iv) implementing processes and controls to better identify and manage segregation of duties, and (v) implementing and enhancing information technology processes and internal control. 28 Table of Contents Our remediation efforts of these outstanding material weaknesses are ongoing. We cannot assure you that the measures we have taken to date, and actions we may take in the future, will be sufficient to remediate the internal control deficiencies that led to our material weaknesses, that the material weaknesses will be remediated on a timely basis, or that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If the steps we take do not remediate the outstanding material weaknesses in a timely manner, there could continue to be a possibility that these control deficiencies or others could result in a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements. Further, our current internal control over financial reporting and any additional internal control over financial reporting that we develop may become inadequate because of changes in conditions in our business. Additionally, weaknesses in our disclosure