Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following section discusses financial condition and results of operations of Coursera, Inc. and its subsidiaries (Coursera, the Company,we,us, or our) and should be read in conjunction with our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the related notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this report and together with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes and the discussions under the heading Managements Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024, which was filed with the SEC on February 24, 2025 (Form 10-K). This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (Form 10-Q) contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements in this report other than statements of historical fact, including statements identified by words such as accelerate, anticipate, believe, can, continue, could, demand, design, estimate, expand, expect, intend, may, might, mission, need, objective, ongoing, outlook, plan, potential, predict, project, should, target, will, would, or the negative of these terms, or similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about: trends and expectations for growth in the higher education and online education markets; the acceptance, adoption, and growth of online learning and credentialing; market acceptance and demand for our platform; the potential benefits of our solutions to learners and educator partners; anticipated launch dates of new educator partner programs; our business model; our expectations of our future financial performance, including revenue, expenses, and profitability; our ability to successfully develop, launch, maintain, and scale new programs, offerings, and features, including artificial intelligence (AI); our ability to expand our platforms content and credentialing programs; our ability to manage or sustain our growth and to effectively expand our global customer base and operations; our ability to acquire new educator partners and expand program offerings with existing educator partners; our ability to acquire prospective learners and to affect or increase learner enrollment, revenue, and retention; our growth strategies, plans, objectives, and goals; our ability to successfully expand our international operations; our ability to compete and expectations about the future competitive landscape; our ability to attract and retain key employees; the scalability of our platform and operations; our ability to develop and protect our brand; the size of our addressable markets, market share, and market trends; the affordability and convenience of our platform; our ability to obtain, maintain, protect, and enforce our intellectual property (IP) and proprietary rights and successfully defend against claims of infringement, misappropriation, or other violations of third-party IP; our anticipated future capital requirements, including the availability of capital to grow our business; our ability to successfully defend, settle, or otherwise resolve any current or future legal proceedings brought against us; our ability to implement and maintain effective policies, procedures, and internal controls; our ability to comply with potential changes in laws and regulations applicable to us or our educator partners; 19 Table of Contents our expense reduction initiatives and their anticipated timing and impact; the amount of time for which we expect our cash balances and other available financial resources to be sufficient to fund our operations; our contractual obligations and commitments; the anticipated utility of our non-GAAP financial measures and key business metrics; and our expectations as to interest rate and foreign currency risks. In addition, any statements contained herein that are not statements of historical facts are deemed to be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect our managements beliefs and views with respect to future events, are based on estimates and assumptions as of the date of this report, and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Part II, Item 1A Risk Factors of this report. Moreover, we operate in a very competitive and rapidly changing environment. New risks emerge from time to time. It is not possible for our management to predict all risks, nor can we assess the impact of all factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements we may make. Given these uncertainties, you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We qualify all of the forward-looking statements in this report with these cautionary statements. You should not rely upon forward-looking statements as predictions of future events. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee that the future results, levels of activity, performance, events, or circumstances reflected in the forward-looking statements will be achieved or occur. We undertake no obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason after the date of this report to conform these statements to actual results or to changes in our expectations, except as required by law. Overview Coursera is one of the world's largest online learning destinations, connecting an ecosystem of learners, content creators, organizations, and institutions through high-quality content, credentials, data, and technology. We partner with over 350 university and industry partners (collectively, our educator partners or content creators) to create and distribute high-quality, modular, flexible, and affordable content. As of March 31, 2025, we had approximately 175 million Registered Learners on our platform. Our learners engage with a broad catalog of products, from standalone projects and courses to advanced skills development through industry micro-credentials and degree programs. Coursera serves learners directly, as well as through their employers, academic institutions, and government-sponsored programs. We offer a wide range of learning products, including Guided Projects, courses, Specializations, and certificates that can enable career progression or build towards a broader course of study such as a degree. We are focused on creating an integrated learner journey, so that investments in Coursera's platform capabilities, product development, and innovation can serve a broad audience of learners at all stages of career advancement. Our go-to-market strategy centers on attracting learners to our platform through world-class branded content and credentials and efficient marketing channels. We aim to support the career and educational goals of our learners by enhancing our personalized discovery experiences and localizing our recommendations. We also leverage insights derived from our learners to identify potential Enterprise prospects, complemented by our direct sales team, which finds and engages with potential business, academic, government, and other institutional customers. Key Financial Results for First Quarter 2025 Total revenue was $179.3 million, up 6% from $169.1 million a year ago. Gross profit was $97.9 million, compared to $89.5 million a year ago. Non-GAAP gross profit was $100.1 million, compared to $91.7 million a year ago. Net loss was $(7.8) million, compared to $(21.3) million a year ago. Non-GAAP net income was $19.7 million, compared to $11.9 million a year ago. Net loss per share was $(0.05), compared to $(0.14) a year ago. Non-GAAP net income per share was $0.12, compared to $0.07 a year ago. 20 Table of Contents Adjusted EBITDA was $18.7 million, compared to $8.3 million a year ago. Net cash provided by operating activities was $33.5 million, compared to $24.5 million a year ago. Free Cash Flow was $25.3 million, compared to $18.1 million a year ago. The foregoing highlights mention both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. For definitions of our non-GAAP financial measures and why we believe they are useful, please see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Leadership Transition Effective February 3, 2025, our Board of Directors (the Board) appointed Gregory Hart as our President, Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and a Class III director on our Board. Refer to Note 1, Basis of Presentation and Description of Business, and Note 11, Employee Benefit Plans, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information. Reporting Segments Our chief operating decision maker (CODM) is our CEO. In connection with Mr. Harts appointment as our CEO, we have simplified our business model and determined that our operations are conducted through two reporting segments: Consumer and Enterprise, which reflects how our CODM assesses performance and allocates resources. This updated structure enhances our CODMs ability to allocate resources effectively and enables our CODM to make informed decisions that align with our strategic priorities, drive learner and customer satisfaction, and ultimately support business growth. This segment reporting change does not impact our Enterprise segment or consolidated results. We have recast all prior-period segment information to align with our current segment presentation. Refer to Note 13, Segment and Geographic Information, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for additional information. Restructuring and Expense Reduction Initiatives During 2024 and the first quarter of 2025, in alignment with our efforts to refine our business strategy and hone our focus, we reduced our expenses and prioritized investments in key initiatives that are expected to drive long-term, sustainable growth. In January 2024, we implemented a plan to restructure our Enterprise segment sales force and recognized restructuring related charges of $2.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024. Related cash payments of $1.8 million were made during the same period and reflected as cash used in operating activities within our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In October 2024, we announced a commitment to further reduce overall expenses, focus our efforts, and prioritize future investments in key initiatives that we expect will drive long-term, sustainable growth. This initiative resulted in a reduction of our global workforce by approximately 9%, creating capacity for targeted investments, as well as incremental profitability. In the fourth quarter of 2024, we recognized restructuring related charges of $6.8 million, mainly consisting of personnel expenses such as severance and benefits, and paid $2.7 million. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we recognized incremental charges of $0.7 million, made cash payments of $5.2 million, and also recognized a reversal of stock-based compensation expense of $1.6 million due to the forfeiture of RSUs and stock options. As of March 31, 2025, an insignificant amount remained unpaid. Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe our business growth and future success depend on many factors. While each present significant opportunities for us, these factors also pose challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain the growth of our business and enhance our results of operations. Ability to innovate our products. Central to our strategy is the continued innovation of our products. We aim to expand access to world-class education and career opportunities by focusing on improvements in our learner experience, accelerating product development cycles, leveraging advanced AI technology and tools, and utilizing data-driven insights to continuously enhance the capabilities of our platform. 21 Table of Contents Ability to source in-demand content from our content creators. We believe that learners and enterprises are attracted to Coursera largely due to the quality, trust, and job-relevance of our wide selection of educational products provided by our content creators. We intend to accelerate our content engine, continuing to source and produce in-demand content and credentials in order to attract, convert, and retain learners and grow our revenue over time. By rapidly expanding our catalog of high-quality, job-relevant courses in collaboration with leading content creators, we aim to meet the evolving skill requirements of learners looking to transform their careers and support companies seeking to transform their businesses through their most crucial assettheir people. We believe that our reach, scale, and reputation offer an attractive value proposition for leading organizations and institutions to partner with Coursera to develop and distribute content and credentials. To be the platform of choice for trusted content creators, we continue to invest in increasing the size and engagement of our learner base, enhancing the learning and authoring experience with AI-powered product innovations (e.g., Course Builder and Coach), and providing a suite of academic integrity features (e.g., identity verification and anti-plagiarism detection). Additionally, we are focused on improving our ability to provide personalized discovery, career guidance, and recommendations, driving higher conversion into paid offerings through efficient marketing efforts, and enhancing data-driven insights and tools available to learners, content creators, organizations, and institutions. Ability to enhance our go-to-market capabilities. In order to grow our business, we must efficiently attract learners and Enterprise customers, offer a compelling value proposition, and increase engagement and retention on our platform over time. Our Consumer learners are vital to growing and maintaining our overall ecosystem, as they generate interest from content creators who value our global reach. To increase engagement and retention, we are focused on investing in platform capabilities that serve a broad audience. We aim to guide individual learners more effectively through personalized recommendations, localized discovery, and outcome-focused value propositions that can support the career and educational goals of our learners, as well as the workforce and skilling needs of our Enterprise customers. Impact of mix shift over time. The mix of our business amongst our Consumer and Enterprise segments shifts from time to time, and these shifts have and will continue to affect our financial performance. We typically incur content costs in the form of a fee paid to our educator partners, determined as a percentage of total revenue generated from their content. In 2025, we began compensating our educator partners based on the level of learner engagement their content generates, rather than learner enrollment rates. We believe this change will improve learner outcomes by incentivizing our educator partners to produce highly engaging content, drive adoption of learning innovation, and account for the varied types of content we offer beyond courses. Ability to convert free learners to paid learners. New learners typically start by engaging with free courses on our platform, which serve as a funnel to grow our total learner base and drive referrals to our other products, including our paid offerings. We engage our free learners through both our on-platform and off-platform marketing efforts, highlighting premium features that encourage conversion to our paid offerings, such as subscriptions. These efforts include campaigns targeting existing learners, personalized recommendations, and performance marketing on the internet. Ability to expand our international footprint. We see a significant opportunity to expand into regions with large, underserved adult learning populations. As part of our growth strategy, we have invested and plan to continue investing in marketing, localized discovery, and translation efforts to support our international expansion and grow our customer and learner base. We have also been improving the front-end experience for our Consumer learners and tailoring our pricing and check-out options, including selling our offerings in foreign currency, in select markets. Our business results and operations will depend on our ability to effectively price and package our Consumer products to meet demand and manage foreign currency risk. Ability to retain and expand our Enterprise customer relationships. Our efforts to grow our Enterprise segment are focused primarily on businesses and universities. We also continue to foster relationships with our government customers and strategically engage in providing scaled workforce development. We believe a significant opportunity exists to expand our customers use of our platform by identifying new use cases that increase deployment sizes, as well as developing new innovation that can drive higher engagement and utilization. Our business and results of operations will depend, in part, on our ability to retain and expand platform usage within our existing customer base. 22 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our results of operations, which are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for future periods. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions) Revenue $ 179.3 $ 169.1 Cost of revenue(1) 81.4 79.6 Gross profit 97.9 89.5 Operating expenses: Research and development(1) 29.5 34.6 Sales and marketing(1) 56.8 57.6 General and administrative(1) 26.9 25.0 Restructuring related charges(1) (0.9) 2.1 Total operating expenses 112.3 119.3 Loss from operations (14.4) (29.8) Interest income, net 7.8 9.6 Other income (expense), net 0.3 (0.3) Loss before income taxes (6.3) (20.5) Income tax expense 1.5 0.8 Net loss $ (7.8) $ (21.3) (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions) Cost of revenue $ 0.7 $ 0.7 Research and development 8.6 11.0 Sales and marketing 4.9 7.9 General and administrative 11.6 8.3 Restructuring related charges (1.6) Total stock-based compensation expense $ 24.2 $ 27.9 23 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our results of operations as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue 45.4 47.1 Gross profit 54.6 52.9 Operating expenses: Research and development 16.5 20.4 Sales and marketing 31.7 34.1 General and administrative 15.0 14.8 Restructuring related charges (0.5) 1.2 Total operating expenses 62.7 70.5 Loss from operations (8.1) (17.6) Interest income, net 4.4 5.7 Other income (expense), net 0.2 (0.2) Loss before income taxes (3.5) (12.1) Income tax expense 0.9 0.5 Net loss (4.4) % (12.6) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (in millions, except percentages) Revenue: Consumer $ 117.6 $ 111.6 $ 6.0 5 % Enterprise 61.7 57.5 4.2 7 % Total revenue $ 179.3 $ 169.1 $ 10.2 6 % Revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $179.3 million, an increase of $10.2 million, or 6%, compared to $169.1 million for the prior year quarter. Revenue growth was primarily driven by an 18% increase in the average total number of Registered Learners, resulting in more paid learners, and a 12% increase in the average total number of Paid Enterprise Customers. This growth was partially offset by lower paid learner and customer retention in our Consumer and Enterprise segments globally. Consumer revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 increased by $6.0 million, or 5%, compared to the prior year quarter.This increase was primarily driven by an increase in subscriptions to Coursera Plus. Enterprise revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 increased by $4.2 million, or 7%, compared to the prior year quarter, attributable to an increase in new customers. Acquisitions of new customers drove an increase of $9.1 million, offset by a $4.9 million decrease due to contraction of existing customer spend. 24 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit, and Gross Margin Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (in millions, except percentages) Cost of revenue $ 81.4 $ 79.6 $ 1.8 2 % Gross profit $ 97.9 $ 89.5 $ 8.4 9 % Gross margin 54.6 % 52.9 % Cost of revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was $81.4 million compared to $79.6 million for the prior year quarter. The primary driver of the increase was content costs, including a $1.0 million increase in amortization expense for content assets. Content costs for the Consumer segment were $45.2 million and $45.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, with content costs as a percentage of revenue of 38.4% and 40.3% for the same periods. Content costs for the Enterprise segment were $18.5 million and $18.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, with content costs as a percentage of revenue of 30.0% and 31.9% for the same periods. Content costs as a percentage of revenue for both segments decreased due to higher learner engagement in content created under production arrangements with lower revenue share. Gross margin was 54.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2025, an increase from 52.9% for the prior year quarter. The increase in gross margin was driven by lower content cost rates in both our Consumer and Enterprise segments. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (in millions, except percentages) Operating expenses: Research and development $ 29.5 $ 34.6 $ (5.1) (15) % Sales and marketing 56.8 57.6 (0.8) (1) % General and administrative 26.9 25.0 1.9 8 % Restructuring related charges (0.9) 2.1 (3.0) nm Total operating expenses $ 112.3 $ 119.3 $ (7.0) (6) % Total operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were $112.3 millioncompared to $119.3 million for the prior year quarter. Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were $29.5 million compared to $34.6 million for the prior year quarter. This decrease was primarily due to lower personnel-related expenses of $5.0 million, including $2.7 million in stock-based compensation expense, resulting from our October 2024 expense reduction initiative and from shifting resources to lower-cost regions. Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were $56.8 million compared to $57.6 million for the prior year quarter. This decrease was primarily due to lower personnel-related expenses of $5.1 million, including $3.3 million in stock-based compensation expense, resulting from our 2024 expense reduction initiatives, and was largely offset by an increase in marketing and advertising expenses in our Consumer segment of $4.3 million. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 were $26.9 million compared to $25.0 million for the prior year quarter. This increase was primarily due to an increase in personnel-related expenses of $4.0 million largely related to our CEO transition, including $3.1 million in stock-based compensation expense, and was partially offset by a decrease in office lease expenses of $1.1 million. 25 Table of Contents Restructuring related charges for the three months ended March 31, 2025, were $(0.9) million, primarily consisting of the reversal of stock-based compensation expense for the forfeitures of RSUs and stock options, mostly offset by personnel expenses, such as employee severance and benefits costs, related to our expense reduction initiative initiated in October 2024, compared to $2.1 million for the prior year quarter, primarily consisting of personnel expenses, such as employee severance and benefits costs, related to our expense reduction initiative initiated in January 2024. Refer to Note 14, Restructuring Related Charges, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q for further information. Other Income (Expense) Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (in millions, except percentages) Interest income, net $ 7.8 $ 9.6 $ (1.8) (19) % Other income (expense), net 0.3 (0.3) 0.6 nm Total other income, net $ 8.1 $ 9.3 $ (1.2) (13) % Total other income, net for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily comprised of interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents. Interest income, net decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the prior year quarter due to lower interest rates and our average rate of return on investments in U.S. Treasury securities. Other income (expense), net for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 were primarily comprised of unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses. Our foreign subsidiaries operating costs are typically denominated in the local currencies for each country and are subject to foreign currency fluctuations. We also maintain foreign-currency cash and cash equivalents in our foreign subsidiaries to support their ongoing operations. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2025 2024 $ % (in millions, except percentages) Income tax expense $ 1.5 $ 0.8 $ 0.7 88 % Income tax expense for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 was primarily related to state and foreign taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of March 31, 2025, our principal source of liquidity was cash and cash equivalents totaling $748.0 million. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through proceeds from the issuance of redeemable convertible preferred stock, our initial public offering completed in April 2021 (the IPO), and cash generated from business operations. Our principal uses of cash in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 include the funding of our business operations, investments in our internal-use software, purchases of content assets, and repurchases of our common stock. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, along with our expected cash flows from operations, will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures, the continuing market acceptance of our offerings, and any investments or acquisitions we may choose to pursue in the future. If we need to borrow funds or issue additional equity, we cannot assure you that any such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Moreover, any future borrowings may result in additional restrictions on our business and any issuance of additional equity would result in dilution to investors. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired and on terms acceptable to us, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 26 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments Except as discussed in Note 6, Leases, and Note 9, Commitments and Contingencies, included in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, there were no material changes outside of the ordinary course of business in our commitments and contractual obligations for the three months ended March 31, 2025 as compared to those in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, set forth in our Form 10-K. Share Repurchase Program On April 26, 2023, the Board approved a share repurchase program with authorization to purchase up to $95 million of our common stock, excluding commissions and fees (the Repurchase Program). In May 2024, we completed the purchase authorization under the Repurchase Program, which was funded with our existing cash and cash equivalents. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we repurchased an aggregate of approximately 0.4 million shares of our common stock for $6.0 million under the aforementioned program. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 33.5 $ 24.5 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities (8.2) 59.6 Net cash used in financing activities (5.0) (15.0) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 20.3 $ 69.1 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation expense and depreciation and amortization, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Operating cash is primarily sourced by customer payments and is primarily used to pay for personnel-related expenses, educator partner fees, marketing and advertising expenses, third-party cloud infrastructure expenses, and indirect taxes. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash provided by operating activities was $33.5 million, primarily resulting from improved operating leverage and working capital driven by (i) deferred revenue growth, partially offset by (ii) the payout of annual and commission-based incentive compensation as well as severance related to our expense reduction initiative. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by operating activities was $24.5 million, primarily driven by improved operating leverage and working capital, including (i) a decrease in accounts receivables due to higher cash collections and (ii) deferred revenue growth, partially offset by (iii) the payout of annual incentive compensation. Cash provided by operating activities increased by $9.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2025, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily resulting from improved operating leverage. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in investing activities was $8.2 million, due to (i) purchases of content assets, (ii) capitalized internal-use software costs, and (iii) purchases of property, equipment, and software. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash provided by investing activities was $59.6 million, primarily driven by (i) proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, partially offset by (ii) capitalized internal-use software costs, (iii) purchases of content assets, and (iv) purchases of property, equipment and software. 27 Table of Contents Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2025, net cash used in financing activities was $5.0 million, primarily due to (i) payments for tax withholding on vesting of RSUs, partially offset by (ii) proceeds from the exercise of stock options. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, net cash used in financing activities was $15.0 million, primarily driven by (i) payments for tax withholdings on vesting of RSU and (ii) payments for repurchases of common stock under the Repurchase Program, partially offset by (iii) proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We monitor the key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, and assess operational efficiencies. These key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may differ from similarly titled metrics or measures presented by other companies. A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is provided in Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Key Business Metrics Registered Learners We count the total number of Registered Learners at the end of each period. For purposes of determining our Registered Learner count, we treat each customer account that registers with a unique email as a Registered Learner and adjust for any spam, test accounts, and cancellations. Our Registered Learner count is not intended as a measure of active engagement. New Registered Learners are individuals that register in a particular period. We believe that the number of Registered Learners is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future revenue trends. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions) New Registered Learners 7.1 6.6 March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Total Registered Learners 175.3 148.5 Total Registered Learners year-over-year (YoY) growth 18 % Paid Enterprise Customers We count the total number of Paid Enterprise Customers that are active on our platform at the end of each period. For purposes of determining our customer count, we treat each customer account that has a corresponding contract as a unique customer, and a single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers. We define a Paid Enterprise Customer as a customer who purchases Coursera via our direct sales force. For purposes of determining our Paid Enterprise Customer count, we exclude our Enterprise customers who do not purchase Coursera via our direct sales force, including organizations engaging on our platform through our Coursera for Teams offering or through our channel partners. 28 Table of Contents For the three months ended March 31, 2025, approximately 94% of Enterprise revenue was generated from our Paid Enterprise Customers. We believe that the number of Paid Enterprise Customers and our ability to increase this number is an important indicator of the growth of our Enterprise segment and future Enterprise segment revenue trends. March 31, 2025 2024 Paid Enterprise Customers 1,651 1,480 YoY growth 12 % Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers We disclose Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers as a supplemental measure of our Enterprise revenue growth. We believe Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our subscription agreements and our ability to retain and grow revenue from our Paid Enterprise Customers. We calculate annual recurring revenue (ARR) by annualizing each customers monthly recurring revenue (MRR) for the most recent month at period end. We calculate Net Retention Rate for a period by starting with the ARR from all Paid Enterprise Customers as of the 12 months prior to such period end, or Prior Period ARR. We then calculate the ARR from these same Paid Enterprise Customers as of the current period end, or Current Period ARR. Current Period ARR includes expansion within Paid Enterprise Customers and is net of contraction or attrition over the trailing 12 months but excludes revenue from new Paid Enterprise Customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at our Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers. Our Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers was 91% as of March 31, 2025 compared to 94% as of March 31, 2024. The decrease was primarily the result of customer attrition in North America, including certain large government contracts. Our Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers is expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our revenue base, the penetration within our Paid Enterprise Customer base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain and expand our Paid Enterprise Customers. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers 91 % 94 % YoY change (3) % Segment Revenue We generate revenue from two reportable segments: Consumer and Enterprise. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Consumer revenue $ 117.6 $ 111.6 YoY growth 5 % Enterprise revenue $ 61.7 $ 57.5 YoY growth 7 % Total revenue $ 179.3 $ 169.1 YoY growth 6 % 29 Table of Contents Segment Gross Profit We monitor segment gross profit as a key metric to help us evaluate the financial performance of our individual segments. Segment gross profit represents segment revenue less segment content costs paid to educator partners; segment gross margin is the quotient of segment gross profit and segment revenue. Given that content costs are the largest individual cost of our revenue, and that these costs contractually vary as a percentage of revenue between our Consumer and Enterprise offerings, mix shifts between our two segments is a significant factor of our overall gross margin, financial performance, and profitability. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Consumer gross profit $ 72.4 $ 66.6 Consumer segment gross margin % 61.6 % 59.7 % Enterprise gross profit $ 43.2 $ 39.1 Enterprise segment gross margin % 70.0 % 68.0 % Consumer segment gross margin increased to 61.6% in the three months ended March 31, 2025 from 59.7% in the three months ended March 31, 2024. Enterprise segment gross margin increased to 70.0% from 68.0% when comparing those same periods. The improvements in gross margin were primarily the result of lower content cost rates in both our Consumer and Enterprise segments, for the three months ended March 31, 2025, due to higher learner engagement in content created under new production arrangements with lower revenue share. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP Gross Profit, Non-GAAP Net Income, and Non-GAAP Net Income Per Share We define non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP net income as GAAP gross profit and GAAP net loss excluding: (i) stock-based compensation expense; (ii) amortization of stock-based compensation expense capitalized as internal-use software costs; (iii) payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation; (iv) costs and settlement (gains) losses related to significant and non-recurring legal matters, net of insurance recoveries; and (v) restructuring related charges. Non-GAAP net income per share is calculated by dividing non-GAAP net income by the diluted weighted average shares of common stock outstanding. We believe the presentation of these adjusted operating results provides useful supplemental information to investors and facilitates the analysis and comparison of our operating results across reporting periods. The following tables provide a reconciliation of GAAP gross profit and GAAP net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP net income: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions) Gross profit $ 97.9 $ 89.5 Stock-based compensation expense 0.7 0.7 Amortization of stock-based compensation capitalized as internal-use software costs 1.5 1.5 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 100.1 $ 91.7 30 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions) Net loss $ (7.8) $ (21.3) Stock-based compensation expense 25.8 27.9 Amortization of stock-based compensation capitalized as internal-use software costs 1.5 1.5 Payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation 0.9 1.7 Significant and non-recurring legal matters 0.2 Restructuring related charges (0.9) 2.1 Non-GAAP net income $ 19.7 $ 11.9 Weighted-average shares used in computing net loss per sharebasic 160.7 156.4 Effect of dilutive securities 4.0 11.9 Weighted-average shares used in computing non-GAAP net income per sharediluted 164.7 168.3 Net loss per sharebasic and diluted $ (0.05) $ (0.14) Non-GAAP net income per sharediluted $ 0.12 $ 0.07 Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are key measures used by our management to help us analyze our financial results, establish budgets and operational goals for managing our business, evaluate our performance, and make strategic decisions. We define Adjusted EBITDA as our GAAP net loss excluding: (i) depreciation and amortization; (ii) interest income, net; (iii) income tax expense; (iv) other (income) expense, net; (v) stock-based compensation expense; (vi) payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation; (vii) costs and settlement (gains) losses related to significant and non-recurring legal matters, net of insurance recoveries; and (viii) restructuring related charges. We define Adjusted EBITDA Margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions, except percentages) Net loss $ (7.8) $ (21.3) Depreciation and amortization 7.1 6.4 Interest income, net (7.8) (9.6) Income tax expense 1.5 0.8 Other (income) expense, net (0.3) 0.3 Stock-based compensation expense 25.8 27.9 Payroll tax expense related to stock-based compensation 0.9 1.7 Significant and non-recurring legal matters 0.2 Restructuring related charges (0.9) 2.1 Adjusted EBITDA $ 18.7 $ 8.3 Net loss margin (4.4) % (12.6) % Adjusted EBITDA Margin 10.4 % 4.9 % 31 Table of Contents Free Cash Flow We define Free Cash Flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less purchases of property, equipment, and software, capitalized internal-use software costs, and purchases of content assets as we consider these capital expenditures necessary to support our ongoing operations. We consider Free Cash Flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors in understanding and evaluating our liquidity and future ability to generate cash that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business and strengthening our balance sheet, but it is not intended to represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. The following table provides a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Free Cash Flow: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 33.5 $ 24.5 Less: purchases of content assets (4.1) (2.2) Less: capitalized internal-use software costs (3.6) (4.1) Less: purchases of property, equipment, and software (0.5) (0.1) Free Cash Flow $ 25.3 $ 18.1 Critical Accounting Estimates Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Form 10-K.