Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the SEC on March 3, 2022. 24 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (38,257 ) $ (4,347 ) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (185,113 ) 78,038 Net cash provided by financing activities 4,027 4,503 Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (219,343 ) $ 78,194 Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities mainly consists of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities during each period. Our main source of operating cash is payments received from our customers. Our primary use of cash from operating activities is for personnel-related expenses, partner fees, marketing and advertising expenses, indirect taxes, and third-party cloud infrastructure expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in operating activities was $38.3 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $38.3 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $28.8 million and net cash outflows of $28.8 million used in changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $20.0 million increase in accounts receivables due to timing of invoicing for Enterprise and Degrees customers, a $11.5 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets due to the timing of license subscription renewals and advertising services, a $6.7 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses due to timing of payments, a $1.8 million decrease in accrued compensation and other liabilities due to payout of accrued compensation, offset by $11.5 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from our Enterprise business growth. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash used in operating activities was $4.3 million, primarily consisting of our net loss of $18.7 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $8.5 million and net cash inflows of $5.8 million provided by changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The main drivers of the changes in operating assets and liabilities were a $8.1 million increase in deferred revenue, resulting primarily from our Consumer business growth, a $5.0 million decrease in accounts receivable due to timing of invoicing and cash receipts from Enterprise customers, partially offset by a $4.3 million decrease in accrued compensation and other liabilities resulting primarily from payout of accrued compensation, and a $3.0 million decrease in accounts payable and accrued expenses due to timing of vendor payments. Cash used in operating activities decreased by $33.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to timing of invoicing and cash collections as well as timing of license subscription renewals and advertising services. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities was $185.1 million, primarily as a result of purchases of marketable securities and capital expenditures to develop internal-use software. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by investing activities was $78.0 million, primarily as a result of proceeds from maturities of marketable securities, offset by capital expenditures to develop internal-use software. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was $4.0 million, primarily as a result of proceeds from issuance of common stock following employee stock option exercises, offset by employee payroll taxes paid for vesting of restricted stock units. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was $4.5 million, primarily as a result of proceeds from issuance of common stock following employee stock option exercises, partially offset by payments of deferred offering costs related to our IPO. 25 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics and Non-GAAP Financial Measures We monitor the key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts, and assess operational efficiencies. These key business metrics and non-GAAP financial measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP, and may differ from similarly titled metrics or measures presented by other companies. A reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is provided in Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below. Key Business Metrics Registered Learners We count the total number of registered learners at the end of each period. For purposes of determining our registered learner count, we treat each customer account that registers with a unique email as a registered learner and adjust for any spam, test accounts, and cancellations. Our registered learner count is not intended as a measure of active engagement. New registered learners are individuals that register in a particular period. We believe that the number of registered learners is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future revenue trends. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in millions, except percentages) New Registered Learners 4.9 5.0 Total Registered Learners 101.7 81.5 Total Registered Learners year-over-year ("YoY") growth 25 % Number of Degrees Students We count the total number of Degrees students for each period. For purposes of determining our Degrees student count, we include all the students that are matriculated in a bachelors, masters, or postgraduate diploma and who are enrolled in one or more courses in such a degree program during the period. If a degree term spans across multiple quarters, the student is counted as active in all quarters of the degree term. For purposes of determining our Degrees student count, we do not include students who are matriculated in the degree but are not enrolled in a course in that period. We believe that the number of Degrees students is an important indicator of the growth of our Degrees business and future Degrees segment revenue trends. The Degrees student count is affected by the seasonality of the school class cycles, combined with the underlying growth interacting with those trends. The number of Degrees students fluctuates in part because the academic terms for each degree program often begins and/or ends within different calendar quarters, and the frequency with which each degree program is offered within a given year varies. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Number of Degrees Students 16,481 13,493 YoY growth 22 % Paid Enterprise Customers We count the total number of Paid Enterprise Customers that are active on our platform at the end of each period. For purposes of determining our customer count, we treat each customer account that has a corresponding contract as a unique customer, and a single organization with multiple divisions, segments, or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers. We define a Paid Enterprise Customer as a customer who purchases Coursera via our direct sales force. For purposes of determining our Paid Enterprise Customer count, we exclude our Enterprise customers who do not purchase Coursera via our direct sales force, which include organizations engaging on our platform through our Coursera for Teams offering or through our channel partners. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, approximately 87% of our total Enterprise segment revenue was generated from our Paid Enterprise Customers. We believe that the number of Paid Enterprise Customers and our ability to increase this number is an important indicator of the growth of our Enterprise business and future Enterprise segment revenue trends. 26 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Paid Enterprise Customers 917 479 YoY growth 91 % Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers We disclose Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers as a supplemental measure of our Enterprise revenue growth. We believe Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers is an important metric that provides insight into the long-term value of our subscription agreements and our ability to retain and grow revenue from our Paid Enterprise Customers. We calculate annual recurring revenue (ARR) by annualizing each customers monthly recurring revenue (MRR) for the most recent month at period end. We calculate Net Retention Rate as of a period end by starting with the ARR from all Paid Enterprise Customers as of the 12 months prior to such period end, or Prior Period ARR. We then calculate the ARR from these same Paid Enterprise Customers as of the current period end, or Current Period ARR. Current Period ARR includes expansion within Paid Enterprise Customers and is net of contraction or attrition over the trailing 12 months but excludes revenue from new Paid Enterprise Customers in the current period. We then divide the total Current Period ARR by the total Prior Period ARR to arrive at our Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers. Our Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers decreased to 109% as of March 31, 2022 from 113% as of March 31, 2021. Our Net Retention Rate for Paid Enterprise Customers is expected to fluctuate in future periods due to a number of factors, including the growth of our revenue base, the penetration within our Paid Enterprise Customer base, expansion of products and features, and our ability to retain our Paid Enterprise Customers. Segment Revenue Our revenue is generated from three sources: Consumer, Enterprise, and Degrees, each of which is an individual segment of our business. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Consumer revenue $ 68,096 $ 51,908 YoY growth 31 % Enterprise revenue $ 39,046 $ 24,493 YoY growth 59 % Degrees revenue $ 13,291 $ 11,961 YoY growth 11 % Total revenue $ 120,433 $ 88,362 YoY growth 36 % Segment Gross Profit We monitor segment gross profit as a key metric to help us evaluate the financial performance of our individual segments. Segment gross profit represents segment revenue less content costs paid to educator partners; segment gross margin is the quotient of segment gross profit and segment revenue. Content costs only apply to the Consumer and Enterprise segments as there is no content cost attributable to the Degrees segment. Instead, in the Degrees segment, we earn a Degrees service fee based on a percentage of the total online student tuition collected by the university partner. Given that content costs are the largest individual cost of our revenue, and contractually vary as a percentage of revenue between our Consumer and Enterprise offerings, and the fact that no content costs are payable in our Degrees offering, shifts in mix between our three segments is expected to be a significant driver of our overall financial performance and profitability. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Consumer gross profit $ 48,296 $ 29,655 Consumer segment gross margin % 71 % 57 % Enterprise gross profit $ 27,952 $ 16,581 Enterprise segment gross margin % 72 % 68 % Degrees gross profit $ 13,291 $ 11,961 Degrees segment gross margin % 100 % 100 % 27 Table of Contents Consumer segment gross margin increased to 71% in the three months ended March 31, 2022 from 57% in the three months ended March 31, 2021 due to a greater proportion of Consumer revenue generated from sales of subscriptions with no associated content cost. Enterprise segment gross margin increased to 72% from 68% when comparing to the prior year due to a higher proportion of Enterprise revenue generated from subscription licenses where learners enrolled in content with no associated content cost. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP Gross Profit and Non-GAAP Net Loss We define non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP net loss as GAAP gross profit and GAAP net loss excluding the impact of stock-based compensation and payroll tax expense related to stock-based activities. We believe the presentation of operating results that exclude these non-cash items provides useful supplemental information to investors and facilitates the analysis of our operating results and comparison of operating results across reporting periods. The following tables provide a reconciliation of GAAP gross profit and GAAP net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP net loss: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Gross profit $ 77,630 $ 49,536 Stock-based compensation expense 577 107 Payroll tax expense related to stock-based activities 10 1 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 78,217 $ 49,644 Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net loss $ (38,268 ) $ (18,663 ) Stock-based compensation expense 21,978 5,284 Payroll tax expense related to stock-based activities 465 27 Non-GAAP net loss $ (15,825 ) $ (13,353 ) Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, which are non-GAAP financial measures, are key measures used by our management to help us analyze our financial results, establish budget and operational goals for managing our business, evaluate our performance, and make strategic decisions. We define Adjusted EBITDA as our net loss excluding: (1) depreciation and amortization; (2) interest income, net; (3) stock-based compensation; (4) income tax expense; and (5) payroll tax expense related to stock-based activities. We define Adjusted EBITDA Margin as Adjusted EBITDA divided by revenue. The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Adjusted EBITDA. 28 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (dollars in thousands) Net loss $ (38,268 ) $ (18,663 ) Depreciation and amortization 4,182 2,931 Interest income, net (335 ) (80 ) Stock-based compensation 21,978 5,284 Income tax expense 1,008 375 Payroll tax expense related to stock-based activities 465 27 Adjusted EBITDA $ (10,970 ) $ (10,126 ) Net loss margin (32 )% (21 )% Adjusted EBITDA Margin (9 )% (11 )% Free Cash Flow Free Cash Flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we calculate as net cash (used in) provided by operating activities, less cash used for purchases of property, equipment, and software and capitalized internal-use software costs as we consider these capital expenditures necessary to support our ongoing operations. We consider Free Cash Flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors in understanding and evaluating our liquidity and future ability to generate cash that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business and strengthening our balance sheet, but it is not intended to represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. The following table provides a reconciliation of net cash used in operating activities, the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, to Free Cash Flow. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (38,257 ) $ (4,347 ) Less: purchases of property, equipment, and software (400 ) (307 ) Less: capitalized internal-use software costs (3,544 ) (3,985 ) Free Cash Flow $ (42,201 ) $ (8,639 ) Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities $ (185,113 ) $ 78,038 Net cash provided by financing activities $ 4,027 $ 4,503 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP). The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses, and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Actual results may differ from these estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and our actual results, our future financial statements will be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as compared to those described in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the SEC on March 3, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements. 29 Table of Contents JOBS Act Transition Period We are an emerging growth company as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012 (the JOBS Act). The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act for the adoption of certain accounting standards until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Item 3. Quanti tative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk We have operations both within the United States and internationally, and we are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business, including the effects of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations. Information relating to quantitative and qualitative disclosures about these market risks is described below. Interest Rate Sensitivity As of March 31, 2022, of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, $419.1 million of marketable securities, which consist of U.S. government Treasury bills, are subject to interest rate sensitivity. Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are held for working capital purposes. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in interest rates would have resulted in $2.3 million decrease or increase, respectively, in the market value of our marketable securities as of March 31, 2022. Foreign Currency Risk Our reporting currency and the functional currency of our wholly owned foreign subsidiaries is the U.S. dollar. With limited exceptions, all of our sales are denominated in U.S. dollars; therefore, our revenue is not currently subject to significant foreign currency risk. Our operating expenses are denominated in the local currencies of the countries in which our operations are located and may be subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly changes in the Canadian Dollar, Pound Sterling, and Indian Rupee. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may cause us to recognize transaction gains and losses in our consolidated statement of operations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging arrangements with respect to foreign currency risk or other derivative financial instruments, although we may choose to do so in the future. A 10% increase or decrease in current exchange rates would have resulted in an impact of $2.0 million on our quarterly unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022.