Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before investing in our common stock. If any of the following risks are realized, in whole or in part, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results have fluctuated from period to period and may do so in the future, which could cause our stock price to fluctuate and the value of your investment to decline. Our quarterly and annual revenue and operating results have historically fluctuated from period to period, and our future operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our operating results as an indication of our future performance. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly operating results include, but are not limited to, the following: our ability to maintain existing customers and attract new customers, including businesses, governments, and educational institutions who subscribe to our Enterprise platform, as well as learners who access the content and credentialing programs available on our platform; our ability to continue to offer compelling content and degrees or other credentialing programs created by our industry and university partners; changes in, or trends affecting, subscriptions to our Enterprise platform from businesses, governments, and educational institutions; changes in, or trends affecting, learner enrollment and retention levels, including with respect to learners electing to access our paid offerings; our ability to increase and manage the growth of our international operations, including our international customer base, and our ability to manage the risks associated therewith; the timing of our costs incurred in connection with the launch of new course content and offerings and new certification, degree, or other credentialing programs, and the timing and amount of revenue we generate from new offerings and programs; trends and factors impacting the demand for, and acceptance of, online learning and credentialing programs, including the COVID-19 pandemic, and the prices consumers and businesses are willing to pay for such programs; changes in, or trends affecting, the mix of partners, including educational institutions, offering open online courses only and those offering certification, degree, or other credentialing programs; changes in the rate, volume, and demand for new content and credentialing programs created and offered by our partners on our platform; 33 Table of Contents changes in the terms of our existing partnership agreements; the timing and terms of any new partnership agreements; the timing and amount of our sales and marketing expenses; costs necessary to improve and maintain our platform; changes in our key metrics or the methods used to calculate our key metrics; seasonality, including seasonal engagement patterns of learners and Enterprise customers, which may vary from quarter to quarter or year to year; changes in laws, regulations or accounting principles that impact our business; and general political, economic, or market conditions and events affecting any of the above, including the outcome of political elections and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. These and other factors may cause our revenue and operating results to fall below the expectations of market analysts and investors in future periods, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline substantially. Any decline in the market price of our common would cause the value of your investment to decline. Our recent, rapid growth may not be indicative of our future growth and we expect our revenue growth rate to decline compared to prior years. We have experienced rapid revenue growth in recent periods with revenue of $53.8 million and $88.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 and March 31, 2021, respectively. You should not rely on our revenue for any previous quarterly or annual period as any indication of our revenue or revenue growth in future periods. As we grow our business, we expect our revenue growth rates to decline compared to prior years for a number of reasons, which may include more challenging comparisons to prior periods as our revenue grows, slowing demand for our platform, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market or market saturation, and our failure to capitalize on growth opportunities. In addition, our growth rates are likely to experience increased volatility, and may decline, as the COVID-19 pandemic evolves and societal and economic circumstances shift. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to predict our future financial and operating results. We were founded in 2011; introduced our first open online course in 2012, our first certificates of completion in 2013, our first Specialization in 2014, our Enterprise platform for businesses in 2016, and our first MasterTrack certification in 2018; enrolled the first students in the Degrees programs offered through our platform in 2016; and introduced Guided Projects in 2019 and Coursera for Campus, our Enterprise platform offering for educational institutions, in late 2019. As a result of our limited operating history, our ability to estimate our future operating results is limited and subject to a number of uncertainties, including those discussed in this Risk Factors section and elsewhere in this prospectus. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our operating and financial results may differ materially from our expectations and our business and stock price may suffer. We have incurred significant net losses since inception, and anticipate that we will continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred net losses of $14.3 million and $18.7 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively, and we had an accumulated deficit of $362.2 million as of March 31, 2021. We expect to incur significant losses in the future. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods to achieve profitability, and even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain or increase our level of profitability. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially for the foreseeable future as we continue to, among other things: expand our course offerings and the robustness of our platform; expand our learner base and our sales and marketing efforts; improve and scale our technology; address increased competition; and incur significant accounting, legal, and other expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. 34 Table of Contents These expenditures will make it more difficult for us to achieve and maintain profitability. Our efforts to grow our business may be more costly than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our higher operating expenses. If we are forced to reduce our expenses, it could negatively impact our growth and growth strategy. As a result, we can provide no assurance as to whether or when we will achieve profitability. If we are not able to achieve and maintain profitability, the value of our company and our common stock could decline significantly, and you could lose some or all of your investment. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and may continue to impact, our business, key metrics, and results of operations in volatile and unpredictable ways. The uncertainty around the COVID-19 pandemic in the United States and worldwide will likely continue to adversely impact the national and global economy. The full extent of the impact of the pandemic on our business, key metrics, and results of operations depends on future developments that are uncertain and unpredictable, including the duration, severity, and spread of the pandemic, its impact on capital and financial markets, and any new information that may emerge concerning the virus or vaccines or other efforts to control the virus. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have transitioned to an almost fully remote work environment and we may continue to operate on a significantly remote and geographically (including internationally) dispersed basis for the foreseeable future. This remote and dispersed work environment could have a negative impact on the execution of our business plans and operations. For example, if a natural disaster, power outage, connectivity issue, or other event occurred that impacted our employees ability to work remotely, it may be difficult or, in certain cases, impossible, for us to continue our business for a substantial period of time. Further, as the COVID-19 pandemic continues, we may experience disruptions if our employees or our partners or third-party service providers employees become ill and are unable to perform their duties, and our operations, Internet, or mobile networks, or the operations of one or more of our third-party service providers, is impacted. The increase in remote working may also result in consumer privacy, IT security, and fraud vulnerabilities, which, if exploited, could result in significant recovery costs and harm to our reputation. Transitioning to a fully or predominantly remote work environment and providing and maintaining the operational and infrastructure necessary to support a remote work environment also present significant challenges to maintaining our corporate culture, including employee engagement and productivity, both during the immediate pandemic crisis and beyond. We have also seen significant and rapid shifts in the traditional models of education and training as this pandemic has evolved. Although we believe our business has also been positively impacted to some extent by several trends related to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the increased need or willingness of businesses, governments, and educational institutions to adopt remote, online, and asynchronous learning and training, we cannot predict whether these trends will continue if and when the pandemic begins to subside, restrictions ease, and the risk and barriers associated with in-person learning and training decrease. In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic may negatively impact the financial resources available to learners or the operating budgets of our partners or customers, any of which could in turn negatively impact our business and operating results. Market adoption of online learning solutions is relatively new and may not grow as we expect, which may harm our business and results of operation. Our future success will depend in part on the growth, if any, in the demand for online learning solutions. While the COVID-19 pandemic has accelerated the market for online learning solutions, it is still less mature than the market for in-person learning and training, which many businesses currently utilize, and these businesses may be slow or unwilling to migrate from these legacy approaches. As such, it is difficult to predict learner or partner demand for our platform, learner or partner adoption and renewal, the rate at which existing learners and partners expand their engagement with our platform, the size and growth rate of the market for our platform, the entry of competitive offerings into the market, or the success of existing competitive offerings. Furthermore, even if educators and enterprises want to adopt an online learning solution, it may take them a substantial amount of time to fully transition to this type of learning solution or they could be delayed due to budget constraints, weakening economic conditions, or other factors. Even if market demand for online learning solutions generally increases, we cannot assure you that adoption of our platform will also increase. If the market for online learning solutions does not grow as we expect or our platform does not achieve widespread adoption, it could result in reduced customer spending, learner and partner attrition, and decreased revenue, any of which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may need to change the contract terms, including our pricing model, for the course content and credentialing programs offered on our platform, which in turn would impact our operating results. 35 Table of Contents We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices and contract length for the course content and certification, degree, and other credentialing programs offered on our platform, and as a result, we have in the past, and expect that we may in the future, need to change our pricing model or target contract length from time to time, which could impact our financial results. For example, in February 2020, we launched Coursera Plus, an annual subscription plan with unlimited access to a variety of our courses, Specializations, and professional certificates, at a fixed annual cost, and we may need to adjust our pricing model as we gain experience with this new offering. As the market for our learning platform grows (if ever), as new competitors introduce competitive applications or services, or as we enter into new international markets, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing models we have historically used, or for contract lengths consistent with our historical averages. Pricing and contract length decisions may also impact the mix of adoption among our offerings and negatively impact our overall revenue. Moreover, competition may require us to make substantial price concessions or accept shorter contract durations. Our revenue and financial position may be adversely affected by any of the foregoing, and we may have increased difficulty achieving profitability. If we fail to maintain and expand our partnerships with university and industry partners, our ability to grow our business and revenue will suffer. The success of our business depends in large part on the continued and increased development and volume of compelling course content and credentialing programs by our university and industry partners, which we also refer to as our educator partners. We may face several challenges in establishing and expanding these relationships. For instance, our university and industry partners who use our platform are required to invest significant time and resources to adjust the manner in which they develop course content and degree programs for an online learning environment. The delivery of degree programs online at educational institutions has not yet achieved widespread acceptance, and many administrators and faculty members may have concerns regarding the perceived loss of control over the educational process that might result from offering courses and degrees online and the effectiveness of asynchronous learning, as well as concerns regarding the ability to provide high-quality education online that maintains the standards they set for their on-campus programs. There can be no assurance that online programs, such as those offered on our platform, will ever achieve significant market acceptance, and universities and organizations may therefore decline to engage with our platform. Further, if we were to lose a significant number of university and industry partners, our growth and revenue would be negatively impacted. If we are required to change the contract terms with our educator partners, including with respect to pricing or contract length, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We work with our educator partners to deliver a broad portfolio of content and credentials on our platform. For our Consumer and Enterprise offerings, we incur content costs in the form of fees paid to educator partners. In addition, our Degrees services revenue is based on a percentage of the total tuition collected from Degrees students by the university partner. As a result, our revenue, gross profit, and operating results generally could be significantly and negatively impacted if we are required to renegotiate or change the terms of our agreements with these partners. For example, if a significant number of university partners, or university partners whose courses or credentialing programs account for a significant volume of learner enrollment on our platform, were to seek to renegotiate the content fees payable by us or the percentage of tuition payable to us, it could have a material impact on our business and operating results. Further, we may be required to change the terms of these agreements, including the pricing terms or contract length, due to competitive, regulatory, or other reasons. Any significant change in our pricing or other contract terms with these partners could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our financial performance depends heavily on our ability to attract and retain learners, and if we fail to do so, our business and operating results will suffer. Building awareness and acceptance of the online course content and certification, degree, and other credentialing programs offered on our platform among learners is critical to our ability to attract prospective learners and generate revenue. We must also continue to successfully work with our partners to develop new and compelling course content as well as additional certification, degree, and other credentialing programs to maintain the relevancy of content and keep learners interested and engaged. A significant portion of our expenses is attributable to marketing efforts dedicated to attracting potential learners to our platform. Because we generate revenue based on fees from, or as a result of, learners enrolled in the online courses and certification, degree, and other credentialing programs offered on our platform, we must attract learners in a cost-effective manner and increase the rate at which learners enroll in and complete the courses and credentialing programs offered by our partners. We also must retain learners and convert learners from our freemium model to paying customers, which depends in part on our ability to offer engaging and frequently updated content as well as quality customer support and service. The following factors, many of which are largely outside of our control, may prevent us from increasing and maintaining learner enrollment in the online courses and credentialing programs offered on our platform in a cost-effective manner or at all: 36 Table of Contents Negative perceptions about online learning. Online education programs may not be successful or operate efficiently, which in turn could create the perception that online education in general is not effective. Learners may also be reluctant to enroll in online programs due to concerns that the learning experience may be substandard, that employers may be hesitant to hire learners who received their education or credentials online, or that organizations granting professional licenses or certifications may be reluctant to grant them based on credentials, including degrees, earned through online education or training. Reduced support from partners. If partners cease to offer new and compelling course content or certification, degree, or other credentialing programs or limit our ability to promote their courses or programs, learners may reduce or terminate their use of our platform. Harm to partner reputation. Many factors affecting our partners reputations are beyond our control and can change over time, including their academic performance and ranking among educational institutions, including with respect to a specific degree, certification, or other credentialing program. Lack of interest in the certifications, degrees, or other credentials offered on our platform. We may encounter difficulties attracting learners to enroll in certification, degree, or other credentialing programs that are not in demand due to shifting employer or societal preferences and priorities or that are in emerging or unproven fields. Learner dissatisfaction. Learner dissatisfaction with the quality of the course content and presentation or the course presenters, changing views of the value of our partners programs and certification, degree, or other credentialing programs offered, and perceptions of employment prospects following completion of a program on our platform may negatively impact learner retention. Ineffective marketing efforts. Our marketing efforts, which use search engine optimization, paid search, and custom website development and deployment, may prove unsuccessful or cost inefficient. Lack of financial resources for learners. Any developments that reduce the availability of financial aid for higher education generally or that reduce the disposable income available to potential learners (including macro-economic developments such as continued or worsening recession or unemployment or the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic) could impair learners abilities to meet their financial obligations, which in turn could result in reduced enrollment and harm our ability to generate revenue. General economic conditions. Enrollment in the courses and certification, degree, and other credentialing programs offered on our platform may be affected by changes in the U.S. economy and by global economic conditions. For example, an improvement in economic conditions may reduce demand for higher educational services as potential learners may find adequate employment without additional education. Conversely, a decline in employment opportunities or economic conditions may reduce employers willingness to sponsor higher educational opportunities for employees given a lack of employer need for enhanced skill sets or an inability to fund such programs, and could discourage learners from pursuing higher education due to an inability to afford our programs or a perception that the financial investment may not result in increased earning potential or improved employment opportunities. Any of these factors could reduce enrollment and retention and could cause our costs associated with attracting and retaining learners to increase, which could materially harm our ability to increase our revenue or achieve profitability. These developments could also harm our reputation and make it more difficult for us to engage our partners for new course content or other offerings, which in turn may negatively impact our ability to expand our business and improve our financial performance. If our learners do not expand beyond our freemium offerings and free trials available on our platform, our ability to grow our business and improve our results of operations may be adversely affected. Many of our learners initially use the freemium version of our platform or free trials available on our platform, and many of our Enterprise customers engage with our platform only for a specific use case. Specifically, in March 2020, as part of our COVID-19 initiative, we began offering free unlimited access to Coursera for Campus to students and faculty at campuses around the world. Our ability to grow our business depends in part on our ability to persuade learners and other customers to expand their use of our platform to address additional use cases and to convert free subscriptions to paid subscriptions over time. Further, to continue to grow our business, it is important that our customers renew their subscriptions when existing contracts expire and that we expand our relationships with our existing customers. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions, and our customers may decide not to renew their subscriptions with a similar contract period, at the same prices and terms, with the same or a greater number of learners, or at all. If we pursue unsuccessful partner opportunities, we may forego more profitable opportunities and our operating results and growth would be harmed. 37 Table of Contents The process of identifying course content and certification, degree, and other credentialing programs that we believe will be a good fit for our platform and negotiating agreements with potential partners is complex and time-consuming. Because of the initial reluctance on the part of some educational institutions, businesses, and other organizations to embrace online delivery of education, training, and credentialing programs and the complicated approval process within some of these entities, our process to attract and engage a new partner can be lengthy. In addition, we may face resistance from university administrators or faculty members. Developing and launching a new course offering or new certification, degree, or other credentialing program can take up to 500 hours and up to a year or more. We may spend substantial effort and management resources on securing a new partnership or working with our existing and new partners to develop and launch new course content and new degree, certification, or other credentialing programs without any assurance that our efforts will result in the successful launch of a new offering or the generation of revenue. If we invest substantial resources pursuing opportunities which do not attract sufficient interest from learners, we may forego other more successful content and program development efforts, and our operating results, revenue and growth would be harmed. We must incur significant expense in technology and content development to launch a new offering or program, and we may not generate sufficient revenue from a new offering to offset our costs. Our platform enables our partners to offer learners the opportunity to enroll in live, or synchronous, courses and programs and pre-produced, or asynchronous, educational content that can be accessed at any time. To launch a new course offering or new certification, degree, or other credentialing program, whether synchronous or asynchronous, we must integrate our platform with the various learner information and other operating systems our partners use to manage functions within their institutions. In addition, our content development team must work closely with that partners faculty members or staff to produce engaging online course content, and we must commence learner acquisition activities. During the term of our agreement with the partner, we are responsible for the costs associated with maintaining our technology platform and providing non-academic and other support for learners enrolled in the program. We invest significant resources in these new programs from the beginning of our relationship with a partner, including marketing and other learner acquisition costs to attract and fulfill enrollment cohorts for a program, and there is no guarantee that we will ever recoup these costs. In addition, delays in the implementation of a new program, including Specialization or Degrees programs, could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Because we receive fees from learners enrolling in, and, in some cases, completing, courses and certification, degree, or other credentialing programs on our platform, we only begin to recover these costs once learners are enrolled and begin paying fees. In addition, in some cases, learners may audit a course or courses toward a certification free of charge and elect not to pay for the certification itself. Further, our Degrees services revenue is determined based on a percentage of the total tuition collected from Degrees students by the university partner. As a result, the revenue we earn from the Degrees offerings on our platform is dependent on the number of learners enrolled in the Degrees program and the tuition charged by the university partner. The time that it takes for us to recover our investment in a new course or program depends on a variety of factors, primarily our learner acquisition costs, learner retention rate, and the rate of growth in learner enrollment in and, in some cases, completion of, the course or program. Because of the lengthy period required to recoup our investment in a program, unexpected developments beyond our control could occur that result in the partner ceasing or significantly curtailing a course offering or certification, degree, or other credentialing program before we generate any revenue therefrom. In addition, partners generally do not grant us exclusive rights to their content, and any such arrangements are of limited duration. As such, partners may choose to offer the same content on one of our competitors platforms, which could limit the number of learners enrolled in such partners courses or programs on our platform. In addition, if a partner were to terminate an existing program, learners enrolled in that program may stop using our platform, which in turn would negatively impact our learner enrollment generally. As a result of any of the foregoing, we may ultimately be unable to recover the full investment that we make in a new offering or achieve any level of profitability from such offering. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform. Our ability to broaden our customer base, particularly our Enterprise customer base, and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform, will depend to a significant extent on the ability of our sales and marketing organizations to work together to drive our sales pipeline and cultivate customer and partner relationships to drive revenue growth. Our marketing efforts include the use of search engine optimization, paid search, and custom website development and deployment. 38 Table of Contents We have invested in and plan to continue expanding our sales and marketing organizations, both domestically and internationally. Identifying, recruiting, and training sales personnel will require significant time, expense, and attention. If we are unable to hire, develop, and retain talented sales or marketing personnel, if our new sales or marketing personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time (including as a result of working remotely in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic), or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective, our ability to broaden our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our platform could be harmed. In addition, the investments we make in our sales and marketing organization will occur in advance of experiencing benefits from such investments, making it difficult to determine in a timely manner if we are efficiently allocating our resources in these areas. If we fail to quickly and efficiently scale our operations to support the needs of new and existing partners, our reputation and our revenue will suffer. Our continued growth and potential profitability depends on our ability to successfully scale our operations to support newly launched course offerings or new certification, degree, or other credentialing programs with our partners. We plan to continue to hire new employees, particularly in our sales and marketing team and our technology and content development teams. If we cannot adequately train these new employees, we may not be successful in attracting potential learners to our platform, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue, and our partners and learners could lose confidence in our platform. If we cannot quickly and efficiently scale up our technology and operations to handle increases in the volume and rate of learner enrollment and of new course offerings or new certification, degree, or other credentialing programs, our partners and learners experiences with our platform may suffer, which in turn could damage our reputation. Our ability to effectively manage any significant increase in the volume of new offerings or programs or in the rate or volume of learner enrollment and retention will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: assist our partners in developing and producing an increased volume of engaging course content that is accessible to a wide variety of learners; successfully introduce new features and enhancements on our platform; maintain a high level of functionality and cross-functionality, and technological robustness of our platform; and deliver high-quality professional services and support (including training, implementation, and consulting services) to our partners, their faculty and employees, and learners on our platform. Establishing new course offerings and new certification, degree, or other credentialing programs or expanding existing ones will require us to make investments in management and key staff, increase capital expenditures, incur additional marketing expenses, and potentially reallocate other resources. If we are unable to scale our platform, maintain and increase its interoperability, develop an increasingly robust mix of engaging content or otherwise manage new offerings effectively, our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability would be impaired, and the quality of our solutions and the satisfaction of our partners and learners could suffer. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs or requirements, our platform may become less competitive. Our future success depends on our ability to adapt and enhance our platform. To attract new learners and partners and increase revenue from existing learners and partners, we will need to continuously enhance and improve our offerings to meet learner and partner needs at prices that our customers are willing to pay. Such efforts will require adding new functionality and responding to technological advancements, which will increase our research and development costs. If we are unable to develop content that addresses learners and partners needs, or enhance and improve our platform in a timely manner, we may not be able to maintain or increase market acceptance of our platform. Further, many of our competitors expend a considerably greater amount of funds on their research and development programs, and those that do not may be acquired by larger companies that would allocate greater resources to our competitors research and development programs. If we fail to maintain adequate research and development resources or compete effectively with the research and development programs of our competitors, our business could be harmed. Our ability to grow is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. Access to and use of our platform is provided via the Internet, which, itself, was disruptive to the previous enterprise software model. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver online learning programs at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently or more securely, and if we fail to adopt such technologies or do so in a timely manner, our ability to compete would be adversely affected. If we fail to increase sales of our Enterprise offering, or if we need to change the contract terms associated therewith, including with respect to pricing or contract length, it could negatively affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 39 Table of Contents In addition to our offerings for individuals, we sell our Enterprise offering to businesses, academic institutions, and governments. These customers utilize our platform to provide relevant training, skills, and credentialing programs to current and potential employees and citizens through our online platform. To maintain and expand our relationships with these entities, we must demonstrate the value, benefits, and return on investment of providing education, training, and credentialing through our online platform and achieve acceptance from both employees and these entities of the merits and legitimacy of our business model. Our growth strategy is dependent upon increasing sales of our Enterprise offering to these entities, which we offer on a subscription basis. We have a limited history with our subscription and pricing models and changes in our models could adversely affect our revenue and financial position. In addition, as the market for our learning platform grows (if ever), as new competitors introduce competitive applications or services, or as we enter into new international markets, we may be unable to attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing models we have historically used, or for contract lengths consistent with our historical averages. For example, we often enter into subscription arrangements with businesses, academic institutions, and governments in which we offer more favorable pricing terms in exchange for larger total contract values or longer contract terms. Changes to our pricing models or contract lengths could negatively impact our revenue and financial position, and we may have increased difficulty achieving profitability. As we drive a greater portion of our revenue through subscriptions to our Enterprise platform, this may also result in reduced margins in the future. We recognize revenue from Enterprise customer subscriptions ratably over the subscription term of the underlying contract, which generally ranges from one to three years. Consequently, a decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any quarter will not be fully reflected in revenue or other results of operations in that quarter but will negatively affect our revenue and other results of operations across future quarters. Further, any increases in the average term of subscriptions would result in revenue for those contracts being recognized over longer periods of time with less positive impact on our results of operations in the near term. Accordingly, such changes could adversely affect our financial performance, cause us to miss industry or analyst expectations and cause our stock price to decline. As we seek to increase sales of our Enterprise offering, we face upfront sales costs, higher customer acquisition costs, more complex customer requirements, and discount requirements. In addition, entities that subscribe to our Enterprise platform may elect to begin to use our platform on a limited basis, but nevertheless require education and interactions with our sales team, which increases our upfront investment in the sales effort with no guarantee that our platform will be used widely enough across their organization to justify our upfront investment. If we are unable to maintain or increase the number of subscriptions to our Enterprise platform while mitigating the risks associated with serving subscribers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will suffer. If we fail to maintain sufficient high-quality content from partners, we will be unable to attract and retain customers. Our success depends on our ability to provide learners and partners with the information they seek, which in turn depends on the quantity and quality of the content provided by our partners. We may be unable to provide learners with the information they seek if our partners do not contribute content that is helpful and reliable, or if they remove content they previously submitted. We believe that many of our new learners find us by word of mouth and other non-paid referrals from existing learners. If existing learners and partners are dissatisfied with their experience on our platform, they may stop accessing our content and may stop referring others to us. Likewise, if existing learners do not find our content appealing, whether because of a negative experience or declining interest in or relevancy of the content, they may stop referring others to us. In turn, if partners perceive that our platform lacks an adequate learner audience, partners may be less willing to provide content to offer on our platform, and the experience of learners could be further negatively impacted. If we are unable to retain existing learners and partners and attract new learners and partners who contribute to an active community, our growth prospects would be harmed and our business could be adversely affected. If we fail to manage the growth of our business both in terms of scale and complexity, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 40 Table of Contents Our revenue increased from $53.8 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 to $88.4 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure, facilities, and other resources, and we face challenges of integrating, developing, training, and motivating a rapidly growing employee base in our various offices around the world and maintaining our company culture across multiple offices and internationally. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to expand our sales and marketing and content development personnel, and technology, finance and administration teams, as well as our facilities and infrastructure. We will also be required to refine our operational, financial, and management controls and reporting systems and procedures. If we fail to efficiently manage this expansion of our business, our costs and expenses may increase more than anticipated and we may not successfully expand our partnerships with businesses, governments, educational institutions, and other organizations, enhance our platform and technology-enabled services, increase the volume of new course content and credentialing programs developed by our partners, attract a sufficient number of learners in a cost-effective manner, satisfy the requirements of our existing partners, increase the volume of subscriptions to our Enterprise platform, respond to competitive challenges, or otherwise execute our business plan. Although our business has experienced significant growth in the past, we cannot provide any assurance that our revenue will continue to grow at the same rate or at all in the future. Our ability to effectively manage any significant growth of our business will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to: effectively recruit, integrate, train, and motivate a large number of new employees while retaining existing employees and effectively executing our business plan; continue to improve our operational, financial, and management controls; protect and further develop our strategic assets, including our intellectual property rights; and make sound business decisions in light of the scrutiny associated with operating as a public company. These activities will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources, and our growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. We may be unable to effectively manage any future growth in an efficient, cost-effective or timely manner, or at all. Any failure to successfully implement systems enhancements and improvements will likely negatively impact our ability to manage our expected growth, ensure uninterrupted operation of key business systems, and comply with the rules and regulations that are applicable to public reporting companies. Moreover, if we do not effectively manage the growth of our business and operations, the quality of our platform could suffer, which could negatively affect our reputation, results of operations, and overall business. We face competition from established companies as well as other emerging companies, which could divert partners to our competitors, result in pricing pressure, impact our market share, and significantly reduce our revenue. The market for global adult online learning is highly fragmented and rapidly evolving. We expect alternative modes of learning to continue to accelerate as players in this industry introduce new and more competitive products, enhancements, and bundles. Participants in the global adult online learning ecosystem include: Direct-to-consumer, online education companies: edX Inc., FutureLearn Limited, and Udemy, Inc.; Companies that provide technology solutions and services to universities offering online learning programs: 2U, Inc., Eruditus Learning Solutions Pte. Ltd., Noodle Partners, Inc., and upGrad Education Private Limited; Corporate training companies: A Cloud Guru Ltd., Degreed, Inc., LinkedIn Corporation through its LinkedIn Learning services, Pluralsight, Inc., and Udacity, Inc.; Providers of free educational resources: Khan Academy, Inc., The Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., and Google LLC (Google) through its YouTube services; and Internal online degree platforms: Online degree programs developed in-house by universities. We expect these and other existing competitors and new entrants to the online learning market to continually revise and improve their business models. If these or other market participants introduce new or improved delivery of online education and technology-enabled services that are more compelling or widely accepted than ours, our ability to grow our revenue and achieve profitability could suffer. Several new and existing companies in the online education industry provide or may provide offerings similar to what we offer on our platform, and these companies may pursue relationships with our partners that may reduce the content our partners produce for our platform. In addition, educational institutions, as well as businesses, governments, and other organizations, may choose to continue using or develop their own online learning or training solutions in-house, rather than pay for our solutions. 41 Table of Contents Some of our competitors and potential competitors have significantly greater resources than we do. Increased competition may result in pricing pressure for us in terms of the percentage of tuition we are able to negotiate to receive from a partner. The competitive landscape may also result in a longer and more complex process of recruiting and maintaining current and prospective partners or a decrease in our market share, any of which could negatively affect our revenue and future operating results and our ability to grow our business. A number of factors could impact our ability to compete, including: the availability or development of alternative online education services that are more compelling than ours; changes in pricing policies and terms offered by our competitors or by us; the ability to adapt to new technologies and changes in requirements of our partners and learners; learner acquisition and retention costs; the ability of our current and future competitors to establish relationships with businesses, governments, educational institutions, and other organizations to enhance their services and expand their markets; and industry consolidation and the number and rate of new entrants. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In addition, competition may intensify as our competitors raise additional capital and as established companies in other market segments or geographic markets expand into our market segments or geographic markets. If we cannot compete successfully against our competitors, our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability could be impaired. If for-profit postsecondary institutions, which offer online education alternatives different from ours, perform poorly, it could nonetheless tarnish the reputation of online education as a whole, which could impair our ability to grow our business. For-profit postsecondary institutions, many of which provide course offerings predominantly online, are under intense regulatory and other scrutiny, which has led to media attention that has sometimes portrayed that sector in an unflattering light. Some for-profit online school operators have been subject to governmental investigations alleging the misuse of public funds, financial irregularities, and failure to achieve positive outcomes for learners, including the inability to obtain employment in their fields. These allegations have attracted significant adverse media coverage and have prompted legislative hearings and regulatory responses. These investigations have focused on specific companies and individuals, as well as entire industries in the case of recruiting practices by for-profit higher education companies. Even though we do not market our solutions to these institutions, this negative media attention may nevertheless add to the skepticism about online higher education generally, including our solutions. The impact of these negative public perceptions on our current and future business is difficult to predict. If these few situations, or any additional misconduct, cause all online learning programs to be viewed by the public or policymakers unfavorably, we may find it difficult to enter into or renew agreements with our partners or attract additional learners for our partners programs. In addition, this perception or any further governmental investigation could serve as the impetus for more restrictive legislation, which could limit our future business opportunities. Moreover, allegations of abuse of federal financial aid funds and other statutory violations against for-profit higher education companies could negatively impact our ability to succeed due to increased regulation and decreased demand. Any of these factors could negatively impact our ability to increase our partner base and grow our partners programs, which would make it difficult to continue to grow our business and could negatively affect our stock price. We may acquire other companies or technologies which could divert our managements attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, and otherwise disrupt our operations and harm our results of operations. We may choose to expand by making acquisitions that could be material to our business. To date, we have only completed one acquisition, and our ability as an organization to successfully acquire and integrate technologies or businesses is unproven and limited. Acquisitions involve many risks, including the following: an acquisition may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition because it may require us to incur charges or assume substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisition; we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; 42 Table of Contents an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business and distract our management; an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company we acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from either company; an acquisition may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience or where competitors have stronger market positions; we may face challenges inherent in effectively managing an increased number of employees in diverse locations; we may experience strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions would limit other potential uses for our cash; if we incur debt to fund such acquisitions, such debt may subject us to material restrictions on our ability to conduct our business; we may incur impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets or goodwill; and to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity or equity-linked securities in connection with an acquisition, existing stockholders may be diluted. We may not succeed in addressing these or other risks, which could harm our business and operating results. We may invest in private companies and if the value of any such equity investments were to decline, it could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may from time to time evaluate or make equity investments in private companies where we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence over results. Investments in private companies are inherently risky. The companies in which we may invest include early-stage companies that may still be developing products and services with limited cash to support the development, marketing, and sales of their products, and whose financial statements are often unaudited. Further, our ability to liquidate such investments will typically be dependent on a liquidity event, such as a public offering or acquisition, as no public market currently exists for the securities held in the investees. Valuations of privately-held companies are inherently complex and uncertain due to the lack of a liquid market for the securities of such companies. If we determine that any of our investments in such companies have experienced a decline in value, we will recognize an expense to adjust the carrying value to its estimated fair value. Negative changes in the estimated fair value of private companies in which we invest could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our directors may encounter conflicts of interest involving us and other entities with which they may be affiliated, including matters that involve corporate opportunities. Most of our directors are, and any future directors may be, affiliated with other entities, including venture capital or private equity funds or businesses that may be complementary, competitive, or potentially competitive to our company. They may also in the future become affiliated with entities that are engaged in business or other activities similar to our business. Additionally, all of our officers and directors, in the course of their other business activities, may become aware of investments, business opportunities, or information which may be appropriate for presentation to us as well as to other entities to which they owe a fiduciary duty. As a result, directors and officers may encounter perceived or actual conflicts of interest involving us and other entities with which they are or become affiliated, including matters that involve corporate opportunities. For example, a portfolio company of a director-affiliated venture fund may become a competitor of ours or a potential strategic partner. In addition, as our growth strategy includes considering potential acquisitions, it is possible an entity affiliated with one of our directors could be an acquisition target or a competitive acquiror. Further, to the extent we engage in transactions with any director-affiliated entity, it could create actual, or the perception of, additional conflicts of interest, including with respect to our ability to negotiate terms equivalent to those that could be obtained in an arms-length negotiation with an unaffiliated third party. For instance, Dr. Ng, one of our co-founders and Chairman of our board of directors, owns DeepLearning.AI Corp., a developer of educational content relating to artificial intelligence that offers courses through our platform. Although we view DeepLearning.AI Corp. as a valued business partner and believe our agreement is on commercially reasonable terms, there may nonetheless be a perception of a conflict of interest. As a result of the foregoing, our directors and officers may have conflicts of interest in determining to which entity particular opportunities or information should be presented. If, as a result of such potential conflicts, we are deprived of investment, business, or information, the execution of our business plan and our ability to effectively compete may be adversely affected. Our directors are also not obligated to commit their time and attention exclusively to our business and accordingly, they may encounter conflicts of interest in allocating their time and resources between us and other entities with which they are affiliated. If we do not retain our senior management team and key employees, we may not be able to sustain our growth or achieve our business objectives. 43 Table of Contents Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our senior management team, and in particular of our Chief Executive Officer. The expertise of our senior management in negotiating with businesses, governments, educational institutions, and other organizations is critical in navigating the complex approval processes of these entities. We do not maintain key-person insurance on any of our employees, including our senior management team, and our management and other employees are generally employed on an at-will basis. The loss of the services of any individual on our senior management team would make it more difficult to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. Our future success also depends heavily on the retention of our sales and marketing, data science, technology and content development, and support teams to continue to attract and retain qualified learners in our partners programs, thereby generating revenue for us. In particular, our technology and content development employees provide the technical expertise underlying our technology-enabled services that support our online course offerings and the certification, degree and other credentialing programs offered on our platform, as well as the learners enrolled in these programs. Competition for these employees is intense. We may be unable to attract or retain these key personnel that are critical to our success, resulting in harm to our relationships with partners, loss of expertise or know-how, and unanticipated recruitment and training costs. We may need additional capital in the future to pursue our business objectives. Additional capital may not be available on favorable terms, or at all, which could compromise our ability to grow our business. We believe that our existing cash balances, in addition to the proceeds we received from our initial public offering, will be sufficient to meet our minimum anticipated cash requirements for at least the next twelve months. We may, however, need to raise additional funds to respond to business challenges or opportunities, accelerate our growth, develop new offerings, or enhance our platform. If we seek to raise additional capital, it may not be available on favorable terms or may not be available at all. In addition, if we seek debt financing, we may be subject to onerous terms and restrictive covenants. Lack of sufficient capital resources could significantly limit our ability to manage our business and to take advantage of business and strategic opportunities. Further, any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or issuance of debt securities with an equity component would dilute our stock ownership. If adequate additional funds are not available if and when needed, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate material parts of our business strategy. We believe our long-term value as a company will be greater if we focus on growth, which may negatively impact our results of operations in the near term. We believe our long-term value as a company will be greater if we focus on longer-term growth over short-term results. As a result, our results of operations may be negatively impacted in the near term relative to a strategy focused on maximizing short-term profitability. Significant expenditures on sales and marketing efforts, developing and enhancing our platform, and expanding our research and development efforts may not ultimately grow our business or lead to expected long-term results. If our strategy does not lead to expected growth or if we are ultimately unable to achieve results of operations at the levels expected by securities analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock could decline. Our current operations are international in scope and we plan to expand our international operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in international operations. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and subjects us to regulatory, economic, and political risks that are different from those in the United States. We have employees in Bulgaria, Canada, India, the United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, and Australia in several functional areas, including product and software development, sales and marketing, talent recruitment, and general facilities management. Our international operations subject us to the compensation and benefits regulations of those jurisdictions, as well as other employer duties and obligations, that differ from the compensation and benefits regulations and duties and obligations in the United States. Further, enrollments of learners from other countries requires us to comply with international data privacy regulations of those countries. Failure to comply with international regulations or to adequately adapt to international markets could harm our ability to successfully operate our business and pursue our business goals. We intend to expand our international operations and continue to establish a worldwide partner and learner base. Our expansion efforts into international markets may not be successful. In addition, we face risks in doing business internationally, including risks associated with sales to international governments and entities, that could constrain our operations, increase our cost structure, and compromise our growth prospects, including: 44 Table of Contents the need to localize and adapt online certification, degree, and other credentialing programs for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and ensuring that these programs enable our partners to comply with local education laws and regulations; local laws restricting learners from pursuing certifications, degrees, or other credentials through online education platforms such as ours or limiting the availability of financial aid to finance online education; data privacy laws that may require data to be handled in a specific manner, including storing and processing data solely on local servers, which is a capability we currently do not have; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, including in countries in which foreign employees may become part of labor unions, employee representative bodies, workers councils or collective bargaining agreements, and challenges relating to work stoppages or slowdowns; different pricing environments, longer sales cycles, longer accounts receivable payment cycles, and collections issues; new and different sources of competition and practices which may favor local competitors; weaker protection for intellectual property and other legal rights than in the United States and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property and other rights outside of the United States; compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations, including employment, tax, privacy and data protection, and anti-bribery laws and regulations such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; risks associated with foreign tax regimes, trade tariffs, or similar issues, which could negatively impact international adoption of our offerings; adverse tax consequences, including the potential for required withholding taxes for our overseas employees; and regional and economic political conditions. Further, as we continue to expand internationally, we will become more exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Future agreements with international partners may provide for payments to us to be denominated in local currencies, and in such cases, fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies could impact our operating results when translated into U.S. dollars. Further, the strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the real cost of our platform for our learners and partners outside of the United States, which could lead to the lengthening of our sales cycle or reduced demand for our platform. If we are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by natural disasters, public health crises, political crises, or other catastrophic events. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected in the event of earthquakes, floods, fires, telecommunications failures, blackouts or other power losses, break-ins, acts of terrorism, political crises, inclement weather, public health crises, pandemics or endemics, or other catastrophic events. In particular, our executive offices are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, an earthquake-sensitive area and one that has been increasingly vulnerable to wildfires, and, damage to or total destruction of our executive offices resulting from earthquakes may not be covered in whole or in part by any insurance we may have. If floods, fire, inclement weather including extreme rain, wind, heat, or cold, or accidents due to human error were to occur and cause damage to our properties, or if our operations were interrupted by telecommunications failures, blackouts, acts of terrorism, political or geopolitical crises or public health crises, our results of operations would suffer, especially if such events were to occur during peak periods. We may not be able to effectively shift our operations due to disruptions arising from the occurrence of such events, and our business could be affected adversely as a result. Our metrics and market estimates used to evaluate our performance are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those estimates may harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. 45 Table of Contents The metrics we use to evaluate our growth, measure our performance and make strategic decisions are calculated using internal company data and have not been validated by a third party. Our metrics and market estimates may differ from estimates published by third parties or from similarly titled metrics of our competitors or peers due to differences in methodology or the assumptions on which we rely. Additionally, the metrics and forecasts in this prospectus relating to the size and expected growth of our addressable market may prove to be inaccurate. Even if the markets in which we compete meet the size estimates and growth forecasted in this prospectus, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. If securities analysts or investors do not consider our or market metrics to be accurate representations of our business, or if we discover material inaccuracies in such estimates, then the market price of our common stock could decline, our reputation and brand could be harmed, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Regulatory Matters and Litigation If our partners fail to comply with international, federal and state education laws and regulations, including any applicable state authorizations for their programs, it could harm our business and reputation. Higher education is heavily regulated in the United States and most international jurisdictions. For example, numerous states require education providers to be licensed or authorized in such state simply to enroll persons located in that state into an online education program or to conduct related activities such as marketing. If any of our partners were found to be in non-compliance with any of the laws, regulations, standards or policies related to state authorization, the partner could lose their ability to operate in certain states, and if such non-compliance extended to a material contingent of our partners and such partners lost the ability to operate in certain states, our revenue could decline. Additionally, the vast majority of our U.S.-based college and university partners participate in the federal student financial assistance programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (HEA), and are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Department of Education (DOE), as well as various state agencies, licensing boards and accrediting agencies. To participate in the Title IV programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE, and be certified by the DOE as an eligible institution. The regulations, standards, and policies of our college and university partners regulators are complex, change frequently and are often subject to differing interpretation. Changes in, or new interpretations of, applicable laws, regulations or standards could compromise our college and university partners accreditation, authorization to offer online learning in various states or countries, permissible activities, or access to federal funds under the Title IV programs. We cannot predict with certainty how the requirements applicable to our college and university partners will be interpreted, including in the case of new laws or regulations for which no, or insufficient, interpretative guidance exists, or whether our college and university partners will be able to comply with these requirements in the future. Some regulations were designed to regulate in-person, correspondence or other types of learning experiences not offered online and may be difficult to interpret or apply to the types of programs offered by our partners on our platform. In addition, there is no assurance that degrees or certifications earned through an institution in one jurisdiction will be recognized as valid or sufficient in other jurisdictions, including internationally, for employment, to satisfy prerequisites for advanced degrees, or other opportunities. Our international college and university partners are subject to similarly extensive legislation, regulation, and oversight. Our future growth could be impaired if we or our partners fail to obtain timely approval from applicable regulatory agencies to offer new programs, make substantive changes to existing programs or expand their programs into or within certain states. Our U.S. partners are required to obtain the appropriate approvals from the DOE and applicable state and accrediting regulatory agencies for new programs, which may be conditioned, delayed, or denied in a manner that could impair our future growth. Similar approvals and reviews may be required for programs from our partners based outside the United States, and for our partners to offer programs in other countries. Education regulatory agencies may experience increases in the volume of requests for approvals as a result of new distance learning programs and adjustments to new regulations. Any such increases in volume could result in delays to various approvals our partner institutions request, and any such delays could in turn delay the timing of our ability to generate revenue from our partners programs. 46 Table of Contents Our partners, both U.S. and international, may be required to be authorized in certain states to offer online programs, engage in advertising or recruiting and operate externships, internships, technical training, or other forms of field experience, depending on state law. Although many of our programs are offered by U.S.-based higher education institutions that hold such authorizations or participate in an appropriate state reciprocity agreement such as the State Authorization Reciprocity Agreement (SARA), other partners are not traditional education institutions or operate outside the United States and do not hold such state authorizations. Further, even U.S.-based higher education institutions could lose a necessary authorization either because it lapses or is revoked by a state agency. Such partners could also lack, or lose, the ability to participate in a reciprocity agreement that provides the basis for their authorization in multiple states. For example, California higher education institutions currently do not participate in SARA. Unless we choose to seek authorization in our own name, which we have not done to date, the loss of or failure by a partner to obtain a necessary state authorization would, among other things, limit our ability to deliver content to learners in that state, either for degree or nondegree programs, render the partner and its learners in that state ineligible to participate in Title IV or other financial aid programs, diminish the attractiveness of the partners programs, and ultimately compromise our ability to generate revenue. For example, in Iowa, while the states regulations and their application to our business are subject to differing interpretations, we may need to limit or prevent enrollments in certain programs offered by partners based outside the United States because they do not meet the requirement that institutions be accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the DOE. In addition, if we or any of our partners fail to comply with any state agencys rules, regulations, or standards beyond authorizations, the state agency could limit the ability of the partner to offer programs in that state or limit our ability to perform our contractual obligations to our partner in that state. We or our partners may also be required to obtain appropriate approvals under international education laws and regulations. For example, a recent Indian regulation relating to online higher education requires, among other things, that learning platforms utilized by Indian universities to offer online degrees be approved by a technical committee of the Indian regulator. Seeking such approval could be a complex and time-consuming process, since the requirement is new, and as such there is no certainty as to the timing and standard of review for international platforms, or even whether international platforms are permitted to apply for approval. In addition, we may lack the knowledge and resources to successfully pursue an application without the support of one or more of our Indian university partners. If we or our partners fail to obtain or maintain necessary authorizations, or we or our partners violate applicable laws and regulations, learners in relevant programs could be adversely affected and we could lose our ability to operate in that state, and our ability to generate revenue would be adversely affected. If our partners fail to maintain institutional accreditation for their programs, our revenue could be materially adversely affected. The loss or suspension of a partners accreditation or other adverse action by the partners institutional accreditor would render the institution or its program ineligible to participate in Title IV programs or similar government funding programs that may be in place and available to students enrolled at our Degrees partners based outside of the United States, could prevent the partner from offering certain educational programs, and could make it impossible for the graduates of the partners program to practice the profession for which they trained. If any of these results occurs, it could hurt our ability to generate revenue from that program. Our activities are subject to international, federal and state education accessibility, and consumer protection laws and regulations and other requirements. As a service provider to higher education institutions both in the United States and internationally, either directly or indirectly through our arrangements with partners, we are required to comply with certain education laws and regulations. Our platform is also subject to various requirements relating to accessibility for learners with disabilities. Certain requirements of Title II and Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act apply to us and to our public and private university partners, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1974 (the Rehabilitation Act) applies to our partners that receive federal funding, and Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, which sets accessibility standards for websites of federal departments and agencies, applies to certain of our government customers. Further, in the absence of definitive federal rulemaking, the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.1, a set of recommendations and technical standards for making websites accessible to individuals with disabilities published by the World Wide Web Consortium, have become the effective standard for learner-facing aspects of our platform. We may not be successful in ensuring that our offerings and services meet these changing statutory and regulatory requirements, which could make our solutions less attractive to our partners and customers, and we expect to incur ongoing costs of compliance. In addition, we have structured our learner subscription plans to charge learners on a recurring basis, and as a result we must comply with complex federal and state laws and regulations related to automatic renewal, unfair competition, and false advertising. These laws, among other things, require us to make specific disclosures in specific ways at the time a learner purchases a subscription, and obtain the learners express consent to the recurring charges. The penalties for failing to comply with these requirements can be severe, including rendering the subscription contract null and void, and allowing the consumer to treat any services provided under such a contract as a gift, and any failure to comply with these requirements may constitute violations of more general consumer protection laws. 47 Table of Contents Failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations could result in breach of contract and indemnification claims and could cause damage to our reputation and impair our ability to grow our business and achieve profitability. Activities of the U.S. Congress, such as changes in spending policies or budget priorities for government funding of colleges, universities, schools and other education providers, could result in adverse legislation or regulatory action. Our partners include colleges, universities, and other education providers, many of which depend substantially on government funding. Accordingly, any general decrease, delay, or change in federal, state, or local funding for colleges, universities, and other education providers could cause our current and potential partners to reduce their use of our platform, or delay development of content for our platform, any of which could cause us to lose learners and revenue. In addition, the increased scrutiny and results-based accountability initiatives in the education sector, as well as ongoing policy differences in Congress regarding spending levels, could lead to significant changes in connection with the upcoming reauthorization of the HEA or otherwise. These changes may place additional regulatory burdens on postsecondary schools participating in the Title IV programs generally, and specific changes may be targeted at companies like us that serve higher education within the United States. The adoption of any laws or regulations that limit our ability to provide our bundled services to our partners could compromise our ability to offer their programs or make our solutions less attractive to them. Congress could also enact laws or regulations that require us to modify our practices in ways that could increase our costs. Regulatory activities and initiatives of the DOE may have similar consequences for our business even in the absence of Congressional action. No assurances can be given as to how any new rules may affect our business. Our business model has been validated by a DOE dear colleague letter, but such validation is not codified by statute or regulation and may be subject to change. Each institution that participates in Title IV programs agrees, as a condition of its eligibility to participate in those programs, that it will not provide any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based in any part, directly or indirectly, upon success in securing enrollments or the award of financial aid, to any person or entity who is engaged in any student recruitment or admission activity, or in making decisions regarding the award of Title IV HEA program funds. The vast majority of our U.S.-based partners participate in the Title IV programs. Although this rule, referred to as the incentive compensation rule, generally prohibits entities or individuals from receiving incentive-based compensation payments for the successful recruitment, admission, or enrollment of learners, the DOE provided clarifying guidance in March 2011 interpreting the incentive compensation rule as permitting tuition revenue-sharing arrangements known as the bundled services exception. Our current business model relies heavily on the bundled services exception to enter into tuition revenue-sharing agreements with partner colleges and universities. The dear colleague letter (DCL) issued by the DOE on March 17, 2011 sets forth the official guidance of the DOE regarding various regulations that were implemented around that time. The DCL affirms that [t]he Department generally views payment based on the amount of tuition generated as an indirect payment of incentive compensation based on success in recruitment and therefore a prohibited basis upon which to measure the value of the services provided. The DCL, however, in Example 2-B, clarified an important exception to this prohibition for a business model that complies with the bundled services exception: A third party that is not affiliated with the institution it serves and is not affiliated with any other institution that provides educational services, which third party provides bundled services to the institution including marketing, enrollment application assistance, recruitment services, course support for online delivery of courses, the provision of technology, placement services for internships, or student career counseling, may receive from an institution an amount based on tuition generated for the institution by the third-partys activities for all bundled services that are offered and provided collectively, as long as the third party does not make prohibited compensation payments to its employees, and the institution does not pay the third party separately for student recruitment services provided by the entity. The DCL guidance indicates that an arrangement that complies with Example 2-B will be deemed to be in compliance with the incentive compensation provisions of the HEA and the DOEs regulations. Our business model and contractual arrangements with our U.S.-based partners are designed to follow Example 2-B in the DCL. However, the inherent ambiguity in the DCL and the incentive compensation rule creates the risk that DOE or a court, including, notably, in the context of a whistleblower claim under the federal False Claims Act, could disagree with that interpretation. If the DOE or a court determined that our business model or even the practices of a subcontractor did not meet the bundled services exception, we could have contractual obligations to our U.S.-based partners such as indemnifying a partner from private claims or government investigations or demands for repayment of Title IV program funds. Even if such claims are without merit, they could cause reputational harm, cause us to incur significant defense costs, result in the termination of our U.S.-based partner agreements, and negatively impact our ability to enter into new agreements. 48 Table of Contents Further, because the bundled services rule was promulgated by agency guidance through the DCL and is not codified by statute or regulation, there is risk that the exception could be altered or removed without prior notice, public comment period, or other administrative procedural requirements that accompany formal agency rulemaking. Due to the recent U.S. federal election and resulting administrative changes, we can offer no assurances as to whether the DCL represents the current interpretation of the DOE, and the bundled services exception could be reviewed, altered, or vacated in the future. In addition, the legal weight the DCL would carry in litigation over the propriety of any specific compensation arrangements under the HEA or the incentive compensation rule is uncertain. We can offer no assurances as to whether the exception in the DCL would be upheld by a court or how it would be interpreted. The revision, removal, or invalidation of the bundled services exception by Congress, the DOE, or a court, whether in an action involving our company or our partners, or in action that does not involve us, could require us to change our business model and renegotiate the terms of our college and university partner agreements and could compromise our ability to generate revenue. If we violate the misrepresentation rule, or similar federal and state regulatory requirements, we could face fines, sanctions and other liabilities. Under our contracts with U.S.-based partners, we are required to comply with other regulations promulgated by the DOE and comparable state laws that affect our marketing activities, including the misrepresentation rule. The misrepresentation rule is broad in scope and applies to statements our employees or agents may make about the nature of a partners program, a partners financial charges or the employability of a partners program graduates. A violation of this rule or other federal or state regulations applicable to our marketing activities by an employee or agent performing services for partners could damage our reputation, result in the termination of partner agreements, require us to pay fines or other monetary penalties, and require us to pay the fees associated with indemnifying a partner from private claims or government investigations. We are required to comply with The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), and failure to do so could harm our reputation and negatively affect our business. FERPA generally prohibits an institution of higher education from disclosing personally identifiable information from a learners education records without the learners consent. Our U.S.-based university degree and certificate partners and Coursera for Campus customers and their learners disclose to us certain information that originates from or composes a learner education record under FERPA. Through our contracts to provide services to institutions, we are indirectly subject to FERPA, and we may not transfer or otherwise disclose any personally identifiable information from a learner record to another party other than in a manner permitted under the statute and any applicable contract. If we violate FERPA, it could result in a material breach of agreement with one or more of our partners and could harm our reputation. Further, in the event that we disclose learner information in violation of FERPA, the DOE could require a partner to suspend our access to their learner information for at least five years. We could face liability, or our reputation might be harmed, as a result of the activities of our customers and educators for content on or accessible through our platform. In some instances, various articles or other third-party content may be posted to our platform by customers and educators for use in class discussions or within asynchronous lessons. The laws governing the fair use of these third-party materials are imprecise and adjudicated on a case-by-case basis, which makes it challenging to adopt and implement appropriately balanced institutional policies governing these practices. As a result, we could incur liability to third parties for the unauthorized duplication, distribution or other use of this material. In addition, third parties may allege misappropriation, plagiarism, or similar claims related to content appearing on our platform. Any such claims, including claims of defamation, disparagement, negligence, warranty, misappropriation, or personal harm, could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our various liability insurance coverages may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter or cease our uses of such material, which may include changing or removing content from courses or altering the functionality of our platform, or be required to pay monetary damages. While we rely on a variety of statutory and common-law frameworks and defenses, including those provided by the Digital Millennium Copyright Act of 1998 (DMCA), the Communications Decency Act (CDA), the fair-use doctrine in the United States and the E-Commerce Directive in the European Union, differences between statutes, limitations on immunity, requirements to maintain immunity, and moderation efforts in the many jurisdictions in which we operate may affect our ability to rely on these frameworks and defenses, or create uncertainty regarding liability for information or content uploaded by partners or learners or otherwise contributed by third-parties to our platform. Moreover, regulators in the United States and in other countries in which we operate may introduce new regulatory regimes that increase potential liability for information or content available on our platform, or which impose additional obligations to monitor such information or content, which could increase our costs. We are subject to governmental export and import controls and anti-corruption laws and regulations that could impair our ability to compete in international markets and subject us to liability if we are not in full compliance with applicable laws. 49 Table of Contents Our business activities are subject to various restrictions under U.S. export and similar laws and regulations, including the U.S. Department of Commerces Export Administration Regulations and various economic and trade sanctions regulations administered by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Controls. The U.S. export control laws and U.S. economic sanctions laws include restrictions or prohibitions on the sale of certain services to U.S. embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons, and entities. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain technology and have enacted or could enact laws that could limit our ability to provide learners access to our platform or could limit our learners ability to access or use our services in those countries. Although we take precautions to prevent our platform from being provided in violation of such laws, our platform could be provided inadvertently in violation of such laws, despite the precautions we take. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we and certain of our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges and fines. We may also be adversely affected through penalties, reputational harm, loss of access to certain markets, or otherwise. In addition, various countries regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our platform or could limit our learners ability to access our platform in those countries. Changes in our platform, or future changes in export and import regulations, may prevent our international learners from utilizing our platform or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our platform to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions, or related legislation or changes in the countries, governments, persons, or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell subscriptions to our platform to, existing or potential learners internationally. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export or sell our platform would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial results. We are also subject to various domestic and international anti-corruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as other similar anti-bribery and anti-kickback laws and regulations. These laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their employees and intermediaries from authorizing, offering, providing, and accepting improper payments or benefits for improper purposes. These laws also require that we keep accurate books and records and maintain compliance procedures designed to prevent any such actions. Although we take precautions to prevent violations of these laws, our exposure for violating these laws increases as our international presence expands and as we increase sales and operations in foreign jurisdictions. We may become involved in claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we may become involved in litigation matters, such as matters incidental to the ordinary course of our business, including intellectual property, commercial, employment, class action, whistleblower, accessibility, and other litigation and claims, and governmental and other regulatory investigations and proceedings. Such matters can be time-consuming, divert managements attention and resources, cause us to incur significant expenses or liability, or require us to change our business practices. In addition, the expense of litigation and the timing of these expenses from period to period are difficult to estimate, subject to change, and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because of the potential risks, expenses, and uncertainties of litigation, we may, from time to time, settle disputes, even where we have meritorious claims or defenses, by agreeing to settlement agreements. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Privacy, Cybersecurity, and Infrastructure If sensitive information about our partners, their employees, or our learners is disclosed, or if we or our third-party providers are subject to cyber-attacks, use of our platform could be curtailed, we may be exposed to liability and our reputation would suffer. Although we do not directly collect, transmit, and store financial information such as credit cards and other payment information, we utilize third-party payment processors who provide these services on our behalf. We also collect and store certain personally identifiable information provided by our partners and learners, such as names and email addresses. The collection, transmission and storage of such information is subject to stringent legal and regulatory obligations. Some of our third-party service providers, such as identity verification and payment processing providers, also regularly have access to personal data. In an effort to protect sensitive information, we rely on a variety of security measures, including encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties. However, advances in computer capabilities, increasingly sophisticated tools and methods used by hackers and cyber terrorists, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other developments may result in our failure or inability to adequately protect sensitive information. 50 Table of Contents Our platform is vulnerable to power outages, telecommunications failures, and catastrophic events, as well as computer viruses, worms, malicious code, break-ins, phishing attacks, denial-of-service attacks, and other cyber-attacks. Any of these incidents could lead to interruptions or shutdowns of our platform, loss of data, or unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable or other sensitive information. Cyber-attacks could also result in the theft of our intellectual property. If we gain greater visibility, we may face a higher risk of being targeted by cyber-attacks. Advances in computer capabilities, new technological discoveries, or other developments may result in cyber-attacks becoming more sophisticated and more difficult to detect. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy or data protection obligations to learners or other third parties, or our privacy or data protection legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of sensitive information, which may include personally identifiable information or other data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause learners to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Further, if we or our third-party service providers experience security breaches that result in platform performance or availability problems or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information, our reputation and ability to maintain existing, or attract new, partners and learners could be materially adversely affected, and our existing partners could scale back their programs or elect to not renew their agreements, prospective learners could decline to enroll or stay enrolled in our partners programs, and we could be subject to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines, or other action or liability. Further, any reputational damage resulting from breach of our security measures could create distrust of our company by prospective partners or learners. We and our third-party service providers may not have the resources or technical sophistication to anticipate or prevent all such cyber-attacks. Moreover, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our third-party service providers. Security breaches can also occur as a result of non-technical issues, including intentional or inadvertent breaches by our employees or employees of our third-party service providers. We expect to incur ongoing costs associated with the detection and prevention of security breaches and other security-related incidents. We may incur additional costs in the event of a security breach or other security-related incident. Any actual or perceived compromise of our systems or data security measures or those of third parties with whom we do business, or any failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of personal or other confidential information and delays in detecting or providing notice of any such compromise or loss could disrupt our operations, harm the perception of our security measures, damage our reputation, cause some learners or partners to decrease or stop their use of our platform or relationships with us, and could subject us to litigation, government action, increased transaction fees, regulatory fines or penalties, or other additional costs and liabilities that could harm our business, financial condition, and operating results. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will cover or be adequate for data handling or data security liabilities, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation. If the personally identifiable information we collect from our partners, customers, and learners is unlawfully acquired, accessed, or obtained, we could be required to pay substantial fines and bear the cost of investigating the data breach and providing notice to individuals whose personally identifiable information was unlawfully accessed. In providing services to our partners and customers, we may directly or indirectly have access to personally identifiable information from learners and prospective learners, such as names and email addresses. In the event that the personally identifiable information is unlawfully accessed or acquired, the majority of states and many international jurisdictions have laws that require institutions to investigate and promptly disclose the data breach to learners, usually in writing. Under the terms of our agreements with partners and customers, we may be responsible for the costs of investigating and disclosing data breaches to learners and, in many cases, to partners and customers as well. In addition to costs associated with investigating and fully disclosing a data breach in such instances, we could be subject to substantial monetary fines or private claims by affected parties and our reputation would likely be harmed. Disruption to or failures of our platform could result in our partners and learners becoming unsatisfied with our platform and could harm our reputation. 51 Table of Contents The performance and reliability of our platform and the underlying technology are critical to our operations, reputation, and ability to attract and retain partners and learners. Our partners rely on our platform to offer their courses and programs online, and learners must access our platform on a frequent and reliable basis. Our platform is complex and relies on infrastructure provided by third parties, and may contain defects, errors, or vulnerabilities, or may not perform as contemplated. These errors, defects, disruptions, breaches, or other performance problems with our platform could damage our or our partners reputations, decrease partner and learner satisfaction and retention, negatively impact our ability to attract new learners and partners, and could result in large indemnity payments to learners and partners for losses suffered or incurred in connection with any such defects or errors on our platform, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our platform. In addition, sustained or recurring disruptions in our platform or its underlying technology could adversely affect our and our partners compliance with applicable regulations and accrediting body standards. Further, if we fail to accurately predict the rate or timing of the growth of our platform, we may be required to incur significant additional costs to maintain reliability. We also depend on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, including maintenance of reliable Internet networks with the necessary speed, data capacity and security. If we experience failures in our technology infrastructure or do not expand our technology infrastructure successfully, then our ability to attract and retain partners and learners, our growth prospects, and our business would suffer. We have experienced, and expect that in the future we will experience, interruptions, delays, and outages in service and availability from time to time due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, website hosting disruptions, and capacity constraints, which could affect the availability of services on our platform and prevent or inhibit the ability of learners to access or complete courses and programs on our platform. In particular, our technology infrastructure is currently hosted by third-party data center facilities operated by Amazon Web Services (AWS). Any disruption in its services, or any failure of AWS or any future third-party provider to handle the demands of our platform, could significantly harm our business and damage our reputation. We do not have control over the operations of the facilities of the third-party providers that we use, and these facilities may be vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, cybersecurity attacks, terrorist attacks, power outages, and similar events or acts of misconduct. If we do not maintain the compatibility of our learning management platform with third-party applications that our customers use, our revenue will decline. A number of our customers integrate our learning management platform with certain learning management systems or learning experience platforms using application programming interfaces (APIs) for user management, usage reporting, and content listings and we expect this number of customers to grow. The functionality and popularity of our platform depends, in part, on our ability to integrate our platform with third-party applications and software. Third-party providers of applications may change the features of their applications and software, restrict our access to their applications and software or alter the terms governing use of their applications and access to those applications and software in an adverse manner. Such changes could functionally limit or terminate our ability to use these third-party applications and software in conjunction with our platform, which could negatively impact our offerings and harm our business. If we fail to integrate our platform with new third-party applications and software that our learners and partners can utilize, we may not be able to offer the functionality that our learners and partners need, which would negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and adversely impact our business. Our payments system depends on third-party providers and is subject to evolving laws and regulations. We rely on third-party payment processors to process payments made by learners on our platform. We have engaged third-party service providers to perform underlying card processing, currency exchange, identity verification, and fraud analysis services. If these service providers do not perform adequately or if they terminate their relationships with us or refuse to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, we will need to find an alternate payment processor and may not be able to secure similar terms or replace such payment processors in an acceptable timeframe. Further, the software and services provided by our third-party payment processors may not meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, be compromised or experience outages. Any of these risks could cause us to lose our ability to accept online payments, make payments to our partners, or conduct other payment transactions, any of which could make our platform less convenient and attractive and harm our ability to attract and retain partners and learners. In addition, if these providers increase the fees they charge us, our operating expenses could increase. The laws and regulations related to payments are complex and vary across different jurisdictions in the United States and globally. As a result, we are required to spend significant time and effort to comply with those laws and regulations. Any failure or claim of our failure to comply, or any failure by our third-party service providers to comply, could cost us substantial resources, could result in liabilities, or could force us to stop offering certain third-party payment services. In addition, as we expand our international operations, we will need to accommodate international payment method alternatives. As we expand the availability of new payment methods in the future, including internationally, we may become subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements. 52 Table of Contents Further, through our agreement with our third-party credit card processors, we are indirectly subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. We are also subject to rules governing electronic funds transfers. Any change in these rules and requirements could make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, we may be subject to additional fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our learners, process electronic funds transfers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our business depends to a significant degree on continued access to the Internet and mobile networks. Our partners and learners rely on access to the Internet and mobile networks to access our platform. Internet service providers may choose to disrupt or degrade our access to our platform or increase the cost of such access. Internet service providers or mobile network operators could also attempt to charge us for providing access to our platform. Although the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) recently approved new rules that would prohibit Internet service providers from charging content providers higher rates in order to deliver their content over certain fast traffic lanes, these rules will not go into effect until later this year and could be subject to legal challenge or statutory preemption, which could delay or prevent implementation. If the FCCs rules are not implemented, our business could be adversely impacted. Outside of the United States, government regulation of the Internet, including the idea of network neutrality, may be developing or non-existent. As a result, we could face discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth prospects, increase our costs, and harm our business. If the mobile solutions available to our learners and partners are not effective, the use of our platform could decline. Learners have been increasingly accessing our platform on mobile devices through our app in recent years. The smaller screen size and reduced functionality associated with some mobile devices may make the use of our platform more difficult or our partners may believe that online learning through such mobile devices is not effective. Learners accessing our network primarily on mobile devices may not enroll in the courses or the certification, degree, or other credentialing programs offered on our platform as often as those accessing our platform through personal computers, which could result in less revenue for us. If we are not able to provide our partners with the functionality to deliver a rewarding experience on mobile devices, their ability to attract learners to their programs may be harmed and, consequently, our business may suffer. As new mobile devices and mobile features are released, we may encounter problems in developing or supporting apps for them. In addition, supporting new devices and mobile device operating systems may require substantial time and resources. The success of our mobile apps could also be harmed by factors outside our control, such as: actions taken by mobile app distributors; unfavorable treatment received by our mobile apps, especially as compared to competing apps, such as the placement of our mobile apps in a mobile app download store; increased costs in the distribution and use our mobile app; or changes in mobile operating systems, such as iOS and Android, that degrade the functionality of our mobile website or mobile apps or that give preferential treatment to competitive offerings. If our partners or customers, including learners, encounter difficulty accessing or using, or if they choose not to use, our mobile platform, our growth prospects and our business may be adversely affected. Our use and processing of personal information and other data is subject to laws and obligations relating to privacy and data protection, and our failure to comply with such laws and obligations could harm our business. In the ordinary course of business, and in particular in connection with merchandising our service to our learners, we collect, process, store and use personal information and data supplied by learners. Numerous federal, state, and foreign laws, rules and regulations govern privacy, data protection, and the collection, use and protection of personal information and other types of data we collect, use, disclose, and otherwise process. These laws, rules, and regulations are constantly evolving, and we expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations, and industry standards concerning privacy, data protection and information security in the United States, the EU and other jurisdictions. 53 Table of Contents For example, California has adopted the California Consumer Privacy Act (the CCPA), which provides new data privacy rights for California consumers and new operational requirements for covered companies. The CCPA provides that covered companies must provide new disclosures to California consumers and afford such consumers new data privacy rights that include the right to request a copy from a covered company of the personal information collected about them, the right to request deletion of such personal information, and the right to request to opt-out of certain sales of such personal information. The CCPA became operative in January 2020, and its implementing regulations took effect in August 2020. The California Attorney General can enforce the CCPA, including seeking an injunction and civil penalties for violations. The CCPA provides a private right of action for certain data breaches that is expected to increase data breach litigation. The CCPA may require us to modify our data practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. California voters also passed a new privacy law, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA), in the November 2020 election. The CPRA significantly modifies the CCPA, including by imposing additional obligations on covered companies and expanding consumers rights with respect to certain sensitive personal information, potentially resulting in further uncertainty and requiring us to incur additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. The CPRA also creates a new state agency that will be vested with authority to implement and enforce the CCPA and the CPRA. In addition, all 50 states have laws including obligations to provide notification of security breaches of computer databases that contain personal information to affected individuals, state officers and others. Aspects of the CCPA, the CPRA, and other laws and regulations relating to data protection, privacy, and information security, as well as their enforcement, remain unclear, and we may be required to modify our practices in an effort to comply with them. Similarly, the European Commission adopted a General Data Protection Regulation (the GDPR) that became fully effective on May 25, 2018, imposing stringent EU data protection requirements. The GDPR is wide-ranging in scope and imposes numerous additional requirements on companies that process personal data, including imposing special requirements in respect of the processing of personal data, requiring that consent of individuals to whom the personal data relates is obtained in certain circumstances, requiring additional disclosures to individuals regarding data processing activities, requiring that safeguards are implemented to protect the security and confidentiality of personal data, creating mandatory data breach notification requirements in certain circumstances, and requiring that certain measures (including contractual requirements) are put in place when engaging third-party processors. The GDPR also provides individuals with various rights in respect of their personal data, including rights of access, erasure, portability, rectification, restriction, and objection. Further, the United Kingdoms vote in favor of exiting the European Union, often referred to as Brexit, and ongoing developments in the United Kingdom, have created uncertainty with regard to data protection regulation in the United Kingdom. As of January 1, 2021, and the expiry of transitional arrangements agreed to between the United Kingdom and the European Union, data processing in the United Kingdom is governed by a United Kingdom version of the GDPR (combining the GDPR and the Data Protection Act 2018), exposing us to two parallel regimes, each of which potentially authorizes similar fines and other potentially divergent enforcement actions for certain violations. Pursuant to the Trade and Cooperation Agreement, which went into effect on January 1, 2021, the United Kingdom and the European Union agreed to a specified period during which the United Kingdom will be treated like a European Union member state in relation to transfers of personal data to the United Kingdom for four months from January 1, 2021. This period may be extended by two further months. Unless the European Commission makes an adequacy finding in respect of the United Kingdom before the expiration of such specified period, the United Kingdom will become an inadequate third country under the GDPR and transfers of data from the European Economic Area to the United Kingdom will require a transfer mechanism, such as the standard contractual clauses. Furthermore, following the expiration of the specified period, there will be increasing scope for divergence in application, interpretation, and enforcement of the data protection law as between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Other jurisdictions outside the European Union are similarly introducing or enhancing privacy and data security laws, rules, and regulations, which could increase our compliance costs and the risks associated with noncompliance. We cannot yet fully determine the impact these or future laws, rules, and regulations may have on our business or operations. These laws, rules and regulations may be inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another, subject to differing interpretations and may be interpreted to conflict with our practices. The CCPA and CPRA could mark the beginning of a trend toward more stringent privacy legislation in the United States. The CCPA has prompted a number of proposals for federal and state privacy legislation that, if passed, could increase our potential liability, add layers of complexity to compliance in the U.S. market, increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our business. Additionally, we may be bound by contractual requirements applicable to our collection, use, processing and disclosure of various types of data, including personal information, and may be bound by, or voluntarily comply with, self-regulatory or other industry standards relating to these matters. 54 Table of Contents Any failure or perceived failure by us or any third parties with which we do business to comply with these laws, rules and regulations, or with other obligations to which we or such third parties are or may become subject, may result in actions against us by governmental entities or private claims and litigation. Any such action would be expensive to defend, may require the expenditure of substantial legal and other costs and substantial time and resources, may result in fines, penalties or other liabilities, and likely would damage our reputation and adversely affect our business and operating results. In many jurisdictions, enforcement actions and consequences for non-compliance with protection, privacy, and information security laws and regulations are rising. In the United States, possible consequences for non-compliance include enforcement actions in response to rules and regulations promulgated under the authority of federal agencies and state attorneys general and legislatures and consumer protection agencies. In the EU, data protection authorities may impose large penalties for violations of the data protection laws, including potential fines of up to 20 million or 4% of annual global revenue, whichever is greater. The authorities have shown a willingness to impose significant fines and issue orders preventing the processing of personal data on non-compliant businesses. Data participants also have a private right of action, as do consumer associations, to lodge complaints with supervisory authorities, seek judicial remedies, and obtain compensation for damages resulting from violations of applicable data protection laws. In addition, privacy advocates and industry groups have regularly proposed, and may propose in the future, self-regulatory standards that may legally or contractually apply to us. If we fail to follow these security standards, even if no customer information is compromised, we may incur significant fines or experience a significant increase in costs. Further, in view of new or modified federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations, and other legal obligations, or any changes in their interpretation, we may find it necessary or desirable to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or to expend significant resources to modify our services, and otherwise adapt to these changes. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new features could be limited. Privacy, data protection, and information security concerns, whether valid or invalid, may inhibit the use and growth of our platform, particularly in certain foreign countries. Use of social media, emails, push notifications, and text messages in ways that do not comply with applicable laws and regulations, lead to the loss or infringement of intellectual property, or result in unintended disclosure may harm our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. We use social media, emails, push notifications and text messages as part of our omni-channel approach to marketing. As laws and regulations evolve to govern the use of these channels, the failure by us, our employees, or third parties acting at our direction to comply with applicable laws and regulations in the use of these channels could adversely affect our reputation or subject us to fines or other penalties. In addition, our employees or third parties acting at our direction may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that could lead to the loss or infringement of intellectual property, as well as the public disclosure of proprietary, confidential, or sensitive personal information of our business, employees, learners, partners or others. Information concerning us or our partners and learners, whether accurate or not, may be posted on social media platforms at any time and may have an adverse impact on our brand, reputation, or business. The harm may be immediate without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction and could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects. Risks Related to Intellectual Property Any failure to obtain, maintain, protect or enforce our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our ability to protect our proprietary technology and our brand and could materially harm our business. 55 Table of Contents We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, contractual protections, and other practices to protect our brand, proprietary information, technologies and processes. We primarily rely on copyright and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies and processes, including the algorithms we use throughout our business. Others may independently develop the same or similar technologies and processes, or may improperly acquire and use information about our technologies and processes, which may allow them to provide a service similar to ours, which could harm our competitive position. Our principal trademark assets include the registered trademark Coursera and our logos and taglines. We also hold the rights to the Coursera.org Internet domain name and various related domain names, which are subject to Internet regulatory bodies and trademark and other related laws of each applicable jurisdiction. If we are unable to protect our trademarks or domain names, our brand recognition and reputation would suffer, we would incur significant expense establishing new brands and our operating results would be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2020, we had 14 issued patents relating to technology features of our platform, including identity verification, content delivery and navigation, and automation, which patents expire between 2034 and 2038, and two U.S. pending patent applications also relating to certain technology features of our platform. We cannot predict whether any pending patent application will result in an issued patent that will effectively protect our intellectual property. Even if a patent issues, the patent may be circumvented or its validity may be challenged in proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. In addition, we cannot assure you that every significant feature of technology and services will be protected by any patent or patent application. Further, to the extent we pursue patent protection for our innovations, patents we may apply for may not issue, and patents that do issue or that we acquire may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties. There can be no assurance that any patents we obtain will adequately protect our inventions or survive a legal challenge, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. Third parties may challenge any patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property and proprietary rights owned or held by us or may knowingly or unknowingly infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our patents, copyrights, trademarks, and other proprietary rights. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights, and the efforts we take to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient. Even if we do detect violations, we may need to engage in litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive and could divert our managements attention. In addition, our efforts may be met with defenses and counterclaims challenging the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights or may result in a court determining that our intellectual property rights are unenforceable. If we are unable to cost-effectively protect our intellectual property rights, then our business could be harmed. An adverse decision in any of these legal actions could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property or proprietary rights, limit the value of our intellectual property or proprietary rights or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the protection of our intellectual property and proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to customers and potential customers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract customers may be adversely affected. We may be subject to intellectual property claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the technology industry are frequently subject to litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We periodically receive notices that claim we have infringed, misappropriated, or misused other parties intellectual property rights. To the extent we gain greater public recognition, we may face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property claims. Any intellectual property claims against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming and expensive to settle or litigate and could divert the attention of our management. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is inherently uncertain due to the complex issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves in such matters. In addition, some of our competitors have extensive portfolios of issued patents. Many potential litigants, including some of our competitors and patent holding companies, have the ability to dedicate substantial resources to enforcing their intellectual property rights. Any claims successfully brought against us could subject us to significant liability for damages and we may be required to stop using technology or other intellectual property alleged to be in violation of a third partys rights. We also might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties or submit to unreasonable terms, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant time and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our service and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our business. 56 Table of Contents Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and proprietary information. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our intellectual property and proprietary rights. In order to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to offer our solutions and subject us to possible litigation. A substantial portion of our platform and our solutions incorporates so-called open source software, and we may incorporate additional open source software in the future. Open source software is generally freely accessible, usable and modifiable. Certain open source licenses may, in certain circumstances, require us: (i) to offer our solutions that incorporate the open source software for no cost; (ii) to make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software; and (iii) to license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes open source software we use were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations, could be required to disclose our proprietary code and could be subject to significant damages, including being enjoined from the offering of our solutions that contained the open source software and being required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt our ability to offer the affected solutions. We could also be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, and have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Individuals that appear in content hosted on our platform may claim violation of their rights. Faculty and learners that appear in video segments hosted on our platform may claim that proper assignments, licenses, consents, and releases were not obtained for use of their likenesses, images or other contributed content. Our partners are contractually required to ensure that proper assignments, licenses, consents, and releases are obtained for their course material, but we do not know with certainty that they have obtained all necessary rights. Moreover, the laws governing rights of publicity and privacy, and the laws governing faculty ownership of course content, are imprecise and adjudicated on a case-by-case basis, such that the enforcement of agreements to transfer the necessary rights is unclear. As a result, we could incur liability to third parties for the unauthorized duplication, display, distribution, or other use of this material. Any such claims could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel, regardless of whether the claims have merit. Our various liability insurance coverages may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter or cease our use of such material, which may include changing or removing content from courses, or to pay monetary damages. Moreover, claims by faculty and learners could damage our reputation, regardless of whether such claims have merit. Risks Relating to Our Existence as a Public Benefit Corporation Although we operate as a Delaware public benefit corporation, we cannot provide any assurance that we will achieve our public benefit purpose. As a Delaware public benefit corporation (PBC), we are required to produce a public benefit and to operate in a responsible and sustainable manner, balancing our stockholders pecuniary interests, the best interests of those materially affected by our conduct, and the public benefit identified by our certificate of incorporation. There is no assurance that we will achieve our public benefit purpose or that the expected positive impact from being a PBC will be realized, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, which in turn may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a PBC, we are required to publicly disclose at least biennially on our overall public benefit performance and on our assessment of our success in achieving our specific public benefit purpose. If we are not timely or are unable to provide this report, or if the report is not viewed favorably by parties doing business with us or by regulators or others reviewing our credentials, our reputation and status as a PBC may be harmed. If our publicly reported B Corp score declines, our reputation could be harmed and our business could suffer. 57 Table of Contents We have been certified as a B Corp through B Lab. Our business model and brand could be harmed if we are unable to maintain certification as a B Corp. B Corp status is a certification that requires us to consider the impact of our decisions on our employees, partners, learners, community, and the environment. We believe that our B Corp status enables us to strengthen our credibility and trust among our customers and partners. Whether due to our choice or our failure to meet B Labs certification requirements, any change in our status could create a perception that we are more focused on financial performance and no longer as committed to the values shared by B Corps. Likewise, our reputation could be harmed if our publicly reported B Corp score declines and there is a perception that we are no longer committed to the B Corp standards. Similarly, our reputation could be harmed if we take actions that are perceived to be misaligned with B Corp values. As a PBC, our focus on a specific public benefit purpose and producing a positive effect for society may negatively impact our financial performance. Unlike traditional corporations, which have a fiduciary duty to focus exclusively on maximizing stockholder value, our directors have a fiduciary duty to consider not only the stockholders interests, but also the companys specific public benefit and the interests of other stakeholders affected by our actions. Therefore, we may take actions that we believe will be in the best interests of those stakeholders materially affected by our specific benefit purpose, even if those actions do not maximize our financial results. While we intend for this public benefit designation and obligation to provide an overall net benefit to us and our partners and learners, it could instead cause us to make decisions and take actions without seeking to maximize the income generated from our business, and hence available for distribution to our stockholders. Our pursuit of longer-term or non-pecuniary benefits may not materialize within the timeframe we expect or at all and may have an immediate negative effect on any amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. Accordingly, being a PBC and complying with our related obligations could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Additionally, as a PBC, we may be less attractive as a takeover target than a traditional company and, therefore, your ability to realize your investment through an acquisition may be limited. PBCs may also not be attractive targets for activists or hedge fund investors because new directors would still have to consider and give appropriate weight to the public benefit along with stockholder value, and stockholders can enforce this through derivative suits. Further, by requiring the boards of directors of PBCs consider additional constituencies other than maximizing stockholder value, Delaware public benefit corporation law could potentially make it easier for a board to reject a hostile bid, even where the takeover would provide the greatest short-term financial yield to investors. Our directors have a fiduciary duty to consider not only our shareholders interests, but also our specific public benefit and the interests of other stakeholders affected by our actions. If a conflict between such interests arises, there is no guarantee such a conflict would be resolved in favor of our shareholders. While directors of traditional corporations are required to make decisions they believe to be in the best interests of their shareholders, directors of a PBC have a fiduciary duty to consider not only the shareholders interests, but also the companys specific public benefit and the interests of other stakeholders affected by the companys actions. Under Delaware law, directors are shielded from liability for breach of these obligations if they make informed and disinterested decisions that serve a rational purpose. Thus, unlike traditional corporations which must focus exclusively on shareholder value, our directors are not merely permitted, but obligated, to consider our specific public benefit and the interests of other stakeholders. In the event of a conflict between the interests of our shareholders and the interests of our specific public benefit or our other stakeholders, our directors must only make informed and disinterested decisions that serve a rational purpose; thus, there is no guarantee such a conflict would be resolved in favor of our shareholders, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition, which in turn could cause our stock price to decline. Our focus on the long-term best interests of our company as a PBC and our consideration of all of our stakeholders, including our shareholders, learners, partners, employees, the communities in which we operate, and other stakeholders that we may identify from time to time, may conflict with short- or medium-term financial interests and business performance, which may negatively impact the value of our common stock. 58 Table of Contents We believe that focusing on the long-term best interests of our company as a public benefit corporation and our consideration of all of our stakeholders, including our shareholders, learners, partners, employees, the communities in which we operate, and other stakeholders we may identify from time to time, is essential to the long-term success of our company and to long-term shareholder value. Therefore, we have, and may in the future, make decisions that we believe are in the long-term best interests of our company and our shareholders, even if such decisions may negatively impact the short- or medium-term performance of our business, results of operations, and financial condition or the short- or medium-term performance of our common stock. Our commitment to pursuing long-term value for the company and its shareholders, potentially at the expense of short- or medium-term performance, may materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock, including by making owning our common stock less appealing to investors who are focused on returns over a shorter time horizon. Our decisions and actions in pursuit of long-term success and long-term shareholder value, which may include changes to our platform to enhance the experience of our learners, partners, and the communities in which we operate, including by improving the trust and safety of our platform, changes in the manner in which we deliver community support, investing in our relationships with our learners, partners, and employees, investing in and introducing new offerings and services, investing in social impact initiatives consistent with our public benefit objectives, or changes in our approach to working with local or national jurisdictions on laws and regulations governing our business, may not result in the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the trading price of our common stock, could be materially adversely affected. As a Delaware PBC, we may be subject to increased derivative litigation concerning our duty to balance stockholder and public benefit interest, the occurrence of which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Stockholders of a Delaware PBC (if they, individually or collectively, own the lesser of (i) two percent of the companys outstanding shares, or (ii) shares with a market value of $2 million or more on the date the lawsuit is instituted) are entitled to file a derivative lawsuit claiming the directors failed to balance stockholder and public benefit interests. Such derivative suits would be subject to the exclusive forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, requiring them to be heard in the Delaware Chancery Court (or, if that court lacks subject matter jurisdiction, another federal or state court situated in the State of Delaware). This potential liability does not exist for traditional corporations. Therefore, we may be subject to the possibility of increased derivative litigation, which would require the attention of our management, and, as a result, may adversely impact our managements ability to effectively execute our strategy. Additionally, any such derivative litigation may be costly, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot maintain our company culture and public benefit commitment, our business could be harmed. We believe that our company culture has been critical to our success. In addition, we believe that our status as a Delaware PBC and our commitment to providing global access to flexible and affordable world-class learning that supports personal development, career advancement, and economic opportunity distinguish us from our competitors and promote a relationship among our partners, learners, and employees founded on trust. However, we face a number of challenges that may affect our ability to sustain our corporate culture, including: a need to identify, attract, reward and retain people in leadership positions in our organization who share and further our culture, values, mission, and public benefit objectives; the increasing size and geographic diversity of our workforce, and our ability to promote a uniform and consistent culture across all our offices and employees, including in a remote work environment; the market perception about our public benefit objectives; competitive pressures that may divert us from our mission, vision, and values; the continued challenges of a rapidly evolving industry; and the increasing need to develop expertise in new areas of business that affect us. If we are unable to maintain our company culture and demonstrate our commitment to our mission as a PBC, it could harm our business and reputation. 59 Table of Contents Risks Related to Tax, Accounting, and Operations Our business may be subject to sales and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes, such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), provincial taxes, goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax to businesses like ours is a complex and evolving issue. For example, as of January 1, 2015, the European Union imposed an obligation on platforms to collect and remit VAT on sales of automatically downloaded digital items, and we are in the process of implementing such collection and remittance procedures. Significant judgment is required to evaluate applicable tax obligations and as a result amounts recorded are estimates and could change. In many cases, the ultimate tax determination is uncertain because it is not clear how existing statutes apply to our business. One or more states, the federal government or other countries may seek to impose additional reporting, record-keeping, or indirect tax collection obligations on businesses like ours that facilitate online commerce. For example, the U.S. Congress is currently considering the Marketplace Fairness Act, which would grant states the authority to require online merchants to collect sales tax on online sales at the time a transaction is completed. New taxes could also require us to incur substantial costs to capture data and collect and remit taxes. If such obligations were imposed, the additional costs associated with tax collection, remittance, and audit requirements could make accessing offerings through our platform less attractive and more costly, which could harm our business. Amendments to existing tax laws, rules or regulations or enactment of new unfavorable tax laws, rules or regulations could have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. Many of the underlying laws, rules and regulations imposing taxes and other obligations were established before the growth of the Internet and ecommerce. U.S. federal, state and local taxing authorities are currently reviewing the appropriate treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce and considering changes to existing tax or other laws that could levy sales, income, consumption, use, or other taxes relating to our activities, and/or impose obligations on us to collect such taxes. If such tax or other laws, rules or regulations are amended, or if new unfavorable laws, rules or regulations are enacted, the results could increase our tax payments or other obligations, prospectively or retrospectively, subject us to interest and penalties, decrease the demand for our services if we pass on such costs to our partners or learners, result in increased costs to update or expand our technical or administrative infrastructure, or effectively limit the scope of our business activities if we decided not to conduct business in particular jurisdictions. As a result, these changes may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards and certain other tax attributes may be limited. We have incurred substantial net operating losses (NOLs) during our history. Unused NOLs may carry forward to offset future taxable income if we achieve profitability in the future, unless such NOLs expire under applicable tax laws. However, under the rules of Sections 382 and 383 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, if a corporation undergoes an ownership change, generally defined as a greater than 50% change (by value) in its equity ownership over a three-year period, the corporations ability to use its NOLs and other pre-change tax attributes to offset its post-change taxable income or taxes may be limited. The applicable rules generally operate by focusing on changes in ownership among stockholders considered by the rules as owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the stock of a company, as well as changes in ownership arising from new issuances of stock by the company. As a result of these rules, in the event that we experience one or more ownership changes as a result of future transactions in our stock, then we may be limited in our ability to use our NOL carryforwards to offset our future taxable income, if any. In addition, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act imposes certain limitations on the deduction of NOLs generated in tax years that began on or after January 1, 2018, including a limitation on use of NOLs to offset only 80% of taxable income and the disallowance of NOL carrybacks. Although NOLs generated in tax years before 2018 may still be used to offset future income without limitation, the recent legislation may limit our ability to use our NOLs to offset any future taxable income. Our reported results of operations may be adversely affected by changes in generally accepted accounting principles. Generally accepted accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the SEC and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported results of operations and could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. It is difficult to predict the impact of future changes to accounting principles or our accounting policies, any of which could negatively affect our reported results of operations. 60 Table of Contents If our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure