Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, before investing in our ordinary shares. If any of the following risks are realized, in whole or in part, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the price of our ordinary shares could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair the operation of our business. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on a limited number of customers for a substantial portion of our revenue. The loss of, or a significant reduction in sales to, one or more of our major customers could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. In fiscal 2025, we had one customer that accounted for 10% or more of our total revenue (such one customer accounting for 67% of total fiscal 2025 revenue). In addition, in fiscal 2025, sales to our top 10 customers accounted for approximately 90% of our total revenue. We believe our operating results for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on sales to a relatively small number of customers. In the future, these customers may decide not to purchase our products or solutions at all, may purchase fewer products or solutions than they did in the past or may alter their purchasing patterns. For example, in February 2023, we announced that our largest customer at the time reduced its demand forecast for certain of our products for reasons we understand were unrelated to our performance, which negatively impacted our fiscal 2023 fourth quarter revenue and our fiscal 2024 revenue expectations. Further, the amount of revenue attributable to any single customer or our general customer concentration, may fluctuate in any given period. In addition, our relationships with some customers may deter other potential customers who compete with these customers from buying our products. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we may offer these customers favorable terms, including the right to terminate or delay orders on little notice, exclusivity or most favored nation pricing on our products. Such agreements could impair our operating results. In the event of pricing reductions or financial incentives for key customers, our average selling prices and gross margins would decline. The loss of a key customer, any reduction in sales to any key customer or our inability to attract new significant customers could negatively impact our revenue and materially and adversely affect our business or results of operations. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, and if our customers cancel or change their purchase orders, our revenue and operating results could suffer. Substantially all of our product sales to date have been made on a purchase order basis. We generally do not obtain long-term commitments with our customers or commitments for minimum purchases from our customers. Our arrangements with our customers permit our customers to cancel, change or delay their product purchase orders upon specified notice and subject to negotiated limitations. In some cases, our customers may cancel purchase orders on relatively short notice to us and without penalty to them. In addition, customers may delay delivery of orders to a subsequent fiscal quarter. Our revenue and operating results have, and could in the future, fluctuate materially and have, and could in the future, be materially and disproportionately impacted by the purchasing decisions of our customers, especially our larger customers. Our customers may decide to purchase fewer units than they have in the past, alter their purchasing patterns at any time with limited notice, change the terms on which they are prepared to do business with us or decide not to continue to purchase our products at all, any of which could cause our revenue to decline materially and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in February 2023, we announced that that our largest customer reduced its demand forecast for certain of our products for reasons we understand are unrelated to our performance, which negatively impacted our fiscal 2023 fourth quarter revenue and our fiscal 2024 revenue expectations. Cancellations of, reductions in or rescheduling of customer orders could also result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce our inventory and operating expenses, as a substantial portion of our expenses are fixed at least in the short term. In addition, changes in forecasts or the timing of orders expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. Any of the foregoing events could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face macroeconomic risks, including, but not limited to, recessions, inflation, stagflation and other economic conditions. Customer demand for our products may be impacted by weak economic conditions, inflation, stagflation, recessionary or lower-growth environments, rising interest rates, equity market volatility, geopolitical tensions, war, trade restrictions, tariffs and sanctions or other negative economic factors in the U.S. or other nations. For example, under these conditions or as a result of expectation of such conditions, our customers may cancel orders, delay purchasing decisions or reduce their use of our services. In addition, these economic conditions could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges from our manufacturing partners if we need to slow production to reduce inventory levels. Further, in the event of a recession or threat of a recession our manufacturing partners, suppliers, distributors or other third-party partners may suffer their own financial and economic challenges and as a result they may demand pricing accommodations, delay payment or become insolvent, which could harm our ability to meet our customer demands or collect receivables or otherwise harm our business. Similarly, disruptions in financial and/or credit markets may impact our ability to manage normal commercial relationships with our manufacturing partners, customers, suppliers and creditors and might cause us to not be able to continue to access preferred sources of liquidity when we would like, and our borrowing costs could increase. Thus, if general macroeconomic conditions, conditions in the semiconductor industry, or conditions in our customer end markets deteriorate or experience a sustained period of weakness or slower growth, our business and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Recently, the president of the United States has imposed new tariffs and substantially increased other tariffs on a variety of products and countries that could materially affect macroeconomic conditions. In particular, in April 2025 the United States announced an across-the-board 10% tariff on all countries and individualized higher tariffs on certain countries, including China. If an environment of significantly increased U.S. tariffs and trade restrictions, together with reciprocal or retaliatory tariffs from other countries, continues or further escalates in a trade war, the global economy could be adversely affected, including through higher costs, higher interest rates or lower demand for our products, any of which could materially affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. In addition, we are also subject to risk from inflation and increasing market prices of certain components, supplies and commodity raw materials, which are incorporated into our end products or used by our manufacturing partners or suppliers to manufacture our end products. These components, supplies, and commodities have from time to time become restricted and general market factors and conditions (such as inflation or supply chain constraints) have in the past and may in the future affect the pricing of such components, supplies and commodities. 19 Changes in global trade policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. Recently, the President of the United States has increased tariffs on a variety of products and countries that could materially affect our business. In particular, in April 2025 the United States announced an across-the-board 10% tariff on all countries and individualized higher tariffs on certain countries, including China. A great deal of uncertainty surrounds the state of tariffs and other trade measures worldwide. While the current U.S. administration has been actively focused on trade, the exact implementation, amount, scope and nature of these tariffs remains unclear. It also remains unclear how other countries will respond to the United States trade proposals and actions. As of now, high reciprocal tariffs are in effect between China and the United States and the United States has announced, but temporarily paused the effective date of, tariffs on goods imported from many other countries, including Mexico, Canada, Taiwan and the European Union. Significant trade partners such as Mexico, Canada and the European Union have announced retaliatory tariffs. Further, while the United States has exempted certain technology products such as semiconductors and electronics from the reciprocal tariffs announced on April 2, 2025 such that our products are not subject to the announced tariffs, it has also initiated Section 232 investigations on such products, possibly leading to the imposition of specific tariffs on these products or on products that incorporate them. Although we continue to evaluate the impact of these tariffs on our business, these tariffs may result in significantly higher costs to acquire the materials and components used in our products. These tariffs and other trade restrictions could also limit the availability of components and raw materials. Given this dynamic and rapidly evolving environment, it is not possible to know with any degree of certainty what the negative direct and indirect consequences of tariffs could be on our business and financial results. We have incurred net losses in prior periods and have an accumulated deficit, and we may incur additional net losses in the future. Prior to fiscal 2025, we had a history of net losses. While we generated net income of $52.2 million in fiscal 2025, we incurred net losses of $28.4 million in fiscal 2024 primarily attributable to increased operating expenses, such as investments in research and development, including share-based compensation. As of May 3, 2025, we had an accumulated deficit of $83.2 million. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient revenue to offset the cost of growing our business in the future. Our revenue or revenue growth rate may decline in the future because of a variety of factors, including increased competition, reduced demand for our products and the maturation of our business. You should not consider our historical revenue growth or operating expenses as indicative of our future performance. Additionally, we also expect our costs to increase in future periods. We expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on research and development, expansion into new markets, marketing and general administration (including expenses related to being a public company). These investments may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. If our revenue or revenue growth rate declines or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our financial performance will be adversely affected. We will need to generate and sustain increased revenue levels in future periods in order to maintain or increase our level of profitability. If we cannot successfully grow our revenue at a rate that exceeds the increases in costs associated with our business, we will not be able to achieve or maintain profitability or generate positive cash flow on a sustained basis, and the trading price of our ordinary shares could decline. 20 We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and differences between our estimates of customer demand and product mix and our actual results could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product sales are primarily generated on the basis of purchase orders with our customers rather than long-term purchase commitments. However, we place orders with our suppliers based on forecasts of customer demand and, in some instances, may establish buffer inventories to accommodate anticipated demand, which may not materialize. Due to our lengthy product development cycle, it is critical for us to anticipate changes in demand for our various product features and the applications they serve to allow sufficient time for product development and design. We have limited visibility into future customer demand and the product mix that our customers will require, which could adversely affect our revenue forecasts and operating margins. Moreover, because some of our target markets are relatively new, many of our customers have difficulty accurately forecasting their product requirements and estimating the timing of their new product introductions, which ultimately affects their demand for our products. Our failure to accurately forecast demand can lead to product shortages that can impede production by our customers and harm our customer relationships. Conversely, our failure to forecast declining demand or shifts in product mix can result in excess or obsolete inventory. In addition, the rapid pace of innovation in our industry could also render significant portions of our inventory obsolete. Excess or obsolete inventory levels could result in unexpected expenses or increases in our reserves that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In contrast, if we were to underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we could forego revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, any significant future cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products due to manufacturing defects could materially and adversely impact our profit margins, increase our write-offs due to product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We face intense competition and expect competition to increase in the future. The global semiconductor market in general, and the data infrastructure market in particular, are highly competitive. We expect competition to increase and intensify as more and larger competitor companies enter our markets. Increased competition could result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our future growth will depend in part on our ability to successfully enter and compete in new markets. Currently, our competitors range from large, international companies offering a wide range of semiconductor products to smaller companies specializing in narrow markets. Our principal competitors with respect to our products include Broadcom Ltd. (Broadcom), Marvell Technology, Inc. (Marvell) and Astera Labs, Inc. (Astera), as well as various cable suppliers. We expect competition will increase as our market grows, connectivity technology advances and existing competitors improve or expand their product offerings. In addition, new companies could enter our market, creating additional competition in the future. Our ability to compete successfully depends, in part, on factors that are outside of our control, including industry and general economic trends. Many of our competitors are substantially larger, have greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, customer support, government support and other resources, are more established than we are and have better brand recognition and broader product offerings, and may be able to bundle their products to gain market share. This may enable them to better withstand adverse economic or market conditions, such as those caused by uncertainty as a result of the recent macroeconomic environment, which has been characterized by rising interest rates and inflation, geopolitical instability, public health measures and supply chain uncertainty. These factors cause companies across the semiconductor industry to reduce spending and tighten inventory controls, which 21 could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors, including: our ability to define, design and regularly introduce new products and solutions that anticipate the functionality and integration needs of our customers next-generation products and applications; our ability to build strong and long-lasting relationships with our customers and other industry participants; our ability to capitalize on, and prevent losses due to, vertical integration by significant customers; our products performance, power efficiency and cost-effectiveness relative to those of competing products; our ability to achieve design wins; the effectiveness and success of our customers products utilizing our products or solutions within their competitive end markets; our research and development capabilities to provide innovative products and solutions and maintain our product roadmap; the strength of our sales and marketing efforts and our brand awareness and reputation; our ability to secure capacity with our foundry and assembly partners to manufacture and assemble our products; our ability to deliver products in large volume on a timely basis at competitive prices; our ability to withstand or respond to significant price competition; our ability to grow and maintain international operations in a cost-effective manner; our ability to obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our intellectual property rights, including obtaining intellectual property rights from third parties that may be necessary to meet the evolving demands of the market; our ability to defend against potential patent infringement claims from third parties; our ability to promote and support our customers incorporation of our products or solutions into their products; and our ability to retain high-level talent, including our management team and engineers. Industry consolidation may lead to increased competition. Our competitors may also establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties or may acquire companies that provide similar products to ours. As a result, new competitors or alliances may emerge that could capture significant market share. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several years. We expect this trend to continue as companies attempt to improve the leverage of growing research and development costs, strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry or are unable to continue operations. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. Industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. Any of these factors, alone or in combination with others, could lead to an increase in pricing pressure, more variability in our operating results, a loss of market share and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 We may incur substantial expenses to develop, market and qualify products that may not generate any revenue. Our business can be dependent on us winning competitive bid selection processes, known as design wins. We are focused on securing design wins that enable us to sell our products and solutions. We consider a design win to occur when a customer notifies us that it has selected our products or technology to be incorporated into a product or system under development, often as part of a competitive technology review and bid process. While not legally enforceable contractual obligations, we believe design wins are an important step towards the adoption of our products or technologies by a customer, as competition for design wins is a highly selective process and generally results in the customer devoting substantial resources in partnering with us in development. These selection processes typically are lengthy and can require us to incur significant design and development expenditures and dedicate our limited engineering resources in pursuit of a single customer opportunity. We may not win the competitive selection process and may never generate any revenue despite incurring significant design and development expenditures. Failure to obtain a design win could prevent us from offering an entire generation of a product to a particular customer. This could cause us to lose revenue and require us to write off obsolete inventory, and could weaken our position in future competitive selection processes. Further, because of the significant costs associated with qualifying new suppliers, customers are likely to use the same or an enhanced version of semiconductor products from existing suppliers across a number of similar and successor products for a lengthy period of time. As a result, if we fail to secure an initial design win for any of our products to any particular customer, we may lose the opportunity to make future sales of those products to that customer for a significant period of time or at all and experience an associated decline in net sales relating to those products. Even when we do achieve a design win, we may never generate any revenue despite incurring development expenditures. For example, despite achieving a design win, the customer may determine not to proceed with a contemplated project and cancel the project with little notice to us, resulting in a loss of projected revenue. In addition, our design cycle from initial engagement to volume shipment is typically two to three years, so even after securing a design win, we may experience delays in generating revenue from our products as a result of the lengthy development cycle. Our customers may take several months or more than a year to evaluate our products and solutions. For example, prior to purchasing our products, our customers may require that both our products and our third-party contractors undergo extensive qualification processes, which involve testing of our products in the customers systems, as well as testing for reliability. This qualification process may continue for several months or more. However, qualification of a product by a customer does not assure any sales of the product to that customer. Even after successful qualification and sales of a product to a customer, a subsequent revision in our third-party contractors manufacturing process or our selection of a new supplier may require a new qualification process with our customers, which may result in delays and in our holding excess or obsolete inventory. After our products are qualified, it can take several months or more before the customer commences volume production of components or systems that incorporate our products. Despite these uncertainties, we devote substantial resources, including design, engineering, sales, marketing and management efforts, to qualify our products with customers in anticipation of sales. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in qualifying any of our products with a customer, sales of those products to the customer may be precluded or delayed, which may impede our growth and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The delays inherent in a lengthy sales cycle increases the risk that a customer will decide to cancel, curtail, reduce or delay its product plans or adopt a competing design from one of our competitors, which could cause us to lose anticipated revenue if we continue development but are unable to secure a new design win. Any delay or cancellation of a customers plans could materially and adversely affect our financial results, as we may have incurred significant expense without generating any revenue. Moreover, our customers failure to successfully market and sell their products could reduce demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Because of an extended sales cycle, our revenue in future years is highly dependent on design wins we are awarded in prior years. It is typical that a design win will not result in meaningful revenue until one or more years later, if at all. If we do not continue to achieve design wins in the short term, our revenue in the following years will deteriorate. Further, a significant portion of our revenue in any period may depend on a single product design win with a large customer. As a result, the loss of any key design win or any significant delay in the ramp of volume production of the customers products for which our product is designed could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to maintain sales to our key customers or continue to secure key design wins for a variety of reasons, and our customers can stop incorporating our products into their data infrastructure or product offerings with limited notice to us and suffer little or no penalty. If we fail to anticipate or respond to technological shifts or market demands, or to timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to the same, it could result in decreased revenue and the loss of design wins to our competitors. Due to the interdependence of various components in the systems within which our products and the products of our competitors operate, customers are unlikely to change to another design, once adopted, until the next generation of a technology. As a result, if we fail to introduce new or enhanced products that meet the needs of our customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, and our designs do not gain acceptance, we will lose market share and our competitive position would be harmed. We rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our products, and the failure to successfully manage our relationships with such third-party contractors could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. We operate an outsourced manufacturing business model. As a result, we rely on third-party foundry wafer fabrication and assembly and test capacity. We currently outsource all of our IC manufacturing to TSMC, with the assembly and testing processes outsourced to other subcontractors primarily in Asia. We also use third-party contract manufacturers for a significant majority of our assembly and test operations, including Amkor, ASE, KYEC and TeraPower for our IC products, and BizLink for our AEC products. The failure to manage our relationships with our third-party contractors successfully could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and our reputation. Our revenue and operating results would suffer if these third parties fail to deliver products or components in a timely manner and at reasonable cost or if manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated, as we may be unable to obtain alternative manufacturing capacity. Relying on third-party manufacturing, assembly and testing presents significant risks to us, including the following: failure by us, our customers or their end customers to qualify a selected supplier; capacity shortages during periods of high demand; reduced control over delivery schedules and quality; shortages of materials; third parties infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our intellectual property rights; impairment of the operation or security of our products if errors or other defects occur in the third-party technologies we use, and difficulties correcting such errors or defects because the development and maintenance of those technologies is not within our control; limited warranties on wafers or products supplied to us; and potential increases in prices or reduced yields. 24 The ability and willingness of our third-party contractors to perform is largely outside our control. If one or more of our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring products to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, if that manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated at one or more facilities, including as a response to a general decline in the semiconductor or electrical cable industry, or any of those facilities are unable or unwilling to keep pace with the growth of our business, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders and our revenue could decline. In addition, if these third parties fail to deliver quality products and components on time and at reasonable prices, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not generally have long-term contracts with our suppliers and substantially all of our purchases are on a purchase order basis. Suppliers may extend lead times, limit supplies, place products on allocation or increase prices due to commodity price increases, capacity constraints or other factors that could lead to interruption of supply or increased demand in the industry. For example, public health crises, trade sanctions, the armed conflict in Ukraine and other factors have led to worldwide supply constraints, including with respect to wafers and substrates. Additionally, the supply of these materials may be negatively impacted by an unfavorable macroeconomic environment, including as a result of increased trade tensions between the U.S. and its trading partners, particularly the PRC. In the event that we cannot timely obtain materials in sufficient quantities or at reasonable prices, the quality of the material deteriorates or we are not able to pass on higher materials costs to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Additionally, as our fabrication and assembly and test contractors are located in the Pacific Rim region, principally in Taiwan, our manufacturing capacity may be similarly reduced or eliminated due to natural disasters, including earthquakes, drought or typhoons, political unrest, trade restrictions, war or undeclared armed conflict, including terrorism, labor strikes, work stoppages or public health crises. This could cause significant delays in shipments of our products until we are able to shift our manufacturing, assembly or testing from the affected contractor to another third-party vendor. There can be no assurance that alternative manufacturing capacity could be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. The success of our products is dependent in part on our customers ability to develop products that achieve market acceptance, and our customers may fail to do so. The success of our products is heavily dependent on the timely introduction, quality and market acceptance of our customers products incorporating our products, which are impacted by factors beyond our control. Our customers products are often very complex and subject to design complexities that may result in design flaws, as well as potential defects, errors and bugs. We have in the past been subject to delays and project cancellations as a result of design flaws in the products developed by our customers, changing market requirements, such as a customer adding a new feature, or because a customers product fails their end customers evaluation or field trial. In other cases, customer products are delayed due to incompatible deliverables from other vendors. We incur significant design and development costs in connection with designing our products for customers products that may not ultimately achieve market acceptance. If our customers discover design flaws, defects, errors or bugs in their products, or if they experience changing market requirements, failed evaluations or field trials or incompatible deliverables from other vendors, they may delay, change or cancel a project, and we may have incurred significant additional development costs and may not be able to recoup our costs, which in turn would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The complexity of our products could result in undetected defects; we may be subject to warranty claims and product liability, which could result in a decrease in customers and revenue, 25 unexpected expenses and loss of market share, and our product liability insurance may not adequately cover our costs arising from product defects or otherwise. Highly complex products such as ours may contain defects, errors and bugs when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. We have in the past and may in the future experience these defects, errors and bugs. If any of our solutions have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we may not be able to successfully correct these problems in a timely manner or at all. In addition, if any of our proprietary features contain defects, errors or bugs when first introduced or as new versions of our products are released, we may be unable to timely correct these problems. Consequently, our reputation may be damaged and customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers, and could adversely affect our financial results. In addition, these defects, errors or bugs could interrupt or delay sales to our customers. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a new product, we may incur significant additional development costs and product recall, repair or replacement costs. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. Generally, we attempt to limit our liability to the replacement of the part or to the revenue received for the product through our negotiated agreements, as well as our standard terms and conditions, but these limitations on liability may not be effective or sufficient in scope in all cases. If a customers equipment fails in use, the customer may incur significant monetary damages including an equipment recall or associated replacement expenses, as well as lost revenue. The customer may claim that a defect in our products caused the equipment failure and assert a claim against us to recover monetary damages. The process of identifying a defective or potentially defective product in systems that have been widely distributed may be lengthy and require significant resources, and may divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts. We may test the affected product to determine the root cause of the problem and to determine appropriate solutions. We may find an appropriate solution or a temporary fix while a permanent solution is being determined. If we are unable to determine the root cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix, we may delay shipment to customers. As a result, we may incur significant replacement costs, customers may bring contract damage claims and our reputation may be harmed. In certain situations, we may incur costs or expenses related to a recall of one of our products in order to avoid the potential claims due to a design or manufacturing process defect. Defects in our products could harm our relationships with our customers and damage our reputation. Customers may be reluctant to buy our products, which could harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. In addition, the cost of defending these claims and satisfying any arbitration award or judicial judgment with respect to these claims could harm our business prospects and financial condition. Although we carry product liability insurance, we cannot be sure that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims arising from defects in our products or otherwise. We may not accurately anticipate market trends and changing industry standards, and if we fail to develop and introduce products to adequately address these trends or prevailing industry standards on a timely basis, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impaired and our competitive position could be harmed. We operate in industries characterized by rapidly changing technologies and industry standards as well as technological obsolescence. We have developed products that may have long product life cycles of seven years or more. We believe that our future success depends on our ability to develop and introduce new technologies and products that generate new sources of revenue to replace, or build upon, existing product revenue streams that may be dependent upon limited product life cycles. If we are not able to repeatedly introduce, in successive years, new products that ship in volume, our revenue will likely not grow and may decline significantly and rapidly. To compete successfully, we must design, develop, market and sell new or enhanced products that provide increasingly higher levels of performance and reliability while meeting industry standards and the 26 cost expectations of our customers. The introduction of new products by our competitors, the delay or cancellation of a system or platform for which any of our products are designed, the market acceptance of products based on new or alternative technologies or the emergence of new industry standards could render our existing or future products uncompetitive from a pricing standpoint, obsolete or otherwise unmarketable. Our failure to anticipate or timely develop new or enhanced products or technologies in response to technological shifts or changes in industry standards could result in decreased revenue and our competitors achieving design wins over us. In particular, we may experience difficulties with product design, manufacturing, marketing or certification that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or marketing of new or enhanced products. Although we believe our products are fully compliant with applicable industry standards, proprietary enhancements may not in the future result in full conformance with existing industry standards under all circumstances. Due to the interdependence of various components in the systems within which our products and the products of our competitors operate, customers are unlikely to change to another design, once adopted, until the next generation of a technology. Moreover, products for our target markets are based on industry standards that are continually evolving, and industry standards are often developed and promoted by larger companies who are industry leaders and provide other components of the systems in which our products are incorporated. If larger companies do not support the same industry standards that we do, or if competing standards emerge, it could render our products incompatible with products developed by other suppliers or make it difficult for our products to meet the requirements of certain customers. As a result, if we fail to introduce new or enhanced products that meet prevailing industry standards and the needs of our customers or penetrate new markets in a timely fashion, and our designs do not gain acceptance, we will lose market share and our competitive position, potentially on an extended basis, and our operating results will be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technological advances will also require substantial time and expense. We generally do not maintain long-term supply contracts with TSMC or other third-party manufacturers or suppliers, and any disruption in our supply of products or materials, including raw material price fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Except for our agreement with BizLink for the manufacture of certain AEC products, we do not maintain long-term supply contracts with TSMC or generally with any of our third-party contract manufacturers or other suppliers. We make substantially all of our purchases on a purchase order basis. Our suppliers are not typically required to supply us products for any specific period or in any specific quantity, and we negotiate pricing with our main vendors on a purchase order-by-purchase order basis. We expect that it would take approximately 9 to 12 months to transition from our current foundry or assembly services to new providers. Such a transition would likely result in increased production costs and require a qualification process by our customers or their end customers. None of TSMC, BizLink or our third-party manufacturers or other suppliers have provided contractual assurances to us that adequate capacity will be available to us to meet our anticipated future demand for our solutions. We generally place orders for products with some of our suppliers several months prior to the anticipated delivery date, with order volumes based on our forecasts of demand from our customers. If we inaccurately forecast demand for our products, we may be unable to obtain adequate and cost-effective foundry or assembly capacity from TSMC or our other third-party manufacturers or suppliers to meet our customers delivery requirements, or we may accumulate excess inventories. Moreover, even if we accurately forecast demand for our products, we cannot be sure that TSMC or our other third-party manufacturers or suppliers will allocate sufficient capacity to satisfy our requirements. These third-party manufacturers often serve customers that are larger than us or require a greater portion of their services, which may decrease our relative importance and negotiating leverage with these third parties. TSMC and our assembly and test vendors may allocate capacity to the production of other companies products while reducing deliveries to us on short notice. In particular, other customers that are larger and better financed than us or that have long-term agreements with TSMC or our assembly and test vendors may cause TSMC or our assembly and test vendors to reallocate capacity to those 27 customers, decreasing the capacity available to us. If we enter into costly arrangements with suppliers that include nonrefundable deposits or loans in exchange for capacity commitments, commitments to purchase specified quantities over extended periods or investment in a foundry, our operating results could be harmed. We may not be able to make any such arrangement in a timely fashion or at all, and any arrangements may be costly, reduce our financial flexibility and be on terms that are not favorable to us. Moreover, even if we are able to secure committed foundry capacity, we may be obligated to use all of that capacity or incur penalties. These penalties may be expensive and could harm our financial results. To date, we have not entered into such arrangements with TSMC or our assembly and test suppliers. If we need another foundry or assembly and test subcontractor because of increased demand, or if we are unable to obtain timely and adequate deliveries from our providers, we might not be able to cost effectively and quickly retain other vendors to satisfy our requirements. Supply of raw materials may be negatively impacted by an unfavorable macroeconomic environment, including as a result of increased tensions and tariff measures between the United States and its trading partners, particularly the PRC. In the event that we cannot timely obtain sufficient quantities of materials or at reasonable prices, the quality of the material deteriorates or we are not able to pass on higher materials or energy costs to our customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Further, the cost of raw materials is a key element in the cost of our products. Our inability to offset material price inflation through increased prices to customers, suppliers, productivity actions or through commodity hedges could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many major components, product equipment items and raw materials are procured or subcontracted on a single or sole-source basis. Although we maintain a qualification and performance surveillance process and we believe that sources of supply for raw materials and components are generally adequate, it is difficult to predict what effects shortages or price increases may have in the future. Our inability to fill our supply needs would jeopardize our ability to fulfill obligations under our contracts, which could, in turn, result in reduced sales and profits, contract penalties or terminations and damage to our customer relationships. Furthermore, increases in the price of silicon wafers, copper cables, printed circuit boards (PCBs), testing costs and commodities, which may result in increased production costs, mainly assembly and packaging costs, may result in a decrease in our gross margins. Moreover, our suppliers may pass the increase in raw materials and commodity costs onto us, which would further reduce the gross margin of our products. In addition, as we are a fabless company, global market trends such as a shortage of capacity to fulfill our fabrication needs also may increase our raw material costs and thus decrease our gross margin. We rely on the ability to use and the success of third-party technologies to develop our products, and our inability to use such technologies in the future would harm our ability to remain competitive. We rely on third parties for technologies that are integrated into our products, such as wafer fabrication and assembly and test technologies used by our contract manufacturers, as well as licensed architecture technologies. If we are unable to continue to use or license these technologies on reasonable terms, or if these technologies fail to operate properly, we may not be able to secure alternatives in a timely manner or at all, and our ability to remain competitive would be harmed. In addition, if we are unable to successfully license technology from third parties to develop future products, we may not be able to develop such products in a timely manner or at all. The operation or security of our products could be impaired if errors or other defects occur in the third-party technologies we use, and it may be more difficult for us to correct any such errors and defects in a timely manner, if at all, because the development and maintenance of these technologies is not within our control. Any impairment of the technologies or of our relationship with these third parties could harm our business. 28 We may not be able to meet manufacturing yields that allow us to meet customer demand and maintain our gross margins. We depend on satisfactory wafer foundry manufacturing capacity, wafer prices and production yields, as well as timely wafer delivery to meet customer demand and enable us to maintain satisfactory gross margins. The fabrication of our products is a complex and technically demanding process. Minor deviations in the manufacturing process can cause substantial decreases in yields and, in some cases, cause production to be suspended. Our IC foundry vendor, TSMC, other manufacturers with which we contract and any foundries we may employ in the future may experience manufacturing defects and reduced manufacturing yields from time to time. If these vendors were to extend lead times, limit supplies or the types of capacity we require or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors, our revenue and gross margin may materially decline. Further, any new foundry vendors we employ may present additional and unexpected manufacturing challenges that could require significant management time and focus. Changes in manufacturing processes or the inadvertent use of defective or contaminated materials by the foundries that we employ could result in lower than anticipated production yields or unacceptable performance of our devices. Many of these problems are difficult to detect at an early stage of the manufacturing process and may be time-consuming and expensive to correct. Poor production yields from the foundries that we employ, or defects, integration issues or other performance problems in our solutions could significantly harm our customer relationships and financial results and give rise to financial or other damages to our customers. Manufacturing yields for new products initially tend to be lower as we complete product development and commence volume manufacturing, and typically increase as we bring the product to full production. Our business model includes the assumption of improving manufacturing yields and, as a result, material variances between projected and actual manufacturing yields will have a direct effect on our gross margin and profitability. The difficulty of accurately forecasting manufacturing yields and maintaining cost competitiveness through improving manufacturing yields will continue to be magnified by the increasing process complexity of manufacturing semiconductor products. We may be unable to develop or maintain our relationships with industry and technology leaders to enhance our product offerings. We develop many of our products for applications in systems that are driven by industry and technology leaders in the data infrastructure market. We also work with customers, system manufacturers and standards bodies to define industry conventions and standards within our target markets. We believe these relationships enhance our ability to achieve market acceptance and widespread adoption of our products. If we are unable to continue to develop or maintain these relationships, our products and solutions would become less desirable to our customers, our sales would suffer and our competitive position could be harmed. Average selling prices of our products generally decrease over time, which could negatively impact our revenue and gross margins. Average selling prices of semiconductor products in the markets we serve have historically decreased over time, and we expect such declines to occur for our products over time. Accordingly, if competition increases in our target markets, we may need to reduce the average unit price of our products in anticipation of competitive pricing pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors and for other reasons. Our gross margins and financial results will suffer if we are unable to offset reductions in our average selling prices by reducing our costs, developing new or enhanced products on a timely basis with higher selling prices or gross margins, or increasing our sales volumes. We seek to offset the anticipated reductions in our average selling prices by reducing the cost of our products through improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, assembly and testing costs, developing new products, enhancing lower-cost products on a timely basis and increasing unit sales. Because we do not operate our own manufacturing or assembly facilities or most of our testing facilities, 29 we may not be able to reduce our costs as rapidly as companies that operate their own facilities, and our costs may even increase, which could further reduce our gross margins. We rely primarily on obtaining yield improvements and volume-based cost reductions to drive cost reductions in the manufacture of existing products, introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and optimize die size and other price and performance factors that enable us to increase revenue while maintaining gross margins. To the extent that such cost reductions or revenue increases do not occur at a sufficient level and in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we are unable to offset these anticipated reductions in our average selling prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected. Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a variety of factors. Our gross margins may fluctuate due to a number of factors, including customer and product mix, revenue mix between various offerings, market acceptance of our new products, timing and seasonality of end-market demand, yield, wafer pricing, packaging and testing costs, competitive pricing dynamics and geographic and market pricing strategies. To attract new customers or retain existing customers, we have in the past and will in the future offer certain customers favorable prices, which would decrease our average selling prices and likely impact gross margins. Further, we may also offer pricing incentives to our customers on earlier generations of products which could negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, in the event our customers, including our larger customers, exert more pressure with respect to pricing and other terms with us, it could put downward pressure on our margins. In addition, we maintain an inventory of our products at various stages of production and in finished goods inventory. We hold these inventories in anticipation of customer orders. If those customer orders do not materialize in a timely manner, we may have excess or obsolete inventory which we would have to reserve or write-down, and our gross margins would be adversely affected. We may not receive timely payments from our customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to receive timely payments from our customers could adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable, and, as a result, our revenue. We regularly review the collectability and creditworthiness of our customers to determine an appropriate allowance for credit losses. Based on our review of our customers, we had no reserve for credit losses as of May 3, 2025 and April 27, 2024. If our credit losses were to exceed our current or future allowance for credit losses, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to accurately predict our future capital needs, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing to fund our operations. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. Any required additional financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible debt, investors may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest, and the newly-issued securities may have rights senior to those of the holders of our ordinary shares. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operational flexibility and would also require us to incur additional interest expense. If additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to scale back our operations or limit our production activities, and we may not be able to expand our business, develop or enhance our products or solutions, take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 We may not be able to effectively manage our growth without incurring significant expenditures necessary to address the additional operational and control requirements of our growth. To effectively manage our growth, we must continue to expand our operational, engineering and financial systems, procedures and controls and to improve our accounting and other internal management systems. This may require substantial managerial and financial resources, and our efforts in this regard may not be successful. Our current systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. In addition, in connection with operating as a public company, we incur additional significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. If our revenue does not increase to offset these increases in our expenses, we may not achieve or maintain profitability in future periods. Any failure to successfully implement systems enhancements and improvements will likely have a negative impact on our ability to manage our expected growth as well as our ability to ensure uninterrupted operation of key business systems and compliance with the rules and regulations applicable to public companies. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities or develop new or improved products or solutions, and we may fail to satisfy customer product or support requirements, maintain the quality of our products or solutions, execute our business plan or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to retain any distributors upon which we rely to assist in selling our products, or if any of these parties fail to perform as expected, it could reduce our future sales. To the extent we rely on distributors, we may be unable to predict the extent to which these distributors will be successful in marketing and selling our products. Moreover, many of these distributors are also likely to market and sell competing products, which may affect the extent to which they would promote our products. Even where our relationships are formalized in contracts, distributors have the right to terminate their relationships with us at any time. Our future performance may also depend, in part, on our ability to attract distributors who would be able to market and support our products effectively, especially in markets in which we have not previously sold our products. If we cannot retain distributors or find replacement distributors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Moreover, because we do not control the sales representatives and other employees of our distributors, any actions by the sales representatives and other employees of our distributors that do not comply with our sales process or priorities or applicable regulatory requirements could harm the reputation of our company or our products, result in legal liability to us or result in sales that are below our expectations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws, as well as sustainability initiatives and climate change regulations, could increase our costs, restrict our operations and require expenditures that could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. We and our manufacturers and other suppliers are subject to a variety of international laws and regulations relating to the use, disposal, clean-up of and human exposure to hazardous materials. Compliance with environmental, health and safety requirements could, among other things, restrict our ability to expand our facilities or require us to acquire pollution control equipment, all of which can be very costly. Any failure by us to comply with such requirements could result in the limitation or suspension of the manufacture of our products and could result in litigation against us and the payment of significant fines and damages by us in the event of a significant adverse judgment. In addition, complying with any cleanup or remediation obligations for which we are or become responsible could be costly and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changing requirements relating to the materials composition of our semiconductor products, including the restrictions on lead and certain other substances in electronic products sold in various countries, 31 including the United States, the PRC and Japan, and in the European Union, increase the complexity and costs of our product design and procurement operations and may require us to re-engineer our products. Such re-engineering may result in excess inventory or other additional costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may also experience claims from employees from time to time with regard to exposure to hazardous materials or other workplace related environmental claims. Increasingly, regulators, customers, investors, employees and other stakeholders are focusing on sustainability matters. While we have certain sustainability initiatives at the Company there can be no assurance that regulators, customers, investors and employees will determine that these programs are sufficiently robust. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish our announced goals related to our sustainability initiatives, as statements regarding our sustainability goals reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them within the timelines we announce or at all. Actual or perceived shortcomings with respect to our sustainability initiatives and reporting can impact our ability to hire and retain employees, increase our customer base, reelect our board of directors or attract and retain certain types of investors. In addition, many of our stakeholders are increasingly focused on specific disclosures and frameworks related to sustainability matters. Collecting, measuring and reporting sustainability information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming, is subject to evolving reporting standards, and can present numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal and other risks, any of which could have a material impact on us, including on our reputation and stock price. Inadequate processes to collect and review this information prior to disclosure could subject us to potential liability related to such information. There is a risk that we will be a passive foreign investment company for the current or any future taxable year, which generally would result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. investors in our ordinary shares. In general, a non-U.S. corporation is a passive foreign investment company (PFIC) for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any taxable year in which (i) 50% or more of the average value of its assets (generally determined on a quarterly basis) consists of assets that produce, or are held for the production of, passive income, or (ii) 75% or more of its gross income consists of passive income. For purposes of the above calculations, a non-U.S. corporation that owns, directly or indirectly, at least 25% by value of the shares of another corporation is treated as if it held its proportionate share of the assets of the other corporation and received directly its proportionate share of the income of the other corporation. Passive income generally includes dividends, interest, rents or royalties (other than certain rents or royalties earned in the conduct of an active business) and investment gains. Cash is generally a passive asset for these purposes. Goodwill is generally characterized as an active asset to the extent it is associated with business activities that produce active income. Based on the manner in which we currently conduct our business, our current and expected composition of our income and assets and the estimated value of our assets, we believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ending on May 3, 2025. However, our PFIC status for any year is based on an annual determination for such year, and there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. If we were a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. taxpayer held ordinary shares, the U.S. taxpayer generally would be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences, including increased tax liability on disposition gains and certain distributions and additional reporting requirements. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities or assessments could affect our profitability, and audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments. We are affected by various taxes imposed in different jurisdictions, including direct and indirect taxes imposed on our global activities. Significant judgment is required in determining our provisions for taxes, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by tax authorities. If audits result in payments or assessments, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities, and we could 32 be adversely affected. Any significant changes to the tax system in the jurisdictions where we operate could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Cybersecurity breaches, cyberattacks and other disruptions to information technology systems could disrupt our operations, compromise the confidentiality of our data or our intellectual property, and adversely affect our business, reputation, operations and financial results. We rely on our information technology systems, and those of our vendors, suppliers and customers, including hardware, software, cloud services, infrastructure, networks and systems, for the effective operation of our business and for secure maintenance and storage of confidential data relating to our business. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business we collect, store and otherwise process sensitive data, including intellectual property and proprietary business information as well as personal information of our customers and employees, on information technology systems, including systems that may be controlled or maintained by third parties. The secure operation of these information technology systems, and the processing and maintenance of the information processed by these systems, is critical to our business operations. While we strive to implement various controls and defenses, cybersecurity attacks and threats have continued to become more prevalent and sophisticated. These threats are constantly evolving, making it increasingly difficult to successfully defend against or implement adequate preventive measures. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts have in the past led to, and may in the future lead to, increased risk of cybersecurity attacks. Additionally, AI technologies also may be used to implement certain cybersecurity attacks or to increase their intensity, which may further increase risk. Notwithstanding defensive measures, experienced programmers, hackers, state actors or others may be able to penetrate our security controls, or those of our vendors, suppliers or customers, through attacks such as, but not limited to, phishing or other forms of social engineering, impersonating authorized users, ransomware, spyware, viruses, worms and other malicious software programs, software supply chain attacks, exploitation of compromised commercial software, bugs and other cybersecurity weaknesses and vulnerabilities, covert introduction of malware to computers and networks. Any attack on the information technology systems of us or one of our vendors, suppliers or customers may be difficult to detect, designed to remain dormant until a triggering event or may continue undetected for an extended period of time. In addition, our information technology systems and those of our vendors, suppliers, and customers may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to errors, negligence or malfeasance by employees, contractors, or others. Cybersecurity breaches, cyberattacks and other disruptions to our information technology systems or those of our vendors, suppliers or customers could compromise the confidentiality, operational integrity, and accessibility of our information technology systems, or those of our vendors, suppliers or customers, which could result in the compromise or unauthorized access to, or publication, loss or other processing of, our data (including personal information) or intellectual property, as well as interruptions or delays in our business operations, loss of existing or future customers and damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial results. In addition, such events could result in violations of privacy, data protection, cybersecurity or other laws or regulations, increase the risk of litigation or regulatory investigation, or cause us to incur losses, including if attackers initiate wire transfers or access our bank or investment accounts. We expect ongoing and increasing costs related to investments in technology, controls, processes and practices, however these investments may not be sufficient to shield us from significant losses or liability in the event of a cybersecurity breach, cyberattack or other disruption to our information technology systems. Our business may be impacted by information technology system failures or network disruptions, and lack of redundancy. Our ability to operate our business depends on the efficient operation of internal and third-party information technology systems, including cloud computing, data centers, hardware, software and applications, to manage our company. We strive to use quality and secure systems, work with reputable system vendors and implement procedures intended to enable us to protect our systems. 33 Our information technology systems and operations could be damaged or interrupted due to events such as natural or human-caused disasters, extreme weather, geopolitical events and security issues, computer viruses, cybersecurity breaches, cyberattacks, disruptions, telecommunication failures and similar events, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our systems are not fully redundant and depending on the severity of the damage or interruption, our disaster recovery plan and procedures may be inadequate or ineffective. These events could also damage our reputation, and result in increased costs or loss of sales. Risks Related to Our Industry Our target customer and product markets may not grow or develop as we currently expect. Within the data infrastructure industry, our target markets include networking OEMs, optical module OEMs, hyperscalers, 5G communications, IoT, HPC and artificial intelligence markets. Any deterioration in our target customer or product markets or reduction in capital spending to support these markets could lead to a reduction in demand for our products, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, these markets are relatively new and still developing, and if our target customer markets do not grow or develop in ways that we currently expect, demand for our products and solutions may not materialize as expected, which would also negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to predict the timing or development of trends in our target markets with any accuracy. If we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for these products and solutions, our business will suffer. A market shift towards an industry standard that we may not support could significantly decrease the demand for our products and solutions. Our future revenue growth, if any, will depend in part on our ability to expand within our existing markets, our ability to continue to penetrate emerging markets, such as the 5G communications market, and our ability to enter into new markets. Each of these markets presents distinct and substantial challenges and risks and, in many cases, requires us to develop new customized solutions to address the particular requirements of that market. Meeting the technical requirements and securing design wins in any of these new markets will require a substantial investment of our time and resources. We cannot assure you that we will secure design wins from these or other new markets, or that we will achieve meaningful revenue from sales in these markets. If any of these markets do not develop as we currently anticipate or if we are unable to penetrate them and scale in them successfully, our revenue may not increase or could decline. The market demand for 100G/200G/400G/800G/I.6T solutions may not sufficiently develop or may develop more slowly than expected. We are currently investing significant resources to develop semiconductor solutions supporting 100G/200G/400G/800G/1.6T data transmission rates in order to increase the number of such solutions in our product line. If we fail to accurately predict market requirements or market demand for 100G/200G/400G/800G/1.6T semiconductor solutions, or if our 100G/200G/400G/800G/1.6T semiconductor solutions are not successfully developed or competitive in the industry, our business will suffer. If 100G/200G/400G/800G/1.6T networks are deployed to a lesser extent or more slowly than we currently anticipate, we may not realize any benefits from our investment. As a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Our business is dependent on continued capital expenditures by data centers and service providers, and any downturn that such centers or providers experience could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on continued capital expenditures by data center service providers and is subject to the cyclicality of such expenditures. If the demand for our customers products declines or fails to increase, as a result of lower capital expenditures by service providers or any other factors, demand for 34 our products will be similarly affected. Global economic downturns have caused in the past, and may cause in the future, a significant reduction in capital spending on data infrastructure equipment, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to make the substantial and productive research and development investments, which are required for our business to remain competitive. The data infrastructure industry requires substantial investment in research and development in order to develop and bring to market new and enhanced technologies and products. Our products originated with our research and development efforts and have provided us with a significant competitive advantage. Our research and development expenses were $146.0 million for fiscal 2025. We are committed to investing in new product development in order to remain competitive in our target markets. We do not know whether we will have sufficient resources to maintain the level of investment in research and development required to remain competitive. In addition, there is no assurance that the technologies which are the focus of our research and development expenditures will become commercially successful. Increased investments in research and development or unsuccessful research and development efforts could cause our cost structure to fall out of alignment with demand for our products, which would have a negative impact on our financial results. The general compute and Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning (AI/ML) infrastructure market is an emerging market that will depend on the success of generative AI technologies, and this market may not develop as we currently expect, including due to regulatory uncertainty. Our hyperscale customers are increasingly pursuing AI/ML infrastructure, and we believe the AI/ML infrastructure market is a significant growth opportunity for our connectivity solutions. Our business operations and future prospects in the AI/ML infrastructure market will depend, in part, on the successful development, deployment, and market acceptance of generative AI technologies. Generative AI involves the use of advanced algorithms and machine learning techniques to create content, generate ideas or simulate human-like behaviors. While we believe generative AI presents significant opportunities for our connectivity solutions, there are inherent risks and challenges that could hinder our success in this domain, including but not limited to: Uncertain Commercial Viability: The development and adoption of generative AI technologies are still in their early stages, and their commercial viability remains uncertain. There is a risk that the demand for connectivity solutions for such technologies may not meet our expectations or that market acceptance may be slower than anticipated. Failure to achieve widespread acceptance and generate significant revenues from generative AI technologies could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Technical Limitations and Failures: The development of generative AI technologies is complex, and there are technical challenges associated with achieving the desired level of accuracy, efficiency, and reliability. The algorithms and models utilized in generative AI systems may have limitations, including biases, errors, or inability to handle certain data types or scenarios. Furthermore, there is a risk of system failures, disruptions, or vulnerabilities that could compromise the integrity, security, or privacy of the generated content. These limitations or failures could result in reputational damage, legal liabilities, or loss of user confidence which, in turn, could result in lower than anticipated demand from hyperscalers for connectivity solutions in the AI/ML infrastructure market. Regulatory and Compliance Risks: Generative AI technologies, and the perceived risks in the use and development of generative AI technologies, is emerging as a source of significant media attention and societal and political debate. The regulatory landscape surrounding generative AI technologies is evolving, and there is ongoing uncertainty regarding the extent of actions taken by governmental authorities, self-regulatory institutions or other regulatory authorities to curtail the development or use of generative AI technologies. For example, most recently the European 35 Union approved the EU Artificial Intelligence Act (the EU AI Act), which establishes a comprehensive, risk-based governance framework for artificial intelligence in the EU market and went into effect on August 2, 2024. Moreover, laws, regulations or industry standards that develop in response to generative AI technologies,like the EU AI Act, may be burdensome or may prohibit the deployment of generative AI technologies for one or more uses, any of which could result in lower than anticipated demand from hyperscalers for connectivity solutions in the AI/ML infrastructure market. Ethical Considerations and Public Perception: Generative AI technologies raise ethical concerns related to privacy, transparency, fairness, and potential misuse. Public perception of AI and its societal impacts could affect the adoption and acceptance of generative AI systems. Negative media coverage, public backlash, or ethical controversies involving AI technologies, whether related to any companys specific products or the industry as a whole, could harm the reputation of companies providing generative AI systems, limit their market opportunities or result in additional regulatory scrutiny, any of which could result in lower than anticipated demand from hyperscalers for connectivity solutions in the AI/ML infrastructure market. These risks are not exhaustive, and additional factors that are currently unknown or beyond our control may also impair the development, deployment or commercialization of generative AI technologies, which in turn would result in lower than anticipated demand from hyperscalers for connectivity solutions in the AI/ML infrastructure market and could materially and adversely affect our growth prospects and results of operations. We are subject to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and is characterized by constant and rapid technological change, rapid product obsolescence and price erosion, evolving standards, short product life cycles, and wide fluctuations in product supply and demand. From time to time, these factors, together with changes in macroeconomic conditions, can cause significant upturns and downturns in the semiconductor industry, and in our business. The industry has experienced significant downturns during recent global recessions. These downturns have been characterized by diminished product demand, production overcapacity, high inventory levels and accelerated erosion of average selling prices. Any future downturns could negatively impact our business and operating results. Furthermore, any upturn in the semiconductor industry could result in increased competition for access to third-party foundry and assembly capacity. We are dependent on the availability of this capacity to manufacture and assemble our products. Neither our third-party foundry nor our assembly contractors has provided assurances that adequate capacity will be available to us in the future. We cannot predict the duration or timing of any downturn or upturn in the semiconductor industry. Social and environmental responsibility regulations, policies and provisions, as well as customer and investor demands, may make our supply chain more complex and may adversely affect our relationships with customers and investors. There is an increasing focus on corporate social and environmental responsibility in the semiconductor industry. A number of our customers have adopted, or may adopt, procurement policies that include social and environmental responsibility provisions or requirements that their suppliers should comply with, or they may seek to include such provisions or requirements in their procurement terms and conditions. An increasing number of investors are also requiring companies to disclose corporate social and environmental policies, practices and metrics. Legal and regulatory requirements, as well as investor expectations, on corporate social responsibility practices and disclosure, are subject to change, can be unpredictable, and may be difficult and expensive for us to comply with, given the complexity of our supply chain and our significant outsourced manufacturing. If we are unable to comply, or are unable to cause our suppliers to comply, with such policies or provisions or meet the requirements of our customers and our investors, it could harm our reputation, such customers may stop purchasing products from us, 36 which would harm our revenue and results of operations, or such investors may sell their shares, which could cause the trading price of our ordinary shares to decline. In addition, as part of their corporate social and environmental responsibility programs, as well as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which imposes disclosure requirements regarding the use in components of products of conflict minerals mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries, whether the components of such products are manufactured by them or third parties, an increasing number of OEMs are seeking to source products that do not contain minerals sourced from areas where proceeds from the sale of such minerals are likely to be used to fund armed conflicts, such as in the Democratic Republic of Congo. This could adversely affect the sourcing, availability and pricing of minerals used in the manufacture of semiconductor devices, including our products. As a result, we may face difficulties in satisfying these customers demands, which may harm our sales and operating results. In addition, there are additional costs to us associated with complying with these disclosure requirements and customer requests, such as costs related to our due diligence to determine the source of any conflict minerals used in our products. Compliance with these requirements could be expensive and we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the origins for all conflict minerals used in products through the procedures we have implemented. Risks Related to Our International Operations Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by worldwide economic conditions, as well as political and economic conditions in the countries in which we conduct business. We outsource the fabrication and assembly of all of our products to third parties that are primarily located in Asia. In addition, we conduct research and development activities in the United States, mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. We also conduct marketing and administrative functions in the United States and mainland China. In addition, members of our sales force are located in the United States, mainland China, Taiwan, Japan and Canada. Accordingly, our business and operating results are impacted by worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions, which has been characterized by rising interest rates and inflation, tariffs, geopolitical instability, public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and supply chain uncertainty, has caused, and may continue to cause, businesses to postpone or reduce spending. This in turn could have a material adverse effect on our supply chain or the demand for our products or the systems into which our products are incorporated. Multiple factors relating to our international operations and to particular countries in which we operate could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. These factors include: complexity and costs of managing international operations, including manufacturing, assembly and testing of our products and associated costs; compliance with local laws and regulations and unanticipated changes in local laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations; reduced protection of intellectual property rights and heightened exposure to intellectual property theft; trade and foreign exchange restrictions and higher tariffs, including the ongoing trade tensions between the United States and the PRC that has resulted in higher tariffs on certain semiconductor products; timing and availability of import and export licenses and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, including export classification requirements; restrictions, including economic sanctions, imposed by the U.S. government or foreign governments on our ability to do business with certain companies or in certain countries as a 37 result of international political conflicts, war, climate change or public health epidemics, and the complexity of complying with those restrictions; transportation delays and other consequences of limited local infrastructure, and disruptions, such as large scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers; difficulties in staffing international operations; changes in immigration policies which may impact our ability to hire personnel; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; differing employment practices and labor relations; heightened risk of wars or undeclared armed conflict, terrorist acts, civil disturbances or political instability; regional health issues and the impact of public health epidemics on employees and the global economy, such as the worldwide COVID-19 pandemic; power outages and natural disasters; changes in political, regulatory legal or economic conditions, particularly in locations where we have substantial assets and where conditions could rapidly change; disruptions of capital and trading markets; difficulty funding and providing liquidity to our international operations, particularly in light of stringent PRC regulations; difficulty securing the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other distributions to us in the event we rely on our subsidiaries to fund financing requirements, considering restrictions under PRC regulations; and difficulty in obtaining distribution and support. These risks could harm our international operations, delay new product releases, increase our operating costs and hinder our ability to grow our operations and business and, consequently, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. For example, we rely on TSMC in Taiwan as the foundry for all of our semiconductor products. If political tensions between the PRC and Taiwan were to increase further, it could disrupt our business and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Our global operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements and failure to comply with such requirements, including unexpected changes to such requirements, could adversely affect our results of operations. We service our customers around the world. We are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal regimes of the United States and foreign national, state and provincial authorities on matters as diverse as anti-corruption, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, immigration, internal and disclosure control obligations, environmental impact, securities regulation, anti-competition, data protection, cybersecurity, privacy, labor relations, wages and severance and health care requirements. For example, our operations in the United States are, and our operations outside of the United States may also be, subject to U.S. laws on these diverse matters. U.S. laws may be different in significant respects from the laws of the PRC or Taiwan, where we have significant operations, and jurisdictions where we seek to expand. U.S. laws could also directly conflict with PRC laws, forcing businesses to choose between compliance with conflicting legal regimes. For example, in January 2021, the Ministry of 38 Commerce of the Peoples Republic of China (MOFCOM) issued MOFCOM Order No. 1 of 2021 on Rules Counteracting Unjustified Extraterritorial Application of Foreign Legislation and Other Measures (Order No. 1). MOFCOMs Order No. 1 established a blocking regime aimed at counteracting the impact of foreign sanctions on Chinese persons and entities. It allows MOFCOM to prohibit Chinese persons and entities from complying with identified foreign laws and creates a private right of action for Chinese entities and persons affected by those laws to seek damages. Order No. 1 will become operational once the Chinese government identifies the specific extraterritorial legislation and other measures to which it applies. These measures could include U.S. export controls and sanctions. We also may seek to expand operations in emerging market jurisdictions where legal systems are less developed or familiar to us. In addition, there can be no assurance that the laws or administrative practices relating to taxation (including the current position as to income and withholding taxes), foreign exchange, export controls, economic sanctions or otherwise in the jurisdictions where we have operations will not change. Changes in tax laws in some jurisdictions may also have a retroactive effect and we may be found to have paid less tax than required in such regions. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly, time consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our customers also could result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degrees of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. We are subject to government regulation, including import, export and economic sanctions laws and regulations that may expose us to liability and increase our costs. We are subject to government regulation, including import, export and economic sanctions (Trade Controls) laws and regulations that may expose us to liability and could increase our costs of doing business. The export or reexport of certain products, software and other technology may require export authorizations, including by license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations and conditions, including annual or semi-annual reporting. Export control and economic sanctions laws also include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain of our products to embargoed or sanctioned countries, regions, governments, persons and entities. Trade Controls laws, are complex and can change frequently and with limited notice and have generally become more stringent and have intensified over time, especially in light of ongoing trade tensions between the United States and the PRC. We may be required to incur significant expense to comply with, or to remedy violations of, these regulations. For example, we sell to markets in Asia where multiple companies are subject to export restrictions, resulting in license requirements for or, in some instances, the prohibition of, exports of items subject to control under Trade Controls laws of the United States and other countries to those entities. We are taking steps to continuously improve our compliance programs to prevent and, if necessary, detect violations of Trade Controls laws. However, despite our efforts, we have in the past and may again in the future determine that certain exports may have been made in violation of Trade Controls laws. While we have sought to address the deficiencies that resulted in the apparent violations through additional training, system enhancements and enhanced export controls, we cannot assure you that our policies and procedures relating to Trade Controls compliance will prevent violations in the future. If we fail to comply with Trade Controls laws, we and our employees could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including the possible loss of export privileges, monetary penalties and, in extreme cases, imprisonment of responsible individuals for knowing and willful violations of these laws. We may also be adversely affected through penalties, reputational harm, loss of access to certain markets or otherwise. In addition, various countries regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products and solutions or could limit our users ability to access 39 our products and solutions in those countries. Changes in our products and solutions, or future changes in Trade Controls regulations of the United States or other countries, may prevent our users with international operations from utilizing our products and solutions globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products and solutions to certain countries, governments or persons altogether. For example, in May 2019, the PRC government announced the establishment of the Unreliable Entity List, a framework for economic sanctions that could restrict or prohibit China-related export or import activities for listed entities, among other measures. In September 2020, the PRC government issued the Regulations on Unreliable Entity List, setting out principles for administration of the Unreliable Entity List framework. Any future change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products and solutions by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell products and solutions to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or solutions or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products and solutions would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict whether any material suits, claims or investigations relating to these laws may arise in the future. Regardless of the outcome of any future actions, claims or investigations, we may incur substantial costs relating to the investigation and defense of claims of potential violations and such actions may cause a diversion of management time and attention. Also, it is possible that we may be required to pay substantial damages, penalties or settlement costs which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is affected by new U.S. government regulations restricting outbound investments in China. On November 15, 2024, the Office of Investment Security of the U.S. Department of the Treasury published in the Federal Register a final rule to implement President Bidens August 2023 Executive Order on Addressing United States Investments in Certain National Security Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern (the EO). The EO provided for the establishment of a new and targeted national security regulatory framework directed at controlling outbound investment from the United States in certain sensitive industry sectors in the Peoples Republic of China (PRC) and the Special Administrative Regions of Hong Kong and Macau (collectively, China). This final rule (the Outbound Investment Rule) went into effect January 2, 2025. As implemented by the Outbound Investment Rule, the new framework imposes notification requirements and prohibitions on specified investments by U.S. persons in the semiconductor and microelectronics sector, quantum information technologies, and artificial intelligence (AI) systems. Within the semiconductor and microelectronics sector, prohibited investments include certain covered investments in electronic design automation software; certain fabrication and advanced packaging tools; the design, fabrication, or packaging of certain advanced integrated circuits, and supercomputers. Notifiable investments include any covered investments related to the design, fabrication, or packaging of integrated circuits not otherwise covered by the prohibition. The Outbound Investment Rule captures entities that are not based in China or Chinese-owned if certain financial thresholds are met. Certain of our subsidiaries that are organized and conduct substantial operations in China engage in certain covered activities under the Outbound Investment Rule. Given the breadth of the notification requirement as applicable within the semiconductor industry, we will likely be subject to increased regulatory burden to engage in certain investments in China. Such a mechanism could negatively impact our ability to realize value from certain existing and future investments, including by limiting our capital expenditures in our Chinese subsidiaries. Moreover, the Outbound Investment Rule ostensibly applies to indirect investments by U.S. persons in entities that are persons of a country of concern, which currently inhibits our ability to raise capital through equity financings with U.S. investors as our Chinese subsidiaries meet the applicable financial thresholds to be a covered foreign person. 40 Accordingly, the outbound investment reporting requirements and prohibitions could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. We face significant economic and political risks associated with doing business in Taiwan, particularly due to the geopolitical tension between Taiwan and mainland China, that could negatively affect our business and the trading price of our ordinary shares. We conduct a portion of our business in Taiwan, and our Taiwanese suppliers are critical within our supply chain. Accordingly, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price of our ordinary shares may be affected by changes in governmental policies, taxation, inflation or interest rates in Taiwan and by social instability and diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Taiwan which are outside of our control. In particular, the unique political status of Taiwan and its evolving relationship with mainland China has the potential to disrupt our business and the business of our suppliers. Past developments related to the interactions between mainland China and Taiwan, especially in relation to trade activities such as bans on exports of goods from time to time, have on occasion depressed the transactions and business operations of certain Taiwanese companies and Taiwans overall economic environment. We cannot predict whether there will be escalation of the tensions between mainland China and Taiwan, which may lead to new bans or tariffs on exports or even conflict. A substantial amount of our revenue is derived from products manufactured in Taiwan and as a result, disruptions to business in Taiwan could also adversely impact our business and results of operations. We are subject to potential political, legal and economic instability in Hong Kong. We generated 56% of our revenue in Hong Kong in fiscal 2025, and 43% of our assets (by book value) were held in Hong Kong as of fiscal 2025. Accordingly, political and economic conditions in Hong Kong and the surrounding region may directly affect our business. On May 28, 2020, the National Peoples Congress of the Peoples Republic of China approved a proposal to impose a new national security law for Hong Kong and authorized the Standing Committee of the National Peoples Congress to proceed to work out details of the legislation to be implemented in Hong Kong. On June 30, 2020, The Law of the Peoples Republic of China on Safeguarding National Security Law in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (the Hong Kong National Security Law) became effective. Among other things, it criminalizes separatism, subversion, terrorism and foreign interference in Hong Kong. As a result of the Hong Kong National Security Law, in July 2020, the U.S. government enacted the Hong Kong Autonomy Act, authorizing the U.S. administration to impose blocking sanctions against individuals and entities determined to materially contribute to the erosion of Hong Kongs autonomy. The Hong Kong Autonomy Act further authorizes secondary sanctions, including the imposition of blocking sanctions, against foreign financial institutions that knowingly conduct a significant transaction with foreign persons sanctioned under this authority. On the same day, the U.S. President also issued Executive Order 13936 pursuant to which existing license exceptions and preferential status for Hong Kong under relevant U.S. export control laws and regulations were revoked. The combined effect of the Hong Kong National Security Law, the Hong Kong Autonomy Act and Executive Order 13936 have caused, and may continue to cause, substantial market uncertainties for businesses operating in Hong Kong. It is difficult to predict the full impact of the Hong Kong National Security Law and the resulting sanctions and other measures by the U.S. and foreign governments against Hong Kong. We cannot rule out the possibility of additional sanctions or other forms of penalties by the U.S. and foreign governments against Hong Kong, which may impact our ability to business in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a special administrative region of the PRC and the basic policies of the PRC regarding Hong Kong are reflected in the Basic Law (i.e., Hong Kongs constitutional document) which provides Hong Kong with a high degree of autonomy and ensures its executive and legislative systems and independent judicial powers under the principle of one country, two systems. However, there is no assurance that there will not be any changes in the political arrangement between the PRC and Hong Kong, thereby affecting the economic, political and legal 41 environment in Hong Kong in the future. We cannot rule out the possibility of such change, which may impact our ability to conduct business in Hong Kong. We could be adversely affected by violations of applicable anti-corruption laws or violations of our internal policies designed to ensure ethical business practices. We operate in a number of countries throughout the world. We are subject to the risk that we, our U.S. employees or our employees located in other jurisdictions or any third parties that we engage to do work on our behalf in foreign countries may take action determined to be in violation of anti-corruption laws in any jurisdiction in which we conduct business, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA). In addition, we operate in certain countries in which the government may take an ownership stake in an enterprise and such government ownership may not be readily apparent, thereby increasing the risk of potential FCPA violations. Any violation of the FCPA or any similar anti-corruption law or regulation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil and/or criminal penalties and curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions and might adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we have internal ethics policies that we require our employees to comply with in order to ensure that our business is conducted in a manner that our management deems appropriate. If these anti-corruption laws or internal policies were to be violated, our reputation and operations could be substantially harmed. Any failure to comply with foreign exchange registration requirements may expose us or our PRC resident beneficial owners or PRC participants of employee stock incentive plans to liability and penalties under PRC law. In July 2014, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange of the PRC (SAFE) promulgated the Circular on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents Offshore Investment and Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Special Purpose Vehicles (SAFE Circular 37). SAFE Circular 37 requires PRC residents (including PRC citizens, PRC corporate entities and other persons that are deemed PRC residents) to register with SAFE or its local branches in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. SAFE Circular 37 is applicable to our shareholders who are PRC residents. SAFE Circular 37 further requires amendment to the SAFE registrations in the event of any changes with respect to the basic information and material matters of the offshore special purpose vehicle, including an increase or decrease of capital contribution by the PRC residents, share transfer or exchange, or mergers or divisions. However, due to inherent uncertainty in the implementation of the regulatory requirements by the PRC authorities, such registration might not always be practically available in all circumstances as provided in those regulations. While it is uncertain whether we will be deemed a special purpose vehicle as regulated by SAFE Circular 37, our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents may be required to conduct the registration, which registrations are yet to be completed, sometimes due to reasons beyond their control. Further, PRC citizens and certain PRC residents who participate in share incentive plans in overseas listed companies are required to register with SAFE through a domestic qualified agent, which could be the PRC subsidiaries of such overseas listed company, and complete certain other procedures. Our employees who are PRC citizens or residents and who have been or will be granted incentive shares or options may be subject to these regulations. Failure to complete the SAFE registrations may subject our PRC subsidiaries or our executive officers and other employees to fines and legal sanctions. We may not at all times be fully informed of the identities of all the PRC residents holding direct or indirect interests in our company, and we cannot assure you that all of our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents or entities, or all of our executive officers and other employees who are PRC citizens or residents and who have been or will be granted incentive shares or options, have complied with, and will in the future make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by, SAFE regulations. Failure or inability by our shareholders or beneficial owners who are PRC residents or by our executive officers and other employees who are PRC citizens or residents and who have been or will be granted incentive shares or options to comply with SAFE regulations, failure by us to conduct or 42 amend the foreign exchange registrations of our PRC subsidiaries, or failure to disclose or a misrepresentation of the controller(s) or ultimate shareholders of the foreign invested enterprise that is established through round trip investment, could subject us to fines or legal sanctions, such as restrictions on our overseas or cross-border investment activities or our PRC subsidiaries ability to make distributions or pay dividends to us. As a result, our ability to contribute capital to fund our business operations in the PRC and our ability to receive distributions from our PRC subsidiaries could be materially and adversely affected. We also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt additional incentive plans for our directors, executive officers and employees under PRC law. We are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates between and among the currencies of the countries in which we do business. Our sales have been historically denominated in U.S. dollars and, in mainland China, the Renminbi. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar or of the Renminbi relative to the currencies of the countries in which our customers operate could impair the ability of our customers to cost-effectively purchase or integrate our solutions into their product offerings, which may materially affect the demand for our products or solutions and cause these customers to reduce their orders, which in turn would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we increase operations in other currencies in the future, we may experience further foreign exchange gains or losses due to the volatility of other currencies compared to the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi. Certain of our employees are located in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Accordingly, a portion of our payroll as well as certain other operating expenses are paid in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi. Our results of operations are denominated in U.S. dollars, and the difference in exchange rates in one period compared to another may directly impact period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations. Furthermore, currency exchange rates have been especially volatile in the recent past, and these currency fluctuations may make it difficult for us to predict our results of operations. We have not implemented any hedging strategies to mitigate risks related to the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies, not every exposure can be hedged and, where hedges are put in place based on expected foreign exchange exposure, they are based on forecasts which may vary or which may later prove to have been inaccurate. Failure to hedge successfully or anticipate currency risks accurately could adversely affect our operating results. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may face claims of intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other violations, which could be time-consuming or costly to defend or settle, result in the loss of significant rights or harm our relationships with our customers or reputation in the industry. The semiconductor and data infrastructure industries are characterized by companies that hold patents and other intellectual property rights and that vigorously pursue, protect and enforce intellectual property rights. From time to time, third parties may assert against us and our customers their patent and other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. We may in the future, particularly as a public company with an increased profile and visibility, receive communications from others alleging our infringement, misappropriation or other violation of patents, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights. In addition, in the event that we recruit employees from other technology companies, including certain potential competitors, and these employees are involved in the development of products that are similar to the products they assisted in developing for their former employers, we may become subject to claims that such employees have improperly used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information. We may also in the future be subject to claims by our suppliers, employees, consultants or contractors asserting an ownership right in our patents or patent applications, as a result of the work they performed on our behalf. Claims that our products, processes or technology infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate third-party intellectual property rights, regardless of their merit or resolution, could be time-consuming or costly 43 to defend or settle and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. Infringement claims also could harm our relationships with our customers and might deter future customers from doing business with us. We do not know whether we will prevail in these proceedings given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any pending or future proceedings result in an adverse outcome, we could be required to: cease the manufacture, use or sale of the infringing products, processes or technology; pay substantial damages for infringement, misappropriation or other violation; expend significant resources to develop non-infringing products, processes or technology, which may not be successful; license technology from the third-party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all; cross-license our technology to a competitor to resolve an infringement claim, which could weaken our ability to compete with that competitor; or pay substantial damages to our customers or end-users to discontinue their use of or to replace infringing technology sold to them with non-infringing technology, if available. Additionally, even if successful in such proceedings, our rights in our products, processes or technology may be invalidated, or narrowed. Moreover, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our ordinary shares. Any of the foregoing results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any potential dispute involving patents or other intellectual property could affect our customers and vendors which could trigger our indemnification obligations to them and result in substantial expense to us. In any potential dispute involving patents or other intellectual property, our customers and vendors could also become the target of litigation. Our agreements with customers and vendors generally include indemnification or other provisions under which we agree to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for certain losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, customers require us to indemnify or otherwise be liable to them for breach of confidentiality or failure to implement adequate security measures with respect to their intellectual property and trade secrets. Although we normally contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, we may still incur substantial liability related to them. Any litigation against our customers could trigger technical support and indemnification obligations under some of our agreements, which could result in substantial expense to us. In addition, other customers and vendors may ask us to indemnify them if a claim is made as a condition to awarding future design wins to us. Because some of our counterparts are larger than we are and have greater resources than we do, they may be more likely to be the target of an infringement claim by third parties than we would be, which could increase our chances of becoming involved in a future lawsuit. If any such claims were to succeed, we might be forced to pay damages on behalf of our customers or vendors that could increase our expenses, disrupt our ability to sell our solutions and reduce our revenue. Any dispute with a customer or vendor with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with such customer or vendor and other current and prospective customers or vendors and reduce demand for our solutions. In addition to the time and expense required for us to supply support or indemnification to our customers, any such litigation could severely disrupt or shut down the business of our customers or vendors, which in turn could hurt our relations with them and cause the 44 sale of our products to decrease. Any of the foregoing could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to the protection of our intellectual property, particularly outside the United States. We use a significant amount of intellectual property in our business. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property can be difficult and costly and if we are unable to obtain, maintain and protect our intellectual property, our business could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part upon our ability to obtain and maintain patent and other intellectual property protection with respect to our products and the technology we develop. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign countries where we believe filing for such protection is appropriate. We also rely on trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality and non-disclosure and other contractual protections, to protect our proprietary know-how. We cannot assure that any patents from any pending or future patent applications will be issued, and even if our pending patent applications are granted, the scope of the rights granted to us may not be meaningful, may not provide us with a commercial advantage and may be subject to reinterpretation after issuance. The patent prosecution process is expensive, time-consuming and complex, and we may not be able to file, prosecute, maintain, enforce or license all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. It is also possible that we will fail to identify patentable aspects of our research and development output in time to obtain patent protection. Failure to timely seek patent protection on products or technologies generally precludes us from seeking future patent protection on these products or technologies. Even if we do timely seek patent protection, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued, and its scope can be reinterpreted after issuance. We cannot guarantee that: any of our present or future patents or patent claims will not lapse or be invalidated, narrowed, circumvented, challenged or abandoned; our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us; our ability to assert our intellectual property rights against others (including potential competitors) or to settle current or future disputes will not be limited by our agreements with third parties; any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought; our intellectual property rights will be enforced in jurisdictions where competition may be intense or where legal protections may be weak; any of the trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets or other intellectual property rights that we presently employ in our business will not lapse or be invalidated, narrowed, circumvented, challenged, abandoned or otherwise diminished or eliminated; or we will not lose the ability to assert our intellectual property rights against or to license our technology to others and collect royalties or other payments. In addition, our competitors or others may design around our protected patents or other intellectual property rights. Effective intellectual property protection may be unavailable or more limited in foreign jurisdictions relative to those protections available in the United States, or may not be applied for in one or more relevant jurisdictions. Even if foreign patents are granted, effective enforcement in foreign countries may not be available. The failure of our patents to adequately protect our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products or technologies, and our business, financial condition and operations could be adversely affected. 45 Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and costly. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have occurred or may occur in the future. Although we have taken steps to minimize the risk of this occurring, any such failure to identify unauthorized use and otherwise adequately protect our intellectual property would adversely affect our business. From time to time, we may need to commence litigation or other legal proceedings in order to: assert claims of infringement of our intellectual property rights defend our products from piracy protect our trade secrets or know-how or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the propriety rights of others. Lawsuits or other proceedings that we initiate to protect or enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights could be expensive, time consuming and unsuccessful. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their intellectual property or alleging that our intellectual property is invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, if we are required to commence litigation, whether as a plaintiff or defendant, we would also be forced to divert our attention and the efforts of our employees, which could, in turn, result in lower revenue and higher expenses. If we pursue litigation to assert our intellectual property rights, an adverse decision in any of these legal actions could limit our ability to assert our intellectual property rights, limit the value of our technology or otherwise negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legal fees related to such litigation will increase our operating expenses and may reduce our net income. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on other proprietary rights, including protection of trade secrets, and other proprietary information that is not patentable or that we elect not to patent. However, trade secrets can be difficult to protect and some courts are less willing or unwilling to protect trade secrets. We rely on contractual protections with our customers, suppliers, employees and consultants, and we implement cybersecurity measures designed to protect our trade secrets. We cannot guarantee that we have entered into such agreements with each party that may have or have had access to our trade secrets or proprietary technology and processes. The semiconductor industry is generally subject to high turnover of employees, so the risk of trade secret misappropriation may be amplified. Unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our trade secrets and other intellectual property could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us for doing so, which could harm our business. We cannot assure you that our contractual protections and cybersecurity measures have not been or will not be breached or that we will have adequate remedies for any such breach. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we have secured, or will be able to secure, effective protections for all of our trade secrets or other proprietary information that we use or claim rights to. Many of our products include intellectual property licensed from third parties, and we are party to a number of third-party intellectual property license agreements. Some of these license agreements require us to make one-time payments or ongoing royalty payments. We cannot guarantee that the third-party patents and technology we license will not be licensed to our competitors or others in the semiconductor industry. As a result, we may not be able to prevent competitors from developing and commercializing competitive products in territories included in all of our licenses. In the future, we may need to obtain additional licenses, renew existing license agreements or otherwise replace existing technology. We are unable to predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed or the technology can be replaced on acceptable terms, or at all. In that event, we may be required to expend significant time and resources to redesign our technology, products or the methods for manufacturing them or to develop or license replacement technology, all of which may not be feasible on a technical or commercial basis. Any disputes with our licensing partners with respect to such agreements could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property, increase our obligations under such 46 agreements or restrict our ability to develop and market our current or new products and services. Any of these events could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, certain of our agreements contain provisions permitting the other party to become a party to, or a beneficiary of, a source code escrow agreement under which we place certain proprietary source code in escrow with a third party. Under these source code escrow agreements, our source code may be released to the party upon the occurrence of specified events, such as in situations of our bankruptcy or insolvency or our failure to support or maintain our source code. Disclosing the content of our source code may limit the intellectual property protection we can obtain or maintain for our source code or our software containing such source code and may facilitate intellectual property infringement, misappropriation or other violation claims against us. In addition, from time to time, we enter into agreements with select customers, vendors and others to customize and otherwise develop technologies and intellectual property, and we expect to enter into new, similar arrangements from time to time in the future. Some of these agreements contain terms that allocate ownership of, and rights to use and enforce, technologies and intellectual property rights. As a result of these agreements, we may be required to limit use of, or refrain from using, certain of such related technologies and intellectual property rights in parts of our business. Determining inventorship and ownership of technologies and intellectual property rights resulting from development activities can be difficult and uncertain. Disputes may arise with customers, vendors and other third parties regarding ownership of and rights to use and enforce these technologies and intellectual property rights or regarding interpretation of our agreements with these third parties, and these disputes may result in claims against us or claims that intellectual property rights, which we believe we own, are not owned by us, are not enforceable, or are invalid. The cost and effort to resolve these types of disputes, or the loss of intellectual property rights if we lose these types of disputes, could harm our business and financial condition. A breach of our information technology systems or physical security systems, or any actual or perceived violation of privacy, data protection or cybersecurity laws, could harm our business and operating results. We rely on our information technology systems, as well as those of our vendors, suppliers and customers, to transmit, store and otherwise process electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personal information relating to employees, customers and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. We and our vendors, suppliers and customers face various cybersecurity threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our sensitive or proprietary information, denial-of-service attacks, requests for money transfers, ransomware, as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees. In addition, we face cybersecurity threats from entities that may seek to target us through our customers, vendors, subcontractors, employees and other third parties with whom we do business. We may experience cybersecurity threats such as viruses and attacks by hackers targeting our information technology systems. We can provide no assurance that our current information technology systems, or those of the third parties upon which we rely, are fully protected against such cyber security threats. Although such events have not had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity or reputation to date, future threats could, among other things: cause harm to our business and our reputation; disrupt our operations; expose us to potential liability, regulatory actions and the loss of business; as well as impact our results of operations materially. We believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. In some instances, we, our customers, and the users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. Due to the evolving nature of these cybersecurity threats, we cannot predict the potential impact of any future incident. While we take measures to protect the security of, and prevent unauthorized access to, our information technology systems and personal and proprietary information, the cybersecurity controls for our information technology systems, or those of our vendors, suppliers or customers, as well as other 47 cybersecurity practices we follow, may not prevent unauthorized access to, damage to, disablement or encryption of, use or misuse of, disclosure of, modification of, destruction of or loss of our data or the data of others (including personal information and proprietary information). Any actual or perceived cybersecurity incident could harm our business and operating results and could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties including our customers and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information or inventory, any of which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, privacy, data protection and cybersecurity are subject to frequently changing and complex laws and regulations, which sometimes conflict among the various jurisdictions and countries in which we provide services. We are subject to a variety of local, state, national and international laws and regulations that apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal information in the different jurisdictions in which we operate. Privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations, including the European Unions General Data Protection Regulation and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018, as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act of 2020 (CPRA) (collectively, CCPA), pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with privacy, data protection or cybersecurity laws and regulations could result in significant penalties. Compliance with U.S. and international privacy, data protection and cybersecurity laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices and compliance procedures in a manner adverse to our business. Any inability or perceived inability to adequately address privacy, data protection or cybersecurity concerns, even if unfounded, or to successfully negotiate privacy, data protection or cybersecurity contractual terms with customers, or to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to privacy, data protection or cybersecurity, could result in additional cost and liability to us, harm our reputation and brand, and could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the PRC regulatory authorities have promulgated the Personal Information Protection Law of the PRC and the PRC Data Security Law, to ensure cybersecurity, data and personal information protection. The PRC Data Security Law is a comprehensive data security legislation in mainland China and aims to regulate a wide range of issues in relation to the collection, storage, processing, use, provision, transaction and publication of any kind of data. There is significant uncertainty in how PRC regulators will interpret and enforce these cybersecurity and data privacy laws, but they contain provisions that allow substantial government oversight and include fines for failure to obtain required approval from or complete required filing procedures with Chinas cyber and data protection regulators for certain cross-border personal data-related data transfers. The laws outlined above are only a sample of the governmental laws, regulations and other legal obligations related to privacy, data protection and cybersecurity to which we may be subject. Various aspects of these laws, including their interpretation and enforcement, remain unclear, resulting in further uncertainty and potentially requiring us to modify our data practices and policies and to incur substantial additional costs and expenses in an effort to comply. Because the interpretation and application of many such laws and regulations, remain uncertain and continue to evolve, it is possible that these laws and regulations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our data management practices or the features of our products or solutions, and we could face fines, lawsuits, regulatory investigations and other claims and penalties, and we could be required to fundamentally change our products or our business practices, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection concerns, or to comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations, even if unfounded, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 48 We use certain software governed by open-source licenses, which under certain circumstances could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flow. Certain of our software, as well as that of our customers and vendors, may be derived from so-called open source software that is generally made available to the public by its authors and/or other third parties. Open-source software is made available under licenses that impose certain obligations on us in the event we were to distribute derivative works of the open-source software. These obligations may require us to make source code for the derivative works available to the public and/or license such derivative works under a particular type of license, rather than the forms of license we customarily use to protect our intellectual property. In the event that the copyright holder of any open-source software were to successfully establish in court that we had not complied with the terms of a license for a particular work, we could be required to release the source code of that work to the public and/or stop distribution of that work if the license is terminated, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. While we take steps to monitor the use of all open-source software in our products, processes and technology and try to ensure that no open-source software is used in such a way as to require us to disclose the source code to the related product, processes or technology when we do not wish to do so, such use could inadvertently occur. Additionally, if a third party software provider has incorporated certain types of open-source software into software we license from such third party for our products, processes or technology, we could, under certain circumstances, be required to disclose the source code to our products, processes or technology. This could harm our intellectual property position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, although some open-source vendors provide warranty and support agreements, it is common for such software to be available asis with no warranty, indemnity or support. Although we monitor our use of such open-source code to avoid subjecting our products to unintended conditions, such use, under certain circumstances, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and cash flow, including if we are required to take remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts. Risks Relating to Investments in Cayman Islands Companies We are a Cayman Islands exempted company and, because judicial precedent regarding the rights of shareholders is more limited under Cayman Islands law than under U.S. law, you may have less protection for your shareholder rights than you would under U.S. law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, as amended from time to time, the Cayman Islands Companies Act (as amended) and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against the directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The Cayman Islands Companies Act provides that a shareholder of a Cayman company shall be entitled to payment of the fair value of that persons shares upon dissenting from a merger or consolidation. However, such rights are not available in respect of the shares of any class for which an open market exists on a recognized stock exchange or recognized interdealer quotation system at the expiry date of the period allowed for written notice of an election to dissent where, upon the merger or the consolidation, the shareholder receives, amongst other things, either: (a) shares of a surviving or consolidated company, or depository receipts in respect thereof; or (b) shares of any other company, or depository receipts in respect thereof, which shares or depository receipts at the effective date of the merger or consolidation, are either listed on a national securities exchange or designated as a national market system security on a recognized interdealer quotation system or held of record by more than two thousand holders. 49 As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as that from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly defined as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less prescriptive body of corporate laws than most jurisdictions in the United States. In addition, some U.S. states, such as Delaware, have more fulsome and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law than the Cayman Islands. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may find it difficult to enforce a judgment of U.S. courts for civil liabilities under U.S. federal securities laws against us in the Cayman Islands or against our PRC or Hong Kong subsidiaries. Credo Technology Group Holding Ltd is a holding company incorporated as an exempted company under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We conduct substantially all of our operations through our indirect, wholly-owned subsidiaries in the United States and internationally. As such, it may be difficult for investors to enforce judgments obtained in the United States courts against our directors or officers. The courts of the Cayman Islands are unlikely: (i) to recognize or enforce against the Company judgments of courts of the United States predicated upon certain civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; and (ii) in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, to impose liabilities against the Company predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any State, so far as liabilities imposed by those provisions are penal in nature. In those circumstances, although there is no statutory enforcement in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, the courts of the Cayman Islands will recognize and enforce a foreign money judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits based on the principle that a judgment of a competent foreign court imposes upon the judgment debtor an obligation to pay the sum for which judgment has been given provided certain conditions are met. For a foreign judgment to be enforced in the Cayman Islands, such judgment must be final and conclusive and for a liquidated sum, and must not be in respect of taxes or a fine or penalty, inconsistent with a Cayman Islands judgment in respect of the same matter, impeachable on the grounds of fraud or obtained in a manner, and/or be of a kind the enforcement of which is, contrary to natural justice or the public policy of the Cayman Islands (awards of punitive or multiple damages may well be held to be contrary to public policy). A Cayman Islands Court may stay enforcement proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of the board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. Provisions in our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers. Cayman Islands law does not limit the extent to which a companys memorandum and articles of association may provide for indemnification of officers and directors, except to the extent any such provision may be held by the Cayman Islands courts to be contrary to public policy, such as to provide indemnification against willful default, willful neglect, breach of fiduciary duty, unconscionable behavior or behavior which falls within the broad stable of conduct identifiable as equitable fraud on the part of the 50 director or officer in question. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association provide for indemnification of our officers and directors to the maximum extent permitted by law, including for any liability incurred in their capacities as such, except through their own actual fraud, willful neglect or willful default. Our indemnification obligations may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against our officers or directors for breach of their fiduciary duty. These provisions also may have the effect of reducing the likelihood of derivative litigation against our officers and directors, even though such an action, if successful, might otherwise benefit us and our shareholders. Furthermore, a shareholders investment may be adversely affected to the extent we pay the costs of settlement and damage awards against our officers and directors pursuant to these indemnification provisions. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Ordinary Shares Our share price may be volatile and may decline, resulting in a loss of some or all of your investment. The trading price and volume of our ordinary shares is likely to be volatile and could fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our results of operations due to, among other things, changes in customer demand, product life cycles, pricing, ordering patterns and unforeseen operating costs; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; failure of securities analysts or industry analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us, publish negative research or reports, changes in financial estimates or ratings by any securities analysts who follow us or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; announcements by our significant customers of changes to their product offerings, business plans or strategies; announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in the data infrastructure or semiconductor industry; timing and seasonality of the end-market demand; cyclical fluctuations in the data infrastructure market and semiconductor industry; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; actual or anticipated developments in our business or our competitors businesses or the competitive landscape generally; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws, or regulations applicable to our business; changes in our management; general economic and market conditions; lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and 51 other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the market for technology stocks and the stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, shareholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Substantial future sales of our ordinary shares could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. The market price of our ordinary shares could decline as a result of substantial sales of our ordinary shares, particularly sales by our directors, executive officers and significant shareholders, or the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. As of May 3, 2025, we had outstanding a total of 171.2 million ordinary shares. All of these shares are freely tradable in the public market without restriction, except for any shares held by one of our existing affiliates, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As of May 3, 2025, we also had outstanding a warrant to purchase up to 4.1 million of our ordinary shares and options and restricted stock units covering 13.0 million of our ordinary shares. All of the ordinary shares that are issuable upon exercise of the outstanding options and restricted stock units have been registered for public resale under the Securities Act. The warrants and ordinary shares will become eligible for sale in the public market to the extent such warrants and options are vested and exercised or such restricted stock units are settled, subject to compliance with applicable securities laws. Moreover, certain of our shareholders have rights, subject to certain conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or our shareholders. Our actual operating results may not meet our guidance and investor expectations, which would likely cause our share price to decline. From time to time, we may release guidance in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise, regarding our future performance that represent our managements estimates as of the date of release. If given, this guidance, which will include forward-looking statements, will be based on projections prepared by our management. Projections are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to significant business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control. The principal reason that we expect to release guidance is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. With or without our guidance, analysts and investors may publish expectations regarding our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such third parties. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. If our actual performance does not meet or exceed our guidance or investor expectations, the trading price of our ordinary shares is likely to decline. If our estimates or judgments relating to our critical accounting policies are based on assumptions that change or prove to be incorrect, our results of operations could fall below expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable 52 under the circumstances, as described in the section entitled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, inventory valuation, income taxes, impairment of long-lived assets, share-based compensation, operating leases and fair value of ordinary shares. If our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, our results of operations may be adversely affected and may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares. Our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, if they choose to act together, have the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to shareholders for approval. As of May 3, 2025, our executive officers, directors and their affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 12.5% of our outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, such persons, acting together, will have the ability to control or significantly influence all matters submitted to our board of directors or shareholders for approval, including the appointment of our management, the election and removal of directors and approval of any significant transaction, as well as our management and business affairs. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us, or discouraging a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our business, even if such a transaction would benefit other shareholders. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents may discourage our acquisition by a third party, which could limit shareholders opportunity to sell their ordinary shares at a premium. Our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change of control transactions. These provisions include, among other things: a classified board of directors with staggered three-year terms; the authorization of the issuance of blank check preferred shares that our board of directors could use to implement a shareholder rights plan; restrictions on the ability of our shareholders to call meetings or make shareholder proposals; our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association may only be amended by a vote of shareholders representing at least two-thirds of the outstanding ordinary shares or by a unanimous written consent; shareholders are not permitted to increase the size of our board, fill vacancies on our board or remove directors without cause; and the ability of our board of directors, without action by our shareholders, to issue 50,000,000 preferred shares and to issue additional ordinary shares that could have the effect of impeding the success of an attempt to acquire us or otherwise effect a change in control. These provisions could deter, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us in a tender offer or similar transactions, even if such transaction would benefit our shareholders. Even in the absence of a takeover attempt, the existence of these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our ordinary shares if they are viewed as discouraging future takeover attempts. 53 If a United States person is treated as owning 10% or more of our outstanding equity, such holder may be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. If a United States person is treated as owning (directly, indirectly or constructively) at least 10% of the value or voting power of our outstanding equity, such person may be treated as a United States shareholder with respect to each controlled foreign corporation, or CFC, in our group. Because our group includes a U.S. subsidiary, certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries will be treated as CFCs (regardless of whether we are treated as a CFC). A United States shareholder of a CFC may be required to report annually and include in its U.S. taxable income its pro rata share of such CFCs Subpart F income, global intangible low-taxed income, and investments in U.S. property, regardless of whether we make any distributions to the United States shareholder. An individual that is a United States shareholder with respect to a CFC generally would not be allowed certain tax deductions or foreign tax credits that would be allowed to a United States shareholder that is a U.S. corporation. Failure to comply with these reporting obligations may subject a United States shareholder to significant monetary penalties and may prevent the statute of limitations with respect to such shareholders U.S. federal income tax return for the year for which reporting was due from starting. We are not required to assist investors in determining whether we are or any of our non-U.S. subsidiaries is treated as a CFC or whether any investor is treated as a United States shareholder with respect to us or our non-U.S. subsidiaries or furnish to any United States shareholders information that may be necessary to comply with the aforementioned reporting and tax paying obligations. The United States Internal Revenue Service has provided limited guidance on situations in which investors may rely on publicly available information to comply with their reporting and tax paying obligations with respect to foreign-controlled CFCs. A United States investor should consult its advisors regarding the potential application of these rules to an investment in our ordinary shares. General Risk Factors We may acquire businesses, enter into licensing arrangements or make investments in other companies or technologies that disrupt our business, are difficult to integrate, impair our operating results, dilute our shareholders ownership, result in the incurrence of debt, divert management resources or cause us to incur significant expense. We may pursue in the future acquisitions of businesses and assets, as well as technology licensing arrangements, that we believe will complement our products, solutions or technologies. We also may pursue strategic alliances that leverage our core technology and industry experience to expand our product offerings or distribution, or make investments in other companies. Any acquisition involves a number of risks, many of which could harm our business, including: difficulty in integrating the operations, technologies, products, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the acquired company or business; not realizing the anticipated benefits of any acquisition; difficulty in transitioning and supporting customers of the acquired company; difficulty in transitioning and collaborating with suppliers of the acquired company; diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; the risk that the price we pay or other resources that we devote to the acquisition may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; potential loss of key employees, customers and strategic alliances from either our current business or the acquired companys business; inability to successfully bring newly acquired products to market or achieve design wins with such products; 54 fluctuations in industry trends that change the demand or purchasing volume of newly acquired products; assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities, such as problems with the quality of the acquired products; inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs; the dilutive effect on our ordinary shares as a result of any acquisitions financed through the issuance of equity; inability to successfully complete transactions with a suitable acquisition candidate; and in the event of international acquisitions, risks associated with accounting and business practices or regulatory requirements that are different from applicable U.S. practices and requirements. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets that are subject to potential impairments, which could harm our financial results. If we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, it may impair our ability to achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions or investments, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. To finance any acquisitions or investments, we may choose to issue equity or equity-linked securities as consideration, which could dilute the ownership of our shareholders. If the price of our ordinary shares is low or volatile, we may not be able to acquire other companies for equity or equity-linked consideration. In addition, newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. If we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our operating flexibility, and would also require us to incur interest expense. Additional funds for acquisitions also may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, or at all. We depend on our executive officers and other key employees, and the loss of one or more of these employees or an inability to attract or retain highly skilled employees could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely upon the continued services of our executive officers and other key employees, including our engineering and sales and marketing personnel. From time to time, there may be changes in our executive management team or other key personnel, which could disrupt our business. We do not have employment agreements with our executive officers or other key personnel that require them to continue to work for us for any specified period and, therefore, they could terminate their employment with us at any time and with little or no notice. The loss of one or more of our executive officers or other key employees could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, to execute our growth plan, we must attract and retain highly qualified personnel. Competition for these personnel in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters is located, and in other locations where we maintain offices, is intense, especially for engineers with applications, or analog circuit technology design expertise. We have from time to time experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. Many of the companies with which we compete for experienced personnel have greater resources than we have. If we hire employees from competitors or other companies, their former employers may attempt to assert that these employees or we have breached legal obligations, resulting in a diversion of our time and resources. In addition, job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines, it may adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain highly skilled employees. Further, changes 55 in immigration policies may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain personnel, including personnel with specialized technical expertise. If we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain or motivate our current personnel, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business. Our corporate headquarters, our foundry vendor and some of our suppliers are located in areas that are in active earthquake zones or are subject to power outages, natural disasters, political, social or economic unrest and other potentially catastrophic events, any or all of which may increase as the result of climate change. In the event of a major earthquake, hurricane, flooding or other catastrophic event such as fire, power loss, telecommunications failure, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, political, social or economic unrest or disease outbreak, we may be unable to continue our operations and may endure system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in our product development, cybersecurity breach or loss or other unauthorized processing of data, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Litigation and other legal proceedings may adversely affect our business. From time to time we may become involved in legal proceedings relating to patent and other intellectual property matters, product liability claims, employee claims, tort or contract claims, federal regulatory investigations, securities class action and other legal proceedings or investigations, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations and divert the attention of our management from the operation of our business. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and can result in excessive or unanticipated verdicts and/or injunctive relief that affect how we operate our business. We could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims for monetary damages or for agreements to change the way we operate our business, or both. There may be an increase in the scope of these matters or there may be additional lawsuits, claims, proceedings or investigations in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Adverse publicity about regulatory or legal action against us could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers confidence and reduce long-term demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Market conditions and changing circumstances, some of which may be beyond our control, could impair our ability to access our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments and to timely pay key vendors and others. Market conditions and changing circumstances, some of which may be beyond our control, could impair our ability to access our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments and to timely pay key vendors and others. For example, on March 10, 2023, Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) was placed into receivership with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which resulted in all funds held at SVB being temporarily inaccessible by SVBs customers. While we did not maintain any accounts with SVB, if other banks and financial institutions with whom we have banking relationships enter receivership or become insolvent in the future, we may be unable to access, and we may lose, some or all of our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments to the extent those funds are not insured or otherwise protected by the FDIC. In addition, in such circumstances we might not be able to timely pay key vendors and others. We regularly maintain cash balances that are not insured or are in excess of the FDICs insurance limit. Any delay in our ability to access our cash, cash equivalents and investments (or the loss of some or all of such funds) or to timely pay key vendors and others could have a material adverse effect on our operations and cause us to need to seek additional capital sooner than planned. 56 If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of the applicable listing standards of Nasdaq. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and place significant strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure