MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and the audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the year ended April 30, 2021 included in our Prospectus. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements following the Table of Contents of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Credo is an innovator in providing secure, high-speed connectivity solutions that deliver improved power and cost efficiency as data rates and corresponding bandwidth requirements increase exponentially throughout the data infrastructure market. Our connectivity solutions are optimized for optical and electrical Ethernet applications, including the emerging 100G, 200G, 400G and 800G port markets. Our products are based on our proprietary SerDes and DSP technology. Our product families include ICs, AECs and SerDes Chiplets. Our IP solutions primarily are comprised of SerDes IP development and licensing. Data generation has increased dramatically over the past ten years, creating new and complicated challenges in both circuit and system design. Our proprietary SerDes and DSP technologies enable us to disrupt competition in existing markets, lead the way into emerging markets, and innovate to create new market opportunities. While many others in the data infrastructure industry struggle to meet customers increasing performance and energy efficiency requirements, we continue to innovate to deliver groundbreaking solutions. A recent example is the announcement of our HiWire Switch cable and open-source implementation with Microsoft that helps realize Microsofts vision for a network-managed dual-ToR architecture, overcoming complex and slow legacy enterprise approaches, simplifying deployment, and improving connection reliability in the datacenter. The multi-billion dollar data infrastructure market that we serve is driven largely by hyperscalers, HPC and 5G infrastructure. The demands for increased bandwidth, improved power and cost efficiency, and heightened security have simultaneously and dramatically expanded as work, education, and entertainment have rapidly digitized across billions of end-point users. Since our founding in 2008, we have achieved several significant milestones: From 2008 to 2012, we developed our proprietary, low-power, mixed-signal SerDes architecture which could scale from 25Gbps/lane to 50Gbps/lane and ultimately to 100Gbps/lane. In 2013, we began commercializing our core SerDes technology by providing connectivity solutions for the electrical and optical links in data centers. In 2014, we signed our first product contract with Non-Recurring Engineering (NRE) services as well as our first IP licensing contract. In 2016, we commenced production shipments of our Line Card PHY products. In 2017, we developed a 3.2Tbps chiplet for high bandwidth 12.8Tbps switches. This chiplet included 64 lanes of 50Gbps SerDes and was built in 28nm using Chip-on-Wafer-on-Substrate (CoWoS) packaging technology from TSMC. In 2018, we created AECs, a new category of datacenter system products, beginning with developing 400G DDC solutions up to seven meters in length. In 2019, we developed new DSP SerDes architectures optimizing the performance and power trade-offs for 400G and 800G solutions targeting Line Card PHYs, Optical PAM4 DSPs, and AECs. In 2020, we demonstrated the industrys first 40Gbs PAM3 SerDes in silicon. In addition, we engineered breakthrough Line Card PHYs and Optical PAM4 DSPs with leading performance and power for 50G/lane and 100G/lane solutions. In 2021, we launched new AEC solutions targeting ToR-to-NIC connections. Our solutions enabled dual-ToR server racks to seamlessly switch data traffic to the redundant ToR if a ToR port failed. 21 We design, market and sell both product and IP solutions. We help define industry conventions and standards within the markets we target by collaborating with technology leaders and standards bodies. We contract with a variety of manufacturing partners to build our products based on our proprietary SerDes and DSP technologies. We develop standard solutions we can sell broadly to our end markets and also develop tailored solutions designed to address specific customer needs. Once developed, these tailored solutions can generally be broadly leveraged across our portfolio and we are able to sell the product or license the IP into the broader market. During the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we generated $31.8 million and $13.5 million in total revenue, respectively. Product sales and product engineering services revenue comprised 84% and 68% of our total revenue in the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and IP license and IP license engineering services revenue represented 16% and 32% of our total revenue in the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, we generated $0.1 million and $5.1 million in net loss, respectively. We derive the substantial majority of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and we anticipate we will continue to derive a significant portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. We expect that as our products are more widely adopted and as our number of customers increase, customer concentration will decrease. Our Business Model We are a product-focused business with a strong foundation in IP, pioneering comprehensive connectivity solutions that deliver bandwidth, scalability, and end-to-end signal integrity for next-generation platforms. We also develop IP solutions to address the specific and complex needs of our customers. We earn revenue from these IP solutions primarily through licensing fees and royalties. In addition to product sales and IP license revenue, we also generate revenue from providing engineering services as part of our product and license arrangements with certain customers. Over time, we expect to generate an increased proportion of our revenue from sales of our products. We expect to see a long-term benefit from improvements in our operating leverage as our business continues to gain scale. We utilize a fabless business model, working with a network of third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our connectivity products. This approach allows us to focus our engineering and design resources on our core competencies and to control our fixed costs and capital expenditures. We employ a two-pronged sales strategy targeting both the end users of our products, as well as the suppliers of our end users. By engaging directly with the end user, we are able to better understand the needs of our customers and cater our solutions to their most pressing connectivity requirements. This strategy has enabled us to become the preferred vendor to a number of our customers who, in turn, in some cases, require their suppliers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), original design manufacturers (ODMs) and optical module manufacturers to utilize our solutions. 22 Revenue Mix and Associated Gross Margins We are a product-focused business with a strong foundation in IP and, as such, our customers engage with us through the purchase of our products or the licensing of our IP. In some instances, customers will engage us to develop tailored products or IP licenses to meet their specific application requirements. We charge these customers incremental fees for this tailored development which are in addition to product sales or IP license revenue, and we recognize these additional fees as product engineering or IP license engineering services revenue. By providing tailored engineering services to our customers, we believe we strengthen our customer relationships, enable additional sales and establish ourselves for potential long-term revenue opportunities from associated product sales or IP license revenue. A summary of our revenue and associated gross margin by these revenue sources is presented below (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended January, Nine Months Ended January, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Revenue: Product sales $ 22,706 $ 6,178 $ 48,423 $ 18,730 Product engineering services 3,954 3,010 6,628 5,349 Total product sales and product engineering services 26,660 9,188 55,051 24,079 IP license 5,022 3,154 12,194 11,551 IP license engineering services 118 1,116 1,706 3,317 Total IP license and IP license engineering services 5,140 4,270 13,900 14,868 Total revenue $ 31,800 $ 13,458 $ 68,951 $ 38,947 Gross margin: Product sales 46.1 % 33.7 % 45.4 % 41.6 % Product engineering services 89.6 % 66.0 % 72.7 % 57.1 % Total product sales and product engineering services 52.6 % 44.3 % 48.7 % 45.1 % IP license 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % IP license engineering services 59.3 % 75.8 % 72.9 % 75.8 % Total IP license and IP license engineering services 99.1 % 93.7 % 96.7 % 94.6 % Total gross margin 60.1 % 60.0 % 58.4 % 64.0 % Over time, we anticipate that our revenues from product sales and IP license will become a larger proportion of total revenue relative to engineering services. We incur certain costs associated with introducing new products to market which impact the gross margin associated with product sales. Over time, as revenue from our product sales increases, we expect these product introduction costs to decease as a percentage of product sales revenue resulting in a higher gross margin on product sales revenue. Factors Affecting Our Performance Our results of operations and financial condition have been, and will continue to be, affected by a number of factors including the following: Design Wins With New and Existing Customers Our solutions enable our end customers to differentiate their product offerings and position themselves to meet the demands of increasingly advanced networks. We work closely with our end customers to understand their product roadmaps and strategies and help them develop new products. Our goal is to develop solutions that support their product roadmap and development. If an end customer has tested our product, verified that it meets their requirements and the customer has informed us that the end customer intends to have our customer build it into their product, we consider it a design win. We consider design wins important to our future success. The selection process is typically lengthy and may require us to incur significant design and development expenditures in pursuit of a design 23 win with no assurance that our solutions will be selected. In addition, some design wins result in significant revenue and some do not, and the timing of such revenue is difficult to predict as it depends on the success of the end customers product that uses our solutions. Thus, some design wins result in orders and significant revenue shortly after the design win is awarded and other design wins do not result in significant orders and revenue for several months or longer after the initial design win (if at all). As a result, the degree to which we are successful in achieving design wins and the speed and level at which end customers ramp volume production of the products into which our product is designed will impact our success and financial results in future periods. Customer Demand and Pipeline Demand for our products is dependent on conditions in the markets in which our customers operate, which are subject to cyclicality and competitive conditions. We believe our relationships with the end customers of our products and the long-term implications of decisions to adopt our solutions, provide us with valuable visibility into customer demand. Furthermore, our customers generally provide us with periodic forecasts of their requirements. This provides an opportunity for us to monitor and refine our business operations and plans. The majority of our product sales are made pursuant to standard purchase orders. Changes in customer forecasts or the timing of orders from customers expose us to the risks of inventory shortages or excess inventory. Cancellations of orders could result in the loss of anticipated sales without allowing us sufficient time to reduce and manage our operating expenses. Pricing and Product Gross Margins Our revenue is also impacted by changes in the number and average selling prices of our products. Our products are typically characterized by a life cycle that begins with higher average selling prices and lower volumes, followed by broader market adoption, leading to higher volumes, and average selling prices lower than initial levels. Our product gross margins will be affected by the extent to which these declines are paired with improvements in manufacturing yields and lower wafer, assembly and test costs that offset some of the margin reduction that results from lower average selling prices as well as the extent to which we introduce new products with higher initial average selling prices and achieve market acceptance. Our gross margins may also be affected by changes in the price of silicon wafers, copper cables, printed circuit boards (PCBs), testing costs and commodities, and the extent to which we are able to offset any increases in our costs through increases prices to our customers, productivity actions or other means. In August 2021, TSMC, on which we rely as the foundry for all our semiconductor products, began informing its customers that it plans to increase the prices of its most advanced chips by roughly 10% and its less advanced chips by up to 20%, effective in late 2021 or early 2022 as a result of a global supply shortage that began in 2020. If we are unable to offset the increased costs associated with this price increase through pricing increases on our products, our gross margins may decrease. Our product gross margins may also fluctuate from period to period as a result of changes in average selling prices due to new product introductions or existing product transitions into larger scale commercial volumes and manufacturing costs as well as our product and customer mix. Product Adoption We develop and sell leading-edge connectivity solutions for digital infrastructure which are intended to replace existing legacy solutions and support our customers future applications and needs. Our success is dependent on customers adopting our new technology and preferring our solutions over competing offerings or other current or future technologies. Technology Development We operate in industries characterized by rapidly changing technologies, industry standards and technological obsolescence. We work closely with our customers to understand their product roadmaps and strategies to forecast their future needs. This helps inform our technology roadmap and development priorities. We also monitor forecasts by industry analysts and the adoption curve of technology as well as potential competing forces which could hinder adoption of our solutions. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to continually develop and introduce new products to meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, diversify our revenue base and generate new revenue to replace, or build upon, the success of previously introduced products which may be rapidly maturing. As a result, our revenue is impacted, to a more significant extent, by product life cycles for a variety of products and to a much lesser extent, if any, by any single product. In order to remain competitive, we have made, and expect to continue to make, significant expenses in research and development, and our research and development expenses in a particular period may be significantly impacted by specific product or engineering initiatives that we undertake to maintain our competitiveness and expand our product portfolio. If we fail to anticipate or 24 respond appropriately to new developments in technology, or to timely develop competitive new or enhanced products or technologies, our revenue could decrease and we could lose design wins to our competitors. Industry Trends and Cyclicality We continue to evaluate trends within the industry that affect our business performance. We design and develop high-speed connectivity solutions that deliver improved power and cost efficiency for the data infrastructure market. This market is driven by hyperscalers, HPC and 5G infrastructure. Accordingly, our revenue and business performance are influenced by the deployment and timing of broader market adoption of next generation technologies in data centers, particularly by hyperscalers, and in the HPC and 5G markets. The semiconductor industry is cyclical and is characterized by rapid technological change, evolving standards, product obsolescence, price erosion, and fluctuations in product supply and demand. Any prolonged or significant downturn in our industry generally could adversely affect our business and reduce demand for our products and otherwise harm our financial condition and results of operations. Impact of COVID-19 The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has significantly impacted global economic activity and caused business disruption worldwide. It has prompted governments and businesses to take unprecedented measures, including restrictions on travel, temporary business closures, quarantines and shelter-in-place orders. Since the onset of the pandemic in March 2020, most of our employees have transitioned to remote work, and we have temporarily prohibited most business travel. We have complied with the recommendations of government health agencies in each jurisdiction in which we operate throughout the pandemic. We formed a task force to track the spread of COVID-19 and other relevant metrics to stay informed and took several precautions to operate safely. We are very proud of the response of our employees, suppliers and customers to the demands of the pandemic. Our collective response meant that the impact to our business was significantly mitigated, and we believe the overall impact was relatively limited as a result. However, there has inevitably been some impact on our end customers potentially delaying or scaling down purchasing decisions that may have reduced our sales. Stay at home orders may have reduced our ability to most effectively market and sell our products and solutions while our research and development functions may have been impacted from being off-site. Over the longer term, we may see some positive impacts on our business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic accelerated requirements for increased bandwidth and lower latency, reduced power, and heightened the need for effective security as previously centralized work, school, and entertainment connections have disseminated across myriad end-point users. Although we are optimistic that the global response to the pandemic will continue to support an improvement in conditions, we are actively monitoring the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our financial condition, liquidity, operations, customers, suppliers, industry and workforce. The extent and nature of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial performance will be influenced by a variety of factors, including the duration and spread of the pandemic, as well as future spikes of COVID-19 infections or the emergence of additional COVID-19 variants that may result in additional preventative and mitigative measures. These factors may affect the timing and magnitude of demand from customers and the availability of portions of the supply chain, logistical services and component supply and may have a material net negative impact on our business and financial results. For additional information regarding the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, see Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our BusinessThe ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted and will likely continue to disrupt normal business activity and may adversely impact our operations and financial results in our Prospectus. Amazon Warrant On December 28, 2021, we issued a warrant to Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC (Holder) to purchase an aggregate of up to 4,080,000 of our ordinary shares at an exercise price of $10.74 per share (the Warrant). The exercise period of the Warrant is through the seventh anniversary of the issue date. Upon issuance of the Warrant, 40,000 of the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant vested immediately and the remainder of the shares 25 issuable will vest in tranches over the contract term based on the amount of global payments by Holder and its affiliates to us, up to $201.0 million in aggregate payments. Upon a change of control of us (including certain transfers of 50% or more of the voting power in the Company to a new person or group) in which the consideration to be received by our then existing shareholders consists solely of cash, the Customer Warrant, to the extent vested, will be deemed automatically net exercised immediately before the consummation of such change of control, and the remaining unvested shares under the Customer Warrant will thereafter automatically terminate. Upon a change of control of us in which the consideration to be received by our then existing shareholders consists of securities or other non-cash consideration, then we will cause the acquiring, surviving, or successor party to assume the obligations of the Customer Warrant, and the Customer Warrant will thereafter be exercisable for the same securities or other non-cash consideration that a holder of our ordinary shares would have been entitled to receive in connection with such transaction if such holder held the same number of shares as were purchasable under the Customer Warrant if the Customer Warrant had been exercised in full immediately before the consummation of such change of control, subject to further adjustment from time to time in accordance with the provisions of the Customer Warrant. The Warrant is accounted for as an equity instrument. When management determines that it is probable that a tranche of the Warrant will vest and we recognize the related revenue, the grant date fair value of the associated tranche will be recognized in shareholders equity and the underlying expense will be amortized as a reduction of revenue in proportion to the amount of related revenue recognized. Components of Our Operating Results Revenue Our revenues consist of sale of our products, licensing of our IP and providing product engineering and IP license engineering services. Product sales primarily consists of shipment of our ICs and AEC products. IP license revenue includes fees from licensing of our SerDes IP and related support and royalties. Product engineering and IP license engineering services revenue consists of engineering fees associated with integration of our technology solutions into our customers products and IP, respectively. Our customers are primarily OEMs who design and manufacture end market devices for the communications and enterprise networks markets. Our revenue is driven by various trends in these markets. Our revenue is also impacted by changes in the number and average selling prices of our IC products. We recognize revenue upon transfer of control of promised goods and services in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those goods and services. Where an arrangement includes multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to these on a relative standalone selling price (SSP) basis. We determine the SSP based on an observable standalone selling price when it is available, as well as other factors, including the price charged to customers and our overall pricing objectives, while maximizing observable inputs. Our policy is to record revenue net of any applicable sales, use or excise taxes. Changes in our contract assets and contract liabilities primarily result from the timing difference between our performance and the customers payment. We fulfill our obligations under a contract with a customer by transferring products or services in exchange for consideration from the customer. We recognize a contract asset when we transfer products or services to a customer and the right to consideration is conditional on something other than the passage of time. Accounts receivable are recorded when the customer has been billed or the right to consideration is unconditional. We recognize deferred revenue when we have received consideration or an amount of consideration is due from the customer and we have a future obligation to transfer products or services. Product Sales - We transact with customers primarily pursuant to standard purchase orders for delivery of products and generally allow customers to cancel or change purchase orders within limited notice periods prior to the scheduled shipment date. We offer standard performance warranties of twelve months after product delivery and do not allow returns, other than returns due to warranty issues. We recognize product sales when we transfer control of promised goods in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods, net of accruals for estimated sales returns. IP License Revenue - Our licensing revenue consists of a perpetual license, support and maintenance, and royalties. Our license arrangements do not typically grant the customer the right to terminate for convenience and where such rights exist, termination is prospective, with no refund of fees already paid by the customer. In connection with the license arrangements, we offer support and maintenance to assist customers in bringing up and qualifying the final product. Revenue from customer support is deferred and earned over the support period, which is typically one year. 26 In certain cases, we also charge licensees royalties related to the distribution or sale of products that use our technologies. Such royalties are reported to us on a quarterly basis. We estimate the sales-based royalties earned each quarter primarily based on our customers reporting of sales activity incurred in that quarter. We recognize the estimated royalty revenue when it is probable that reversal of such amounts will not occur. Any differences between actual royalties owed by a customer and the quarterly estimates are recognized when updated information becomes available. Product Engineering and IP License Engineering Services Revenue - Some product and IP license revenue contracts includes non-recurring engineering services deliverables. We recognize revenue from these agreements over time as services are provided or at a point in time upon completion and acceptance by the customer of contract deliverables, depending on the terms of the arrangement. Revenue is deferred for any amounts billed or received prior to delivery of services. We believe the input method, based on time spent by our engineers, best depicts the efforts expended to transfer services to the customers. Certain contracts may include multiple performance obligations for which we allocate revenue to each performance obligation based on relative SSP. We determine SSPs based on observable evidence. When SSPs are not directly observable, we use the adjusted market assessment approach or residual approach, if applicable. We also consider the constraint on estimates of variable consideration when estimating the total transaction price. We record liabilities for amounts that are collected in advance of the satisfaction of performance obligations under deferred revenue. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue includes cost of materials, such as wafers processed by third-party foundries, cost associated with packaging and assembly, testing and shipping, cost of personnel, including stock-based compensation, depreciation of equipment associated with manufacturing support, logistics and quality assurance, warranty cost, amortization of intellectual property purchased from third parties, write-down of inventories, and amortization of production mask costs. Costs of revenue includes cost of product sales revenue, cost of product engineering services revenue and cost of IP license engineering services revenue. Cost of revenue relating to IP license revenue was not material for the three and nine months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expense consists of costs incurred in performing research and development activities and includes salaries, share-based compensation, employee benefits, occupancy costs, pre-production engineering mask costs, overhead costs and prototype wafer, packaging and test costs. Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. We believe that continued investments in our products are important to our future growth and, as a result, we expect our research and development expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling expenses consist of personnel costs including salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation expense, field application engineering support, samples to customers, shipping costs, and travel & entertainment costs. We expect selling expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we increase our sales and marketing personnel and continue to expand our customer engagement. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs including salaries, benefits, and share-based compensation, related to corporate, finance, legal and human resource functions, contractor and professional services fees, audit and compliance expenses, insurance costs, and general corporate expenses including allocated facilities expenses. We expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we grow our operations and incur additional expenses associated with operating as a public company. These expenses as a result of operating as a public company include expenses necessary to comply with the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on a national securities exchange and related compliance and reporting obligations pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, as well as higher expenses for general and director and officer insurance, investor relations and other professional services. 27 Other Income and Expense, Net Other income and expense, net consists primarily of interest income from significant financing components related to IP license revenue contracts, and foreign exchange gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Current income tax expense or benefit represents the amount of income taxes expected to be payable or refundable for the current year. Under this method, deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial statement reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and net operating loss and credit carryforward. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates applied to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance is established when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. We account for uncertain tax positions in accordance with ASC 74010, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes . We recognize the tax effects of an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits as of the reporting date and only in an amount more likely than not to be sustained upon review by the tax authorities. Interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions are classified in the consolidated financial statements as income tax expense. Results of Operations Three and Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 The following table sets forth information derived from our consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended January, Nine Months Ended January, 2022 2021 2022 2021 Revenue: Product sales 71.4 % 45.9 % 70.2 % 48.1 % Product engineering services 12.4 % 22.4 % 9.6 % 13.7 % IP license 15.8 % 23.4 % 17.7 % 29.7 % IP license engineering services 0.4 % 8.3 % 2.5 % 8.5 % Total revenue 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Cost of revenue: Cost of product sales revenue 38.4 % 30.4 % 38.3 % 28.0 % Cost of product engineering services revenue 1.3 % 7.6 % 2.6 % 5.9 % Cost of IP license engineering services revenue 0.2 % 2.0 % 0.7 % 2.1 % Total cost of revenue 39.9 % 40.0 % 41.6 % 36.0 % Gross margin 60.1 % 60.0 % 58.4 % 64.0 % Operating expenses: Research and development 34.6 % 52.0 % 47.1 % 68.4 % Selling, General and Administrative 26.9 % 43.6 % 33.9 % 55.5 % Total operating expenses 61.5 % 95.6 % 81.0 % 123.9 % Operating loss (1.4) % (35.6) % (22.7) % (59.9) % Other income (expense), net (0.3) % 0.3 % (0.1) % (0.1) % Loss before income taxes (1.7) % (35.3) % (22.8) % (60.0) % Provision (benefit) for income taxes (1.2) % 2.7 % 1.6 % 2.7 % Net loss (0.5) % (38.0) % (24.4) % (62.7) % 28 Comparison of Three and Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended January 31, Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Product sales $ 22,706 $ 6,178 267.5 % $ 48,423 $ 18,730 158.5 % Product engineering services 3,954 3,010 31.4 % 6,628 5,349 23.9 % IP license 5,022 3,154 59.2 % 12,194 11,551 5.6 % IP license engineering services 118 1,116 (89.4) % 1,706 3,317 (48.6) % Total revenue $ 31,800 $ 13,458 136.3 % $ 68,951 $ 38,947 77.0 % Revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2022 increased by $18.3 million primarily due to increases in product sales revenue of $16.5 million, and IP license revenue by $1.9 million. The increase in product sales was primarily due to an increase in the number of AEC cables shipped that were introduced in fiscal 2021. Revenue from product sales comprised 71% and 46% of our total revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The increase in IP license revenue was driven by additional IP licenses delivered to customers. Revenue for the nine months ended January 31, 2022 increased by $30.0 million primarily due to an increase in product sales revenue of $29.7 million. The increase in product sales was primarily due to an increase in the number of AEC cables shipped that were introduced in fiscal 2021. Revenue from product sales comprised 70% and 48% of our total revenue for the nine months ended January 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended January 31, Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Cost of product sales revenue $ 12,230 $ 4,094 198.7 % $ 26,436 $ 10,936 141.7 % Cost of product engineering services revenue 410 1,023 (59.9) % 1,807 2,294 (21.2) % Cost of IP license engineering services revenue 48 270 (82.2) % 462 803 (42.5) % Total cost of revenue $ 12,688 $ 5,387 135.5 % $ 28,705 $ 14,033 104.6 % Cost of product sales increased by $8.1 million in the three months ended January 31, 2022, compared to the same period in fiscal 2021, primarily due to increased product sales during the same period as discussed above. Cost of product sales increased by $15.5 millionin the nine months ended January 31, 2022, compared to the same period in fiscal 2021, primarily due to increased product sales during the same period as discussed above. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended January 31, Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Gross profit $ 19,112 $ 8,071 135.8 % $ 40,246 $ 24,914 61.5 % Gross margin 60.1 % 60.0 % 58.4 % 64.0 % Gross margin for the three months ended January 31, 2022 was consistent with the same period in fiscal 2021. 29 Gross margin decreased by 5.6 percentage points in the nine months ended January 31, 2022, compared to the same period in fiscal 2021, primarily driven by an increase in our product sales as a percentage of overall revenue as noted above. We expect to see a long-term benefit from improvements in our operating leverage as our business continues to gain scale. Research and Development Three Months Ended January 31, Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 10,995 $ 6,993 57.2 % $ 32,488 $ 26,636 22.0 % % of total revenue 34.6 % 52.0 % 47.1 % 68.4 % Research and development expense for three months ended January 31, 2022 increased by $4.0 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2021. The increase was due primarily to a $2.7 million increase in personnel costs as a result of new hires for product development, a $0.3 million increase in share-based compensation expense driven by increased amortization expense from new equity awards granted to employees, and a $0.7 million decrease in allocation of R&D expense to costs of engineering services due to less engineering hours incurred that was associated to non-recurring engineering service revenue arrangements. Research and development expense for nine months ended January 31, 2022 increased by $5.9 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2021. The increase was due primarily to a $6.4 million increase in personnel costs as a result of new hires for product development, a $3.4 million increase in design activities and higher engineering activities relating to testing and laboratory supplies for new product development and a $0.7 million decrease in allocation of R&D expense to costs of engineering services due to less engineering hours incurred that was associated to non-recurring engineering service revenue arrangements, which was offset by $5.4 million decrease in share-based compensation expense driven by a one-time share repurchase transaction from employees during the nine months ended January 31, 2021. Selling, General and Administrative Three Months Ended January 31, Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Selling, General and Administrative $ 8,568 $ 5,872 45.9 % $ 23,393 $ 21,602 8.3 % % of total revenue 26.9 % 43.6 % 33.9 % 55.5 % Selling, general and administrative expense for the three months ended January 31, 2022 increased by $2.7 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2021. The increase was due primarily to a $1.3 million increase in personnel costs as a result of higher selling, general and administrative headcount, a $0.8 million increase in professional services spending and a $0.3 million increase in share-based compensation expense driven by increased amortization expense from new equity awards granted to employees. Selling, general and administrative expense for the nine months ended January 31, 2022 increased by $1.8 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2021. The increase was due primarily to a $3.5 million increase in personnel costs as a result of higher selling, general and administrative headcount, a $1.3 million increase in professional services spending and general increases in selling, general and administrative expense as a result from our growing business operations, which was offset by $3.8 million decrease in share-based compensation expense driven by a one-time share repurchase transaction from employees during the nine months ended January 31, 2021. Provision (benefit) for Income Taxes Three Months Ended January 31, Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 2021 % Change 2022 2021 % Change (in thousands, except percentages) Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ (387) $ 372 (204.0) % $ 1,116 $ 1,061 5.2 % 30 Provision for income taxes for the three months ended January 31, 2022 decreased by $0.8 million compared to the same period in fiscal 2021, resulting in a benefit for income taxes for the three months ended January 31, 2022. The fluctuation was primarily due to an increase in pre-tax book income for the three months ended January 31, 2022 and amended return to provision true-ups. Provision for income taxes was consistent in the nine months ended January 31, 2022 compared to the same period in fiscal 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our activities consist primarily of selling our products, licensing our IP, providing IP customization services and conducting research and development of our products and technology. Since our inception through January 31, 2022, our operations have been financed primarily by the sale of convertible preferred shares and ordinary shares, and cash generated from our customers. As of January 31, 2022 and April 30, 2021, we had $240.5 million and $103.8 million in cash and cash equivalents, respectively, and working capital of $276.0 million and $125.3 million, respectively. Our principal use of cash is to fund our operations and invest in research and development to support our growth. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents and other components of working capital will be sufficient to meet our needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of our sales and marketing and research and development expenditures, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions. In the event that we need to borrow funds or issue additional equity, we cannot assure you that any such additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when we need it, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated. Nine Months Ended January 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (33,192) $ (30,849) Net cash used in investing activities $ (7,932) $ (6,532) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 178,014 $ 77,674 Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $33.2 million for the nine months ended January 31, 2022. The cash outflows from operating activities for the nine months ended January 31, 2022 were primarily due to $16.8 million of net loss and $25.1 million of cash outflows for working capital purposes, partially offset by $8.7 million of non-cash items. The cash outflows from working capital for the nine months ended January 31, 2022 were primarily driven by an increase in accounts receivable and inventories, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable, and accrued expenses and other liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities was $31.0 million for the nine months ended January 31, 2021. The cash outflows from operating activities for the nine months ended January 31, 2021 were primarily due to $24.4 million of net loss and $10.8 million of cash outflows from working capital, partially offset by $4.2 million of non-cash items. The cash outflows from working capital for the nine months ended January 31, 2021 were primarily driven by an increase in inventories and a decrease in deferred revenue, and accrued expenses and other liabilities, partially offset by a decrease in accounts receivable. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $7.9 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2022 was attributable to purchases of property and equipment. Purchases of property and equipment primarily related to mask sets purchases for new products introduced or in process of being introduced and laboratory equipment used for research and development purposes. Net cash used in investing activities of $6.5 million in the nine months ended January 31, 2021 was attributable to purchases of property and equipment. Purchases of property and equipment primarily related to mask sets purchases 31 for new products introduced or in process of being introduced and laboratory equipment used for research and development purposes. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $178.0 million for the nine months ended January 31, 2022 was primarily attributable to $168.8 million in proceeds from IPO, net of underwriting discounts and commissions, and offering costs, $1.9 million in proceeds from exercises of share options and $7.2 million in proceeds from the issuance of convertible preferred shares, net of issuance costs. Net cash provided by financing activities of $77.8 million for the nine months ended January 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to $1.1 million in proceeds from exercises of share options and $99.6 million in proceeds from the issuance of convertible preferred shares, net of issuance costs. This cash inflow was partially offset by $22.9 million in payments for repurchases of ordinary shares. Critical Accounting Estimates We prepare our financial statements in conformity with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires certain estimates, assumptions and judgments to be made that may affect our consolidated financial statements. Accounting policies that have a significant impact on our results are described in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this prospectus. The accounting policies discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if the policy is subject to a material level of judgment and if changes in those judgments are reasonably likely to materially impact our results. We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience, knowledge of current conditions, and our beliefs of what could occur in the future, given the available information. Estimates are used for, but not limited to, write-down for excess and obsolete inventories, the SSP for each distinct performance obligation included in customer contracts with multiple performance obligations, variable consideration from revenue contracts, determination of the fair value of share awards, valuation of ordinary shares and the realization of tax assets and estimates of tax reserves. Actual results may differ from those estimates and such differences may be material to the financial statements. We continue to monitor and assess our critical estimates in light of developments, and as events continue to evolve and additional information becomes available, our estimates may change materially in future periods. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates during the three months ended January 31, 2022, as compared to those disclosed under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates in our Prospectus. Recent Accounting Pronouncements For more information, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This provision allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of some accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates.