Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation sections, among others. Other risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The discussion of our risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included herein. Risk Factors Relating to Our Business The Company depends upon relationships with others to acquire technology opportunities that can develop into revenues and, if it is unable to maintain and generate new relationships, then the Companys revenue may not increase and may decline. The Company does not invent new technologies or products; it depends on acquiring exclusive relationships with new patents and inventions through its relationships with inventors, universities, research institutions, and others. If the Company is unable to maintain those relationships and continue to grow new relationships, then it may not be able to identify new technology-based opportunities for growth and sustainable revenue. Further, because we rely upon acquiring technology developed others, we cannot be certain that we will be able to obtain the volume and quality of available new portfolios necessary to increase our growth. If we are unable to obtain the necessary volume and quality of new technologies, then we may need to reduce operations or revise our business model. We may not be successful in identifying market needs for new technologies and developing new products to meet those needs. The success of our business model depends on our ability to identify correctly market needs for new technologies. We intend to identify new market needs, but we may not always have success in doing so. Furthermore, we must identify the most promising technologies from a sizable pool of projects. If our commercialization strategy process fails to identify projects with commercial potential or if management does not ensure that such projects advance to the commercialization stage, we may not successfully commercialize new products and grow our revenues. Our growth strategy requires that we not only identify new technologies that meet market needs, but that we also develop successful commercial products that address those needs. We face several challenges in developing successful new products. We expect that one or more of the potential products we choose to commercialize will not be technologically feasible or will not achieve commercial acceptance, and we cannot predict which, if any, of our portfolios we will successfully develop or commercialize. The technologies we research and develop are new and steadily changing and advancing. The products that are derived from these technologies may not be applicable or compatible with the state of technology or demands in existing markets. Our existing portfolios may become uncompetitive or obsolete if our competitors adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies and changes in customers requirements. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify if and when new markets will open for portfolios given that future applications of any given product may not be readily determinable, and we cannot reasonably estimate the size of any markets that may develop. If we are not able to successfully develop new products, we may be unable to increase our product revenues. Competition is intense in the industries in which we do business and, we may not be able to grow or maintain our market share for our technologies and patents. We expect to encounter competition in the area of patent licensing, sales and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. This includes competitors seeking to represent or acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that we may seek to represent. Companies such as British Technology Group, Rembrandt Management Group, Intellectual Ventures LLC and Acacia Technologies Group are already in the business of acquiring the rights to patents for the purpose of enforcement, and we expect more companies to enter the market. As new technological advances occur, many of our patented technologies may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. If we are unable to replace obsolete Portfolios with more technologically advanced patented technologies, then this obsolescence could have a negative effect on our ability to generate future revenues. We also compete with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for technology licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than we do. As we become more successful, we may find more companies entering the market for similar technology opportunities, which may reduce our market share in one or more technology industries that we currently rely upon to generate future revenue. 7 Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the nature of our business, our quarterly revenues and operating results could fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter in the future which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause the Companys operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: the performance of our third-party licensees; costs related to acquisitions, alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our operations; the timing of payments under the terms of any customer or license agreements into which the Company may enter; expenses related to patent filings and other enforcement proceedings relating to Portfolios we represent; and general and economic market conditions. New legislation, regulations or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our Companys operating costs and decrease its revenue. Our Company will derive revenues from the sale, licensing and enforcing of IP contained in our Portfolios. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of our enforcement actions, new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions and changes in the law regarding the enforceability of patents could decrease the revenues we derive from the sale of patents to third-parties. Although we cannot predict if or how any future legislation or court decisions would impact our business, any future changes in the law could limit our ability to collect on our Portfolios which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we will diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. More patent applications are filed each year resulting in longer delays in getting patents issued by the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Our Portfolios may also include pending patents that our clients seek to monetize. We have identified a trend of increasing patent applications each year, which we believe is resulting in longer delays in obtaining approval of pending patent applications. The delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause us to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. Federal court dockets are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. Patent enforcement actions will almost exclusively be prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases. Criminal cases always take priority over patent actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions will have a greater affect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. Any reductions in the funding of the United States Patent and Trademark Office could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications. The Portfolios from which the Company derives revenues consists of issued patents as well as pending patent applications before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The value of our patent portfolios is dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could negatively impact the value of our assets. 8 The patented technologies we represent face uncertain market value. We represent patents and technologies that are at early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which our licensees will adopt our patents and technologies in their products and services. Accordingly, the market value of the patented technologies we represent and the revenues we may derive from such patented technologies is uncertain. As patent licensing campaigns become more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents. As patent licensing campaigns become more prevalent, companies may resist licensing our patents voluntarily in order to deter additional patent license requests from us or from others. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license the patent or pay damages for lost royalties. This may increase the risks associated with an investment in our Company. The success of the Company depends, in part, on our ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent our Portfolios in patent enforcement actions. The success of IP Technology Services, Inc. depends upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to prosecute patent infringement litigation. As our patent enforcement actions increase, it will become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents its representation of our company. The Company may rely on representations and opinions made by third parties that, if determined to be false or inaccurate, may expose the Company to certain liabilities that could be material. From time to time, the Company may rely upon representations made by third parties from whom the Company acquires the exclusive rights to license, sell and enforce patents. We also may rely upon the opinions of purported experts. In certain instances, we may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations and opinions are made. By relying on these representations and opinions, the Company may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing, sale and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights. It is difficult to predict the extent and nature of such liabilities which, in some instances, may be material. We may not be able to raise sufficient capital or generate adequate revenue to meet our obligations and fund our operating expenses. Failure to raise adequate capital and generate adequate revenues to acquire exclusive relationships with new patents and inventions and sustain our operations could result in our having to curtail or cease operations. Additionally, even if we do raise sufficient capital and generate revenues to support our operating expenses, there can be no assurances that the revenue will be sufficient to enable us to develop business to a level where it will generate profits and cash flows from operations. Going Concern The report of the Company's independent registered public accounting firm on the Company's financial statements for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 contains an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company's ability to continue as a going concern based upon the Company's history of net losses since its inception. During fiscal 2010, we did not earn revenues from our business operations. Accordingly, we may be required to raise cash from sources other than our operations in order to continue our business plan. We may raise this additional capital either through debt or equity. No assurance can be given that such efforts will be successful. We have no specific plans at present for raising additional capital. If we are unable to obtain additional funding, our business operations will be harmed. Even if we do obtain additional financing, our then existing shareholders may suffer substantial dilution. We may require additional funds to operate our business. It is possible that additional capital will be required to effectively support the operations and to otherwise implement our overall business strategy. The inability to raise the required capital will restrict our ability to grow and may reduce our ability to continue to conduct business operations. If we are unable to obtain necessary financing, we will likely be required to curtail our business plans which could cause the Company to become dormant. We currently do not have any arrangements or agreements to raise additional capital. Any additional equity financing may involve substantial dilution to our then existing shareholders. 9 Because we do not have an audit or compensation committee, shareholders will have to rely on our President, who is not independent, to perform these functions. We do not have an audit or compensation committee comprised of independent directors. Indeed, we do not have any audit or compensation committee. These functions are performed by our President. Thus, there is a potential conflict of interest in that our president has the authority to determine issues concerning management compensation and audit issues that may affect management decisions. Shareholders may be diluted significantly through our efforts to obtain financing and satisfy obligations through issuance of additional shares of our common stock. We have no committed source of financing. Wherever possible, our board of directors will attempt to use non-cash consideration to satisfy obligations. In many instances, we believe that the non-cash consideration will consist of shares of our stock. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of the shareholders, to issue all or part of the authorized (99,000,000) but unissued (96,500,000) common shares. In addition, if a trading market develops for our common stock, we may attempt to raise capital by selling shares of our common stock, possibly at a discount to market. These actions will result in dilution of the ownership interests of existing shareholders, may further dilute common stock book value, and that dilution may be material. Such issuances may also serve to enhance existing managements ability to maintain control of the Company because the shares may be issued to parties or entities committed to supporting existing management. The Company is and will continue to be completely dependent on the services of its president Neil Rock, the loss of whose services may cause our business operations to cease, and we will need to engage and retain qualified employees and consultants to further implement our strategy. The Companys operations and business strategy are completely dependent upon Neil Rock, our President. He is under no contractual obligation to remain employed by us. If he should choose to leave us for any reason before we have hired additional personnel, our operations may fail. Even if we are able to find additional personnel, it is uncertain whether we could find someone who could develop our business along the lines described herein. We will fail without Mr. Rock or an appropriate replacement(s). We intend to acquire key-man life insurance on the life of Mr. Rock naming us as the beneficiary when and if we obtain the resources to do so and Mr. Rock remains insurable. We have not yet procured such insurance, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such insurance in the future. Accordingly, it is important that we are able to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified and talented personnel and independent contractors. Our articles of incorporation provide for indemnification of officers and directors at our expense and limit their liability which may result in a major cost to us and hurt the interests of our shareholders because corporate resources may be expended for the benefit of officers and/or directors. Our articles of incorporation and applicable Delaware law provide for the indemnification of our directors, officers, employees, and agents, under certain circumstances, against attorney's fees and other expenses incurred by them in any litigation to which they become a party arising from their association with or activities on our behalf. We will also bear the expenses of such litigation for any of our directors, officers, employees, or agents, upon such person's promise to repay us. Therefore if it is ultimately determined that any such person shall not have been entitled to indemnification, this indemnification policy could result in substantial expenditures by us which we will be unable to recoup. 10 Our board of directors has the authority, without stockholder approval, to issue preferred stock with terms that may not be beneficial to common stockholders and with the ability to affect adversely stockholder voting power and perpetuate their control over the Company. Our certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $.0001 per share. The specific terms of the preferred stock have not been determined, including: designations; preferences; conversions rights; cumulative, relative; participating; and optional or other rights, including: o voting rights; o qualifications; o limitations; or o restrictions of the preferred stock. Our board of directors is entitled to authorize the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series with such limitations and restrictions as may be determined in its sole discretion, with no further authorization by security holders required for the issuance thereof. The issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of the holders of common stock. Preferred stock may be issued quickly with terms calculated to discourage, make more difficult, delay or prevent a change in control of the Company or make removal of management more difficult. As a result, the board of directors' ability to issue preferred stock may discourage the potential hostility of an acquirer, possibly resulting in beneficial negotiations. Negotiating with an unfriendly acquirer may result in, among other things, terms more favorable to us and our stockholders. Conversely, the issuance of preferred stock may adversely affect any market price of, and the voting and other rights of the holders of the common stock. We presently have no plans to issue any preferred stock. The ability of our sole officer to control our business may limit or eliminate minority shareholders ability to influence corporate affairs. Our sole officer beneficially owns approximately [89%] of our outstanding common stock. Because of this beneficial stock ownership, he will be in a position to continue to elect our board of directors, decide all matters requiring stockholder approval and determine our policies. His interests may differ from the interests of other shareholders with respect to the issuance of shares, business transactions with or sales to other companies, selection of officers and directors and other business decisions. The minority shareholders would have no way of overriding his decisions. This level of control may also have an adverse impact on the market value of our shares because he may institute or undertake transactions, policies or programs that result in losses, may not take any steps to increase our visibility in the financial community and / or may sell sufficient numbers of shares to significantly decrease our price per share. We do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our common stock. We do not expect to pay cash dividends on our common stock at any time in the foreseeable future. The future payment of dividends directly depends upon our future earnings, capital requirements, financial requirements and other factors that our board of directors will consider. Since we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock, return on your investment, if any, will depend solely on an increase, if any, in the market value of our common stock. We may be exposed to potential risks resulting from new requirements under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to include in our annual report our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We do not have a sufficient number of employees to segregate responsibilities and may be unable to afford increasing our staff or engaging outside consultants or professionals to overcome our lack of employees. 11 Because we are not subject to compliance with rules requiring the adoption of certain corporate governance measures, our stockholders have limited protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rule changes proposed and enacted by the SEC, the New York and American Stock Exchanges and the Nasdaq Stock Market, as a result of Sarbanes-Oxley, require the implementation of various measures relating to corporate governance. These measures are designed to enhance the integrity of corporate management and the securities markets and apply to securities which are listed on those exchanges or the Nasdaq Stock Market. Because we are not presently required to comply with many of the corporate governance provisions and because we chose to avoid incurring the substantial additional costs associated with such compliance any sooner than necessary, we have not yet adopted these measures. Because our sole director is not independent, we do not currently have independent audit or compensation committees. As a result, the director has the ability, among other things, to determine his own level of compensation. Until we comply with such corporate governance measures, regardless of whether such compliance is required, the absence of such standards of corporate governance may leave our stockholders without protections against interested director transactions, conflicts of interest and similar matters and investors may be reluctant to provide us with funds necessary to expand our operations. As a public company, we are required to incur substantial expenses. We are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, which requires, among other things, review, audit, and public reporting of our financial results, business activities, and other matters. SEC regulations, including regulation enacted as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, have also substantially increased the accounting, legal, and other costs related to compliance with an SEC reporting obligations. If we do not have current information about our Company available to market makers, they will not be able to trade our stock. The public company costs of preparing and filing annual and quarterly reports, and other information with the SEC will cause our expenses to be higher than they would be if we were privately-held. These increased costs may be material and may include the hiring of additional employees and/or the retention of additional advisors and professionals. Our failure to comply with the federal securities laws could result in private or governmental legal action against us and/or our officers and directors, which could have a detrimental effect on our business and finances, the value of our stock, and the ability of stockholders to resell their stock. Risks Factors Relating To Our Common Shares We may, in the future, issue additional common shares, which would reduce investors' percent of ownership and may dilute our share value. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of 99,000,000 shares of common stock, of which [2,575,000] shares are issued and outstanding, and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which no shares are issued and outstanding. The future issuance of common stock may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of our common stock held by our then existing shareholders. We may value any common stock issued in the future on an arbitrary basis. The issuance of common stock for future services or acquisitions or other corporate actions may have the effect of diluting the value of the shares held by our investors, and might have an adverse effect on any trading market for our common stock. Our common shares are subject to the "Penny Stock" Rules of the SEC and the trading market in our securities is limited, which makes transactions in our stock cumbersome and may reduce the value of an investment in our stock. The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted Rule 15g-9 which establishes the definition of a "penny stock," for the purposes relevant to us, as any equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share or with an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require: that a broker or dealer approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks; and the broker or dealer receive from the investor a written agreement to the transaction, setting forth the identity and quantity of the penny stock to be purchased. In order to approve a person's account for transactions in penny stocks, the broker or dealer must: obtain financial information and investment experience objectives of the person; and make a reasonable determination that the transactions in penny stocks are suitable for that person and the person has sufficient knowledge and experience in financial matters to be capable of evaluating the risks of transactions in penny stocks. 12 The broker or dealer must also deliver, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Commission relating to the penny stock market, which, in highlight form: sets forth the basis on which the broker or dealer made the suitability determination; and that the broker or dealer received a signed, written agreement from the investor prior to the transaction. Generally, brokers may be less willing to execute transactions in securities subject to the "penny stock" rules. This may make it more difficult for investors to dispose of our Common shares and cause a decline in the market value of our stock. Disclosure also has to be made about the risks of investing in penny stocks in both public offerings and in secondary trading and about the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative, current quotations for the securities and the rights and remedies available to an investor in cases of fraud in penny stock transactions. Finally, monthly statements have to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stocks. Currently, there is no public market for our securities, and there can be no assurances that any public market will ever develop or that our common stock will be quoted for trading and, even if quoted, it is likely to be subject to significant price fluctuations. There has not been any established trading market for our common stock, and there is currently no public market whatsoever for our securities. There can be no assurances as to whether, subsequent to registration with the SEC: any market for our shares will develop; the prices at which our common stock will trade; or the extent to which investor interest in us will lead to the development of an active, liquid trading market. Active trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. In addition, our common stock is unlikely to be followed by any market analysts, and there may be few institutions acting as market makers for our common stock. Either of these factors could adversely affect the liquidity and trading price of our common stock. Until our common stock is fully distributed and an orderly market develops in our common stock, if ever, the price at which it trades is likely to fluctuate significantly. Prices for our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including the depth and liquidity of the market for shares of our common stock, developments affecting our business, including the impact of the factors referred to elsewhere in these Risk Factors, investor perception of the Company and general economic and market conditions. No assurances can be given that an orderly or liquid market will ever develop for the shares of our common stock. If a market develops for our shares, sales of our shares relying upon Rule 144 may depress prices in that market by a material amount. The majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock held by present stockholders are "restricted securities" within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As restricted shares, these shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement, or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemptions from registration under the Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. Effective February 15, 2008, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted changes to Rule 144, which shorten the holding period for sales by non-affiliates to six months (subject to extension under certain circumstances) and remove the volume limitations for such persons. Rule 144 provides in essence that a person who has held restricted securities for a prescribed period may, under certain conditions, sell every three months, in brokerage transactions, a number of shares that does not exceed 1.0% of a company's outstanding common stock. The alternative average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks prior to the sale is not available to our shareholders being that the OTCBB is not an "automated quotation system" and, accordingly, market based volume limitations are not available for securities quoted only over the OTCBB. As a result of the revisions to Rule 144 discussed above, there is no limit on the amount of restricted securities that may be sold by a non-affiliate (i.e., a stockholder who has not been an officer, director or control person for at least 90 consecutive days) after the restricted securities have been held by the owner for a period of one year,. A sale under Rule 144 or under any other exemption from the Act, if available, or pursuant to registration of shares of common stock of present stockholders, may have a depressive effect upon the price of the common stock in any market that may develop. 13 The market for penny stocks has experienced numerous frauds and abuses which could adversely impact investors in our stock. We believe that the market for penny stocks has suffered from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include: Control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; Manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; "Boiler room" practices involving high pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; Excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differentials and markups by selling broker-dealers; and The wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the inevitable collapse of those prices with consequent investor losses. State securities laws may limit secondary trading, which may restrict the states in which and conditions under which you can sell shares. Secondary trading in the Companys common stock will not be possible in any state until the common stock is qualified for sale under the applicable securities laws of the state or there is confirmation that an exemption, such as listing in certain recognized securities manuals, is available for secondary trading in the state. If we fail to register or qualify, or to obtain or verify an exemption for the secondary trading of, the common stock in any particular state, the common stock could not be offered or sold to, or purchased by, a resident of that state. In the event that a significant number of states refuse to permit secondary trading in our common stock, the liquidity for the common stock could be significantly impacted thus causing you to realize a loss on your investment. Because we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless they sell them. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business. We do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Unless we pay dividends, our stockholders will not be able to receive a return on their shares unless the value of such shares appreciates and they sell them. There is no assurance that stockholders will be able to sell shares when desired. We may issue shares of preferred stock in the future that may adversely impact the rights of holders of our common stock. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes us to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of "blank check" preferred stock. Accordingly, our board of directors will have the authority to fix and determine the relative rights and preferences of preferred shares, as well as the authority to issue such shares, without further stockholder approval. As a result, our board of directors could authorize the issuance of a series of preferred stock that would grant to holders preferred rights to our assets upon liquidation, the right to receive dividends before dividends are declared to holders of our common stock, and the right to the redemption of such preferred shares, together with a premium, prior to the redemption of the common stock. To the extent that we do issue such additional shares of preferred stock, your rights as holders of common stock could be impaired thereby, including, without limitation, dilution of your ownership interests in us. In addition, shares of preferred stock could be issued with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult, which may not be in your interest as holders of common stock. Item 2. Properties The Companys offices are located at 1202 Lexington Avenue, Suite 35, New York, New York 10028. We consider our facilities to be well utilized, well maintained, and in good operating condition. Further, we consider the facilities to be suitable for their intended purposes and to have capacities adequate to meet current and projected needs for our operations. Item 3. Legal Proceedings There are no pending legal proceedings to which the Company is a party or in which any director, officer or affiliate of the Company, any owner of record or beneficially of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of the Company, or security holder is a party adverse to the Company or has a material interest adverse to the Company. The Companys property is not the subject of any pending legal proceedings. Item 4. Removed and Reserved. 14 PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is quoted on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (the OTCBB) under the symbol IPSV.OB. As of January 13, 2012, no public market in IP Technology Services, Inc.'s common stock has yet developed and there can be no assurance that a meaningful trading market will subsequently develop. IP Technology Services, Inc. makes no representation about the value of its common stock. Holders As of January 13, 2012, we had approximately 12 record holders of shares of our common stock. Dividends We have not declared or paid dividends on our Common Stock since our formation, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Declaration or payment of dividends, if any, in the future, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our then current financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. There are no contractual restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends. Stock Transfer Agent Our stock transfer agent is Action Stock Transfer Corp., 2469 E. Fort Union Blvd., Suite 214, Salt Lake City, UT 84121 and its telephone number is (801) 274-1088. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During the quarter ended December 31, 2011, we issued 75,000 shares of restricted common stock to a limited number of accredited investors in consideration of gross cash proceeds of $7,500. On January 6, 2012, we issued 98,611 shares of restricted common stock to a limited number of accredited investors in consideration of gross cash proceeds of $9,861. We issued the foregoing securities in reliance on the safe harbor and exemptions from registration provided under Rule 506 of Regulation D and/or Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Regulation S for sales to foreign persons, to a limited number of accredited investors, employees, service providers, or creditors with whom we had prior relationships, without engaging in any general solicitation, and without payment of underwriter discounts or commissions to any person. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The statements contained in all parts of this document that are not historical facts are, or may be deemed to be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to the following: the Company's ability to secure necessary financing; plans for opening one or more restaurant units (including the scope, timing, impact and effects thereof); expected growth; future operating expenses; future margins; fluctuations in interest rates; ability to continue to grow and implement growth, and regarding future growth, cash needs, operations, business plans and financial results and any other statements that are not historical facts. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "may," "plans," "project," and similar expressions are intended to be among the statements that identify forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those relating to costs, delays and difficulties related to the Companys dependence on its ability to attract and retain skilled managers and other personnel; competition within the industry in which the Company operates; the uncertainty of the Company's ability to manage and continue its growth and implement its business strategy; its vulnerability to general economic conditions; accuracy of accounting and other estimates; the Company's future financial and operating results, cash needs and demand for its services; and the Company's ability to maintain and comply with permits and licenses; as well as other risk factors described in this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those projected. 15 Plan of Operation For the year ended September 30, 2011, the Company had no revenues and the Company had a net loss before taxes of $23,373. On March 3, 2009, the Company, through its subsidiary Mural Comm LLC, purchased from BancTec, Inc. for $90,000 U.S. Patent No. 6,341,351 titled Method for Communication and Controlling Transactions Between Unsecured Parties (the Patent ). After several attempts at licensing the Patent, on December 15, 2010, the Company sold the Patent for $60,000. In addition, we continue to look for commercially viable Portfolios to represent. To that end, we will continue to work with our industry contacts, advertise and use our website at www.iptechnologyservices.com to identify additional Portfolios. For each such Portfolio, we analyze the Portfolio, identify relevant markets and/or identify potential acquirers, licensees and/or investors for the Portfolio. In addition, we developed a proprietary software program that we believe will assist us in identifying patent portfolios that have substantial commercial value. We cannot guarantee, however, that we will find additional suitable Portfolios for which will be successful in completing a revenue generating transaction. Generally, we will enter into one or more agreements with our clients depending on the range of services to be provided. If a client is seeking to sell or license a Portfolio, we will typically enter into a Patent Broker Agreement (Broker Agreement) under which we earn a commission for finding a buyer and/or licensee of the Portfolio. Our commission rates are typically one-third (33.33%) of revenues generated through the sale/license of the Portfolio but in certain situations we may negotiate a different rate. Where a client is seeking funding for product development, we may enter into a Patent Finance Agreement (Finance Agreement) under which we earn commission based on the amount of capital we assist in raising. In certain situations, we may consider purchasing all or part of a Portfolio and develop a licensing campaign for the Portfolio to generate revenues for the Company. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2011, the Company had $2,845 in cash. The Companys current cash position may not be sufficient to fund operations over the next twelve months including general overhead expenses such as salaries, corporate legal and accounting fees, office overhead and general working capital. In the event the Company may require additional cash to fund operations or purchase a Portfolio, we may have to borrow money from shareholders or issue debt or equity or enter into a strategic arrangement with a third party. Our officer will fund any expenses which arise until such time as the Company raises sufficient funds. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us. We currently have no agreements, arrangements or understandings with any person to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit or any other sources. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements