Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation sections, among others. Other risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently deem immaterial, also may become important factors that affect us. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. The discussion of our risk factors should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and notes thereto included herein. Based on our recurring losses during our development stage and inability to implement our business plan, our auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion as to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We are a development stage company and since inception, have suffered losses from development stage activities to date, and are in need of additional capital. We have experienced net losses in each fiscal quarter since our inception and as of September 30, 2012, have an accumulated deficit of $120,422. As a result of these factors, our independent auditors have included an explanatory paragraph in their opinion for the year ended September 30, 2012 as to the substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As such, we may be required to cease operations in which case you could lose your entire investment. Our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which contemplate that we will continue to operate as a going concern. Our financial statements do not contain any adjustments that might result if we are unable to continue as a going concern. We have no operations, will not generate any revenue unless we complete a business combination with an operating company, and need additional capital to fund our activities. We currently have no operations and expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future. Unless we complete a business combination with an operating company, we will not generate any revenues in the future and we will continue to incur expenses related to identifying and acquiring an operating company and compliance with our reporting obligations under applicable federal securities laws. We will need to raise additional funds, and such funds may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we cannot raise funds on acceptable terms, we may not be able to continue to execute our plan to acquire an operating company and in the extreme case, liquidate the Company. We may not be able to acquire an operating company and if we complete such an acquisition, we expect that we will need to raise additional capital. Our sole business objective is to acquire an operating company. As of the date of this report, we have identified and evaluated potential acquisition targets, engaged in discussions and due diligence activities regarding the acquisition of an operating company, and entered into an agreement to acquire an operating company which was subsequently terminated. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify a suitable operating company to acquire or complete such an acquisition. In the event that we complete such an acquisition, we expect that we will need to raise substantial additional capital. We intend to rely on external sources of financing to meet any capital requirements and to obtain such funding through the debt and equity markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain additional funding when it is required or that it will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we fail to obtain such necessary funding, any such acquisition may not be successful. 4 Our board of directors has sole discretion to identify and evaluate acquisition candidates and complete acquisitions without approval of our stockholders. We have not developed any specific acquisition guidelines and we are not obligated to follow any particular operating, financial, geographic or other criteria in evaluating candidates for potential acquisitions or business combinations. We will target companies that we believe will provide the best potential long-term financial return for our stockholders and we will determine the purchase price and other terms and conditions of acquisitions without review or approval of our stockholders. Accordingly, our stockholders will not have the opportunity to evaluate the relevant economic, financial and other information that our board of directors will use and consider in deciding whether or not to enter into a particular transaction. There is intense competition for private companies suitable for a merger transaction of the type contemplated by our board of directors. There is currently a very competitive market for business opportunities which could reduce the likelihood of consummating a successful business combination. We anticipate we will be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with, joint ventures with, and acquisitions of small private entities. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including small public companies, venture capital firms, and special purpose acquisition companies, or SPACs, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies that may be desirable target candidates for us. We have significantly less financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than most of these entities. As result, we may be unable to effectively compete with such entities in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. These competitive factors may reduce the likelihood of our identifying and consummating a successful business combination. Any potential acquisition or merger with a foreign company may subject us to additional risks. If we enter into a business combination with a foreign company, we will be subject to risks inherent in business operations outside of the United States. These risks include, without limitation, language differences, unfavorable tax policies, tariffs, regulatory hurdles, currency fluctuations, trade embargoes, political instability, risks related to shipment of raw materials and finished goods across national borders, and cultural differences. Foreign economies may differ favorably or unfavorably from the United States economy in growth of gross national product, rate of inflation, market development, rate of savings, and capital investment, resource self-sufficiency and balance of payments positions, and in other respects. Risks Related to Our Stock There is a very limited market for our common stock. There is no active trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is not eligible for trading on any national or regional securities exchange. Our common stock is eligible for trading on the OTCQB. This market tends to be substantially less liquid than national and regional securities exchanges. To date, there has been very limited trading of our common stock. We cannot provide you with any assurance that an active trading market for our common stock will develop, or if such a market develops, that it will be sustained. Applicable SEC Rules governing the trading of penny stocks limits the trading and liquidity of our common stock which may affect the trading price of our common stock. Our common stock currently trades on the OTCQB. Since our common stock continues to trade below $5.00 per share, our common stock is considered a penny stock and is subject to SEC rules and regulations that impose limitations upon the manner in which our shares can be publicly traded. These regulations require the delivery, prior to any transaction involving a penny stock, of a disclosure document explaining the penny stock market and the associated risks. Under these regulations, brokers who recommend penny stocks to persons other than established customers or certain accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. These regulations may have the effect of limiting the trading activity of our common stock and reducing the liquidity of an investment in our common stock. 5 We intend to raise additional capital in the future, and such additional capital may be dilutive to stockholders or impose operational restrictions. We intend to raise additional capital in the future to help fund our operations through sales of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock, as well as issuances of debt. Additional convertible debt or equity financing may be dilutive to our stockholders and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. If additional capital is raised through the issuance of shares of our common stock or securities convertible into shares of our common stock, the percentage ownership of our stockholders will be reduced. These stockholders may experience additional dilution in net book value per share and any additional equity securities may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock. The trading price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile. The trading price of our shares may from time to time fluctuate widely. The trading price may be affected by a number of factors including events described in the risk factors set forth in this report as well as our operating results, financial condition, announcements regarding our business, general economic conditions and other events or factors. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the price of many small capitalization companies and that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Market fluctuations such as these may seriously harm the market price of our common stock. Further, securities class action suits have been filed against companies following periods of market volatility in the price of their securities. If such an action is instituted against us, we may incur substantial costs and a diversion of management attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid a dividend on our common stock. Accordingly, we do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future and investors seeking dividend income should not purchase our common stock. We are not subject to certain of the corporate governance provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Since our common stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, we are not subject to certain of the corporate governance requirements established by the national securities exchanges pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. These include rules relating to independent directors, director nomination, audit and compensation committees, retention of audit committee financial expert and the adoption of a code of ethics. Unless we voluntarily elect to fully comply with those obligations, which we have not to date, the protections that these corporate governance provisions were enacted to provide will not exist with respect to us. While we may make an application to have our securities listed for trading on a national securities exchange, which would require us to fully comply with those obligations, we cannot assure you that we will make such application, that we would be able to satisfy applicable listing standards, or if we did satisfy such standards, that we would be successful in such application. We are required to comply with Section 404a of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and if we fail to comply in a timely manner, our business could be harmed and our stock price could decline. Rules adopted by the SEC pursuant to Section 404a of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 require annual assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting, Starting with our fiscal year ended September 30, 2008, we became subject to the requirements of Section 404a. Any failure to maintain adequate controls could result in delays or inaccuracies in reporting financial information or non-compliance with SEC reporting and other regulatory requirements, any of which could adversely affect our business and stock price. Item 2. Properties The Companys offices are located at 1202 Lexington Avenue, Suite 355, New York, New York 10028. We consider our facilities to be well utilized, well maintained, and in good operating condition. Further, we consider the facilities to be suitable for their intended purposes and to have capacities adequate to meet current and projected needs for our operations. 6 Item 3. Legal Proceedings There are no pending legal proceedings to which the Company is a party or in which any director, officer or affiliate of the Company, any owner of record or beneficially of more than 5% of any class of voting securities of the Company, or security holder is a party adverse to the Company or has a material interest adverse to the Company. The Companys property is not the subject of any pending legal proceedings. Item 4. Removed and Reserved. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is quoted on the OTCQB under the symbol CRWD. As of January 15, 2013, no public market in our common stock has yet developed and there can be no assurance that a meaningful trading market will subsequently develop. Holders As of January 15, 2013, we had approximately 22 record holders of shares of our common stock. Dividends We have not declared or paid dividends on our Common Stock since our formation, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. Declaration or payment of dividends, if any, in the future, will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on our then current financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors deemed relevant by the board of directors. There are no contractual restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends. Stock Transfer Agent Our stock transfer agent is VStock Transfer, LLC, 77 Spruce Street, Suite 201, Cedarhurst, New York 11516 and its telephone number is (212) 828-8436. Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities On August 6, 2012, we entered into subscription agreements with several accredited investors, pursuant to which it issued and sold an aggregate of 1,607,950 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.02 per share for aggregate proceeds of $32,159. We issued the foregoing securities in reliance on the safe harbor and exemptions from registration provided under Rule 506 of Regulation D and/or Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Regulation S for sales to foreign persons, to a limited number of accredited investors, employees, service providers, or creditors with whom we had prior relationships, without engaging in any general solicitation, and without payment of underwriter discounts or commissions to any person. In May 2012, we entered into subscription agreements with certain existing stockholders of the Company pursuant to which we issued and sold an aggregate of 108,080 shares of the Companys common stock for gross proceeds of $10,808. The securities were issued in a private placement transaction to a limited number of accredited investors in reliance upon an exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, which exempts transactions by an issuer not involving a public offering. During the period ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued and sold an aggregate of 98,611 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.10 per shared to four accredited investors for aggregate proceeds of $9,861. 7 We issued the forgoing securities in reliance on the safe harbor provided under Rule 506 of Regulation D and/or Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 as amended, without payment of commissions to any person. Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The statements contained in all parts of this document that are not historical facts are, or may be deemed to be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to the following: the Company's ability to secure necessary financing; plans for opening one or more restaurant units (including the scope, timing, impact and effects thereof); expected growth; future operating expenses; future margins; fluctuations in interest rates; ability to continue to grow and implement growth, and regarding future growth, cash needs, operations, business plans and financial results and any other statements that are not historical facts. When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "may," "plans," "project," and similar expressions are intended to be among the statements that identify forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those relating to costs, delays and difficulties related to the Companys dependence on its ability to attract and retain skilled managers and other personnel; competition within the industry in which the Company operates; the uncertainty of the Company's ability to manage and continue its growth and implement its business strategy; its vulnerability to general economic conditions; accuracy of accounting and other estimates; the Company's future financial and operating results, cash needs and demand for its services; and the Company's ability to maintain and comply with permits and licenses; as well as other risk factors described in this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those projected. Overview We were incorporated pursuant to the laws of the State of Delaware on June 6, 2007 for the purpose of providing services to individual inventors and small companies to assist them in generating revenues through the sale, license and/or commercialization of their intellectual property portfolios. Having been unable to execute our business plan, we have exited this business and are, therefore, considered a shell company under applicable rules of the SEC, promulgated under the Exchange Act. In that regard, we are actively seeking to complete a business combination with an operating company. We have limited cash resources, have incurred losses since inception, and have been unable to execute our business plan. We will need to raise funds during the next twelve months to execute our business plan to acquire an operating company. In order to continue operations, we must continue to raise the capital necessary to fund our activities and our long-term viability and growth will ultimately depend upon acquiring a successful operating company, as to which there can be no assurance. Plan to Acquire an Operating Company Our current business plan consists solely of identifying and acquiring a suitable operating company and compliance with our reporting obligations under federal securities laws. On August 31, 2012, we entered into an Agreement of Merger and Plan of Reorganization (the Merger Agreement) with click2cause.com Inc., a privately held Nevada corporation (C2C) and C2C Acquisition Corp., a Nevada corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company (Acquisition Sub). Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, C2C was to merge with and into Acquisition Sub and thereafter become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. On December 10, 2012, the Company notified C2C that it was terminating the Merger Agreement pursuant to Section 9.01(e) of the Merger Agreement as the closing had not occurred on or prior to October 15, 2012. As of the date of this report, our current focus is on the crowdfunding industry, however, we are not restricting our search for a target company to any specific business, industry or geographical location. We anticipate that the selection of a business combination will be complex and subject to substantial risk. Based on general economic conditions, technological advances being made in some industries and shortages of available capital, we believe that there are numerous firms seeking access to the capital markets and/or the perceived benefits of becoming a publicly traded corporation. Such perceived benefits include, among other things, facilitating or improving the terms on which additional equity financing may be obtained, providing liquidity for the principals of and investors in a business, creating a means for providing incentive stock options or similar benefits to incentivize key employees, and offering greater flexibility in structuring acquisitions, joint ventures and the like through the issuance of stock. Potentially available business combinations may occur in many different industries and at various stages of development, all of which will make the task of comparative investigation and analysis of such business opportunities extremely difficult and complex. 8 Unless we acquire an operating company, we do not expect to retain any additional personnel, incur any capital expenditures, or incur any research and development expenses. Our ability to generate future revenue and earnings is dependent on identifying and acquiring an operating company. Although we have evaluated potential acquisition targets and engaged in general discussions and due diligence activities regarding the acquisition of an operating company, we have not entered into any agreement to acquire an operating company. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify an acceptable operating company, complete an acquisition, or that any business we acquire will generate profits or increase the our value. Results of Operations We currently have no operations. Our results of operations consists solely of operating expenses. We incurred a net loss of $53,937 for the year ended September 30, 2012 as compared to a net loss of $23,373 for the year ended September 30, 2011. We do not generate any revenue and do not expect to generate any future revenue unless we acquire an operating company. Liquidity and Capital Resources At September 30, 2012, we had a working capital deficit of $3,823. Since inception, we have funded our operations through public and private offerings of our common stock. On August 6, 2012, we entered into subscription agreements with several accredited investors, pursuant to which it issued and sold an aggregate of 1,607,950 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.02 per share for aggregate proceeds of $32,159. In May 2012, we entered into subscription agreements with certain existing stockholders of the Company pursuant to which we issued and sold an aggregate of 108,080 shares of the Companys common stock for gross proceeds of $10,808. During the period ended December 31, 2011, the Company issued and sold an aggregate of 98,611 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.10 per shared to four accredited investors for aggregate proceeds of $9,861.