ITEM 2 - MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Information set forth herein contains "forward-looking statements" which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may, should" or "anticipates" or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. No assurance can be given that the future results covered by the forward-looking statements will be achieved. The Company cautions readers that important factors may affect the Companys actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. These factors include the Companys lack of historically profitable operations, dependence on key personnel, the success of the Companys business, ability to manage anticipated growth and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and/or other public communications. Plan of Operation Our original focus was to provide a range of services to assist inventors in leveraging their patents and related intellectual property and formulate strategies to maximize revenue and profits created by their intellectual property portfolios. The services that we provided included an initial analysis of a portfolio to identify its strengths and weaknesses and a determination of the value of the portfolio. Our initial business model focused on the generation of revenue by receiving a portion of the economic value realized from our client portfolios. On March 3, 2009, the Company, through its subsidiary Mural Comm LLC, purchased from BancTec, Inc. for $90,000 U.S. Patent No. 6,341,351 titled Method for Communication and Controlling Transactions Between Unsecured Parties (the Patent ). After several attempts at licensing the Patent, on December 15, 2010, the Company sold the Patent for $60,000. We do not currently have agreements to represent any intellectual property portfolios nor do we own any intellectual property or any other assets other than cash. We are currently considered a shell company as defined under Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Our current focus is to acquire, through a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization, exchangeable share transaction or other similar business transaction, one or more operating business or assets that we have not yet identified. Although we have engaged in discussions with several target businesses, we do not have any specific merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization, exchangeable share transaction or other similar business transaction under consideration. We can provide no assurance that a suitable target business will be identified or if one is identified, if we will be successful in negotiating the terms of an acquisition transaction that are in the best interests of the Company. As of June 30, 2012, the Company had $1,339 in cash. The Companys current cash position is not sufficient to fund operations over the next twelve months including general overhead expenses such as salaries, corporate legal and accounting fees, office overhead and general working capital. In the event the Company may require additional cash to fund operations or purchase a Portfolio, we may have to borrow money from shareholders or issue debt or equity or enter into a strategic arrangement with a third party. Our officer will fund any expenses which arise until such time as the Company raises sufficient funds. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us. We currently have no agreements, arrangements or understandings with any person to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit or any other sources. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the financial statements. Financial Reporting Release No. 60 requires all companies to include a discussion of critical accounting policies or methods used in the preparation of financial statements. There are no critical policies or decisions that rely on judgments that are based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made. 14 Seasonality To date, we have not noted any significant seasonal impacts. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.