ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Forward-Looking Statements The statements contained in all parts of this document that are not historical facts are, or may be deemed to be, "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those relating to the following: the Company's ability to secure necessary financing; plans for opening one or more restaurant units (including the scope, timing, impact and effects thereof); expected growth; future operating expenses; future margins; fluctuations in interest rates; ability to continue to grow and implement growth, and regarding future growth, cash needs, operations, business plans and financial results and any other statements that are not historical facts. 18 When used in this document, the words "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "may," "plans," "project," and similar expressions are intended to be among the statements that identify forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those relating to costs, delays and difficulties related to the Companys dependence on its ability to attract and retain skilled managers and other personnel; the intense competition within the restaurant industry; the uncertainty of the Company's ability to manage and continue its growth and implement its business strategy; its vulnerability to general economic conditions; accuracy of accounting and other estimates; the Company's future financial and operating results, cash needs and demand for its s ervices; and the Company's ability to maintain and comply with permits and licenses; as well as other risk factors described in this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those projected. Plan of Operation For the year ended September 30, 2010, the Company had no revenues and the Company had a net loss before taxes of $22,484. On March 3, 2009, the Company, through its subsidiary Mural Comm LLC, purchased from BancTec, Inc. for $90,000 U.S. Patent No. 6,341,351 titled Method for Communication and Controlling Transactions Between Unsecured Parties (the Patent ). After several attempts at licensing the Patent, on December 15, 2010, the Company sold the Patent for $60,000. In addition, we continue to look for commercially viable Portfolios to represent. To that end, we will continue to work with our industry contacts, advertise and use our website at www.iptechnologyservices.com to identify additional Portfolios. For each such Portfolio, we analyze the Portfolio, identify relevant markets and/or identify potential acquirers, licensees and/or investors for the Portfolio. In addition, we developed a proprietary software program that we believe will assist us in identifying patent portfolios that have substantial commercial value. We cannot guarantee, however, that we will find additional suitable Portfolios for which will be successful in completing a revenue generating transaction. Generally, we will enter into one or more agreements with our clients depending on the range of services to be provided. If a client is seeking to sell or license a Portfolio, we will typically enter into a Patent Broker Agreement (Broker Agreement) under which we earn a commission for finding a buyer and/or licensee of the Portfolio. Our commission rates are typically one-third (33.33%) of revenues generated through the sale/license of the Portfolio but in certain situations we may negotiate a different rate. Where a client is seeking funding for product development, we may enter into a Patent Finance Agreement (Finance Agreement) under which we earn commission based on the amount of capital we assist in raising. In certain situations, we may consider purchasing all or part of a Portfolio and develop a licensing campaign for the Portfolio to generate revenues for the Company. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2010, the Company had $3,943 in cash. On December 15, 2010, the Company received $60,000 in connection with the sale of the Patent. The Companys current cash position may not be sufficient to fund operations over the next twelve months including general overhead expenses such as salaries, corporate legal and accounting fees, office overhead and general working capital. In the event the Company may require additional cash to fund operations or purchase a Portfolio, we may have to borrow money from shareholders or issue debt or equity or enter into a strategic arrangement with a third party. Our officer will fund any expenses which arise until such time as the Company raises sufficient funds. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us. We currently have no agreements, arrangements or understandings with any person to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit or any other sources. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements