ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Information set forth herein contains "forward-looking statements" which can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as "believes," "expects," "may, should" or "anticipates" or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology, or by discussions of strategy. No assurance can be given that the future results covered by the forward-looking statements will be achieved. The Company cautions readers that important factors may affect the Companys actual results and could cause such results to differ materially from forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of the Company. These factors include the Companys lack of historically profitable operations, dependence on key personnel, the success of the Companys business, ability to manage anticipated growth and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and/or other public communications. Plan of Operation The Company earned no revenues in the quarter ended June 30, 2010. On March 3, 2009, the Company, through its subsidiary Mural Comm LLC, purchased from BancTec, Inc. for $90,000 U.S. Patent No. 6,341,351 titled Method for Communication and Controlling Transactions Between Unsecured Parties (the Patent ). The Company holds a seventy-five percent interest in Mural Comm LLC and the remaining twenty-five percent interest is held by John Torkelson, an inventor of the Patent. The Company intends on generating revenues from the license and/or sale of the Patent. In addition, we continue to look for commercially viable Portfolios to represent. To that end, we will continue to work with our industry contacts, advertise and use our website at www.iptechnologyservices.com to identify additional Portfolios. For each such Portfolio, we analyze the Portfolio, identify relevant markets and/or identify potential acquirers, licensees and/or investors for the Portfolio. In addition, we developed a proprietary software program that we believe will assist us in identifying patent portfolios that have substantial commercial value. We cannot guarantee, however, that we will find additional suitable Portfolios for which will be successful in completing a revenue generating transaction. Generally, we will enter into one or more agreements with our clients depending on the range of services to be provided. If a client is seeking to sell or license a Portfolio, we will typically enter into a Patent Broker Agreement (Broker Agreement) under which we earn a commission for finding a buyer and/or licensee of the Portfolio. Our commission rates are typically one-third (33.33%) of revenues generated through the sale/license of the Portfolio but in certain situations we may negotiate a different rate. Where a client is seeking funding for product development, we may enter into a Patent Finance Agreement (Finance Agreement) under which we earn commission based on the amount of capital we assist in raising. In certain situations, we may consider purchasing all or part of a Portfolio and develop a licensing campaign for the Portfolio to generate revenues for the Company. As June 30, 2010, the Company had $9,627 in cash. The Companys current cash position may not be sufficient to fund operations over the next twelve months including general overhead expenses such as salaries, corporate legal and accounting fees, office overhead and general working capital. In the event the Company may require additional cash to fund operations or purchase a Portfolio, we may have to borrow money from shareholders or issue debt or equity or enter into a strategic arrangement with a third party. Our officer will fund any expenses which arise until such time as the Company raises sufficient funds. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us. We currently have no agreements, arrangements or understandings with any person to obtain funds through bank loans, lines of credit or any other sources. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the financial statements. Financial Reporting Release No. 60 requires all companies to include a discussion of critical accounting policies or methods used in the preparation of financial statements. There are no critical policies or decisions that rely on judgments that are based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made. 15 Seasonality To date, we have not noted any significant seasonal impacts. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements.