Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q including, without limitation, statements under this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. When used in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, words such as anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, intend and similar expressions, as they relate to us or the Companys management, identify forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs of management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, the Companys management. Actual results could differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to us or persons acting on the Companys behalf are qualified in their entirety by this paragraph. Overview We are a former blank check company incorporated on May 9, 2019 under the name Software Acquisition Group Inc. as a Delaware corporation and formed for the purpose of effecting a merger, capital stock exchange, asset acquisition, stock purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses. We completed our Initial Public Offering on November 22, 2019 and completed the Business Combination (as defined below) on October 14, 2020. Recent Developments On October 14, 2020, we consummated the Business Combination with Merger Sub, the Majority Stockholder and Legacy CuriosityStream pursuant to the Merger Agreement. Upon the consummation of the Closing, Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy CuriosityStream, with Legacy CuriosityStream surviving such merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, the Company changed its name from Software Acquisition Group Inc. to CuriosityStream Inc. See Note 9 to Item 1 above for a description of the Merger Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby. Results of Operations Our entire activity from inception up to November 22, 2019 was in preparation for our Initial Public Offering. From the consummation of our Initial Public Offering through September 30, 2020, our activity was been limited to the evaluation of business combination candidates and consummating the acquisition of Legacy CuriosityStream. For the three months ended September 30, 2020, we had a net loss of $453,091, which consists of operating costs of $494,939, offset by interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $14,074 and an income tax benefit of $27,774. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, we had net loss of $348,607, which consists of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $559,667, offset by operating costs of $908,274. For the three months ended September 30, 2019 and the period from May 9, 2019 (inception) through September 30, 2019, we had net loss of $801 and $3,012, respectively, which consists of formation and operating costs. 13 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2020, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $150,071,746 (including approximately $572,000 of interest income earned from investments in a money market fund that invests primarily in U.S. treasury bills with a maturity of 180 days or less). Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through September 30, 2020, we withdrew $207,831 of interest earned on the Trust Account to pay for our franchise taxes. For the nine months ended September 30, 2020, cash used in operating activities was $787,764. Net loss of $348,607 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $559,667. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $120,510 of cash from operating activities. We used substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account to complete the Business Combination. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2020. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement to pay an affiliate of the Sponsor a monthly fee of $10,000 for office space, utilities and secretarial and administrative support to the Company. We began incurring these fees on November 19, 2019 and will continue to incur these fees monthly until the earlier of the completion of the Business Combination and the Companys liquidation. In addition, we agreed to pay the underwriters a deferred fee of three and half percent (3.50%) of the gross proceeds of the Initial Public Offering, or $5,232,500. The deferred fee was paid in cash upon the closing of the Merger from the amounts held in the Trust Account, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that features redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, common stock subject to possible redemption is presented at redemption value as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our condensed consolidated balance sheets. 14 Net Loss Per Common Share We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Common stock subject to possible redemption which is not currently redeemable and is not redeemable at fair value, has been excluded from the calculation of basic net loss per common share since such shares, if redeemed, only participate in their pro rata share of the Trust Account earnings. Our net income is adjusted for the portion of income that is attributable to common stock subject to possible redemption, as these shares only participate in the earnings of the Trust Account and not our income or losses. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements.