Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more detailed discussion of our product and service lines and channels through which we generate revenue. COMPETITION We compete for the time and attention of our users across different forms of media, including traditional broadcast, cable, satellite and internet-delivered video, other providers of SVOD services (e.g., Amazon Prime Video, Hulu, Netflix), other providers of in-home and mobile entertainment such as radio, music streaming services, and social media and networking websites. Many consumers maintain simultaneous relationships with multiple in-home entertainment providers and can easily shift spending from one provider to another. We compete with other content providers to attract, engage, and retain users based on several factors, including: the user experience, content range and quality, ease of use of our platform, price, accessibility, perceptions of advertising load, brand awareness and reputation. Many of our competitors enjoy competitive advantages such as greater brand recognition, legacy operating histories and larger marketing and content budgets, as well as greater financial, technical, human and other resources. SEASONALITY Our overall revenue does not exhibit a consistent seasonal pattern. Our DTC membership growth may reflect variations when consumers buy internet-connected screens and when they tend to increase their viewing, although these trends are generally immaterial for our business. In most years, the first quarter, on a relative percentage basis, has represented our greatest streaming membership growth. In addition, our membership growth can be impacted by our content release schedule and changes to pricing. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our success depends upon our ability to protect our technologies and intellectual property. To accomplish this, we rely on a combination of intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, copyrights and trademarks, as well as contractual restrictions. We have confidentiality and proprietary rights arrangements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and we control access to, and distribution of, our proprietary information. Our registered trademarks in the U.S. include Curiosity, CuriosityStream among others. 5 Table of Contents We are the registrant of the internet domain name for our website, www.curiositystream.com, as well as others. We own rights to proprietary processes and trade secrets, including those underlying the CuriosityStream service. GOVERNMENT REGULATION As a company conducting business on the internet, we are subject to several foreign and domestic laws and regulations relating to information and network security, data protection, privacy, and governmental access to data, among other things. Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and could be interpreted, updated, or new laws passed in ways that could harm our business. In the area of information and network security and data protection, the laws in the U.S., the European Union (the EU), and other jurisdictions globally can require specified actions to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of networks and data. Additionally, laws in many U.S. states require companies to implement specific information security controls to protect certain types of personally identifiable information. Likewise, U.S. states, the EU, China, and other jurisdictions have laws in place requiring companies to notify users, regulators, and sometimes law enforcement if there is a security breach that compromises certain categories of information, including personal information and personally identifiable information. We are also subject to U.S. federal and state, EU and other foreign laws regarding privacy, the collection of data of minors, and the privacy of customer data. Our privacy policy and terms of use describe our practices concerning the use, transmission and disclosure of customer information and are posted on our website. Any failure to comply with our posted privacy policy or privacy-related laws, obligations, or regulations globally could result in proceedings against us by governmental authorities, individuals, or others. Further, any failure by us to adequately protect the privacy or security of our customers information could result in a loss of confidence in our service among existing and potential customers, and ultimately, in a loss of customers and advertisers. PRIVACY POLICY We collect and use certain types of information from our customers in accordance with the privacy policy that is posted on our website. We collect personally identifiable information directly from customers when they register to use our service and sign up to receive email newsletters. We may also obtain information about our customers from other customers and third parties. Our policy is to use the collected information to customize and personalize advertising and content for customers and to enhance the customer experience when using our service. We also use automated data collection technology, such as tracking cookies, to collect online usage information to help us track customer interactions with our service. Third-party advertisers and service partners may also use tracking technologies to collect information regarding use of our platforms. We have implemented commercially reasonable physical and electronic security measures to protect against the loss, misuse, and alteration of personally identifiable information. No security measures are perfect or impenetrable, and we may be unable to anticipate or prevent unauthorized access to our customers personally identifiable information. HUMAN CAPITAL We employed approximately 57 and 78 full-time employees on average, during 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, we employed 48 full-time employees, all of whom were located in the U.S. During 2023, we eliminated 20 positions, including 13 positions eliminated as part of a December 2023 restructuring. Our eliminated roles during the year were primarily in the areas of technology, operations and programming. We have one location, a corporate office, plus filming studio and edit suites, in Silver Spring, Maryland (the Office). Our human capital resources objectives include, as applicable, identifying, recruiting, retaining, incentivizing and integrating our existing and new employees, advisors and consultants. Our ability to attract, retain and improve the effectiveness of our employees is a critical factor for executing our growth strategy. We strive to recruit the best people for the job regardless of race, sexual orientation, gender, religion, or other factors. 6 Table of Contents We are committed to diversity and inclusion as well as equitable pay within our workforce. To further some of these initiatives, following our Business Combination, we retained Willis Towers Watson, a leading global advisory firm, to review our compensation structure. Our compensation program is designed to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified employees and executives and is comprised of a mix of competitive base salary, bonus and equity compensation awards, as well as other employee benefits. Almost all current employees have received equity grants with vesting conditions designed to facilitate the retention of personnel and the opportunity to benefit financially from our potential future growth and profitability. Our 401(k) retirement plan contributions include a 100% match of contributions for the first 3% of the employees base salary and a 50% match of contributions between 3% and 5% of the employees base salary. Our human resources strategy is overseen by our executive team, which aims to provide regular updates to our Board. Our employees are not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS If any of the following events occur, our business, financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. In that event, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S BUSINESS If our efforts to attract and retain users are not successful, our business will be adversely affected. We have experienced significant user growth over the past several years. Our ability to continue to attract users will depend in part on our ability to effectively market our service, consistently provide our users with compelling content choices that keep our users engaged with our service, as well as a quality experience for selecting and viewing factual entertainment. Furthermore, the relative service levels, content offerings, pricing and related features of competitors to our service may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain users. Competitors include other entertainment video providers, such as MVPDs and SVOD services. Users may cancel our service for many reasons, including: a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, the need to cut household expenses, selection of content is unsatisfactory, competitive services provide a better value or experience and customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. Membership may also be impacted by our business relationships with our MVPDs, vMVPDs or other affiliates. For example, when one of our agreements with a Bundled Distribution partner was terminated in the third quarter of 2022, we experienced a decline in subscribers as a result of such termination.. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, may also adversely impact our ability to attract and retain users. We must continually add new users both to replace cancelled users and to grow our business beyond our current user base. If we do not grow as expected, we may not be able to adjust our expenditures or increase our per-user revenues, including by adjusting membership pricing, commensurate with the lowered growth rate, such that our margins, liquidity and results of operations may be adversely impacted, and our ability to operate at a net-loss may be strained. If we are unable to successfully compete with current and new competitors in providing compelling content, retaining our existing users and attracting new users, our business will be adversely affected. Further, if excessive numbers of users cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these users with new users. If we do not continuously provide value to our users, including making improvements to our service in a manner that is favorably received by them, our revenue, results of operations and business will be adversely affected. If consumers do not perceive our service offering to be of value, including if we introduce new or adjust existing features, adjust pricing or service offerings or change the mix of or our investment into our content in a manner that is not favorably received by them, we may not be able to attract and retain users, and accordingly, our revenue, including revenue per paying membership, and result of operations may be adversely affected. For example, in 2022, in an attempt to expand our service offerings, we introduced a new, free ad-supported streaming channel on the LG channel platform, Curiosity Now, and our Smart Bundle plan. In addition, we may, from time to time, adjust our membership pricing, our membership plans, or our pricing model itself. These and other adjustments we have made or may make in the future may not be well-received by consumers and could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain members, revenues per paying membership, revenue and our 7 Table of Contents results of operations. In addition, we believe that many of our users rejoin our service or originate from word-of-mouth advertising from existing users. If our efforts to satisfy our existing users or adjustments to our service are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain users, and as a result, our ability to maintain and/or grow our business will be adversely affected. We may be unable to realize intended efficiencies and benefits from our ongoing cost-savings initiatives, which may adversely affect our profitability, financial condition or our business. To operate more efficiently and control our expenditures, we have undertaken cost-savings initiatives, which have included workforce reductions and other cost reduction initiatives. We also periodically choose to discontinue certain operations and business partnerships that we no longer believe are additive or complementary to our business or strategic direction. These initiatives are intended to reduce operating costs [and to strengthen focus on our core business]. If we do not successfully manage our current cost-savings activities, our expected efficiencies, benefits and cost savings might be delayed or not realized, and our operations and business could be disrupted. In addition, we may incur additional impairment charges related to fixed assets, goodwill and other intangibles, which may be material and may exceed our estimates. Furthermore, a disruption to our operations or business may cause employee morale and productivity to suffer and may result in unwanted employee attrition. Such disruptions require substantial management time and attention and may divert management from other important work or result in a failure to meet operational targets. Moreover, we could make changes to, or experience delays in executing, any cost-savings initiatives, any of which could cause further disruption and additional unanticipated expense. We have a history of net losses, and we anticipate that we will experience net losses for the foreseeable future. Since our inception, we have incurred significant operating losses, and as of December 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $290.0 million. Given the significant operating and capital expenditures associated with our business plan, we anticipate continuing to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. If we do achieve profitability, we cannot be certain that we will be able to sustain or increase such profitability. We incurred a net loss of $48.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, and we have not generated positive cash flow from operations since our inception. We may not be able to operate at a net loss indefinitely, and we cannot be certain that we will be able to generate positive cash flow from operations in the future. To achieve and sustain profitability, we must accomplish numerous objectives, including broadening and stabilizing our sources of revenue, increasing the number of paying subscribers to our service and increasing the price subscribers pay to access our service. Accomplishing these objectives will require significant rationalization of costs. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve these objectives. Our operating results are expected to be difficult to predict based on a number of factors that also may affect our long-term performance. We expect our operating results to fluctuate significantly in the future based on a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control and difficult to predict. As a result, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be a good indicator of our future or long-term performance. The following factors may affect us from period-to-period and may affect our long-term performance: our ability to maintain and develop new and existing revenue-generating relationships; our ability to improve or maintain gross margins in our business; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and governance; our ability to significantly increase our subscriber base and retain customers; our ability to enforce our contracts and collect receivables from third parties; our ability to develop, acquire and maintain an adequate breadth and depth of content via original productions, co-productions, commissions and/or licenses; changes by our competitors to their product and service offerings; increased competition; 8 Table of Contents our ability to detect and comply with data collection and privacy regulation and customer questions related thereto in every jurisdiction in which we operate; changes in promotional support or other aspects of our relationships with our partners through which we make our service available, including the MVPDs and/or the vMVPDs, through which we offer our content; our ability to effectively manage the development of new business segments and markets, and determine appropriate contract and licensing terms; our ability to maintain and develop new and existing marketing relationships; our ability to maintain, upgrade and develop our website, our applications through which we offer our service on our customers devices and our internal computer systems; fluctuations in the use of the internet for the purchase of consumer goods and services such as those we offer; technical difficulties, system downtime or internet disruptions; our ability to attract new and qualified personnel in a timely and effective manner and retain existing personnel; conflicts of interest involving our founder and principal stockholder, John Hendricks; our ability to attract and retain sponsors and prove that our sponsorship offerings are effective enough to justify a pricing structure that is profitable for us; the success of our content licensing to other media companies; our ability to successfully manage the integration of operations and technology resulting from possible future acquisitions; governmental regulation and taxation policies; and general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to the internet, online commerce and the media industry. If we are not able to manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. We have expanded significantly since we launched our subscription service in March 2015. We anticipate that further expansion of our operations will be required to achieve significant growth in our products, lines of business and user base and to take advantage of favorable market opportunities. Any future expansion will likely place significant demands on our managerial, operational, administrative and financial resources. If we are unable to respond effectively to new or increased demands that arise because of our growth, or, if in responding, our management is materially distracted from our current operations, our business may be adversely affected. In addition, if we do not have sufficient breadth and depth of content necessary to satisfy increased demand arising from growth in our user base, our user satisfaction may be adversely affected. We have expanded our operations internationally, seeking to effectively and reliably handle anticipated growth in both users and features related to our service. As our offerings evolve, we are managing and adjusting our business to address varied content offerings, consumer customs and practices, different technology infrastructure, different markets for factual video content, as well as differing legal and regulatory environments. As we expand our service and introduce new features such as our free streaming channel, Curiosity Now, and our Smart Bundle plan, we are developing technology and utilizing third-party cloud computing, technology and other services. These efforts require significant resources, operational efficiency and management attention. If we are not able to manage the growing complexity of our business in an efficient manner, including improving, refining or revising our systems and operational practices related to our operations and content development, our business may be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely impacted by costs and challenges associated with strategic acquisitions and investments, including joint ventures. From time to time, we acquire or invest in businesses, content, and technologies that support our business. The risks associated with such acquisitions or investments (some of which may be unforeseen) include the difficulty of integrating solutions, operations, and personnel; inheriting liabilities and exposure to litigation; failure to realize anticipated benefits and expected synergies; and diversion of managements time and attention, among other acquisition- and/or investment-related risks. We may not be successful in overcoming such risks, and such acquisitions and investments may negatively impact our business. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to acquired goodwill, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. If our acquisitions do not yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on this impairment assessment process, as was the case in 2022. Acquisitions also could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our operating results. Furthermore, if we do not integrate an acquired business successfully and in a timely manner, we may not realize the benefits of the acquisition to the extent anticipated. If an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. Acquisitions and investments may contribute to fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. These fluctuations could arise from transaction-related costs and charges associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets recorded in connection with acquisitions and investments, which could negatively impact our financial results. We are currently party to a joint venture, and our participation in such joint venture is subject to risks, including, among other things: (i) shared approval rights over certain major decisions affecting the ownership or operation of the joint venture and any assets owned by the joint venture; (ii) our joint venture counterparts being subject to different laws or regulations than us, which could create conflicts of interest; (iii) our ability to sell our interest in the joint venture, or the joint ventures ability to sell additional interests of, or assets owned by, the joint venture, being limited to that set forth under the terms of the governing agreements; (iv) the terms of the governing agreements providing our joint venture counterparts the right to exclude us from the joint venture under certain circumstances; (v) the terms of the governing agreements containing non-compete provisions, which may limit other potential business opportunities for us; (vi) a put option that permits our joint venture counterparts to require us to purchase their interest, subject to certain conditions, which, if exercised, would expose us to the full economics and risks of such joint venture, rather than only our proportionate interest therein; and (vii) disagreements with our joint venture counterparts, which may result in arbitration that could be expensive and distracting to management and could delay important decisions. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Certain of our growth strategies are untested, unproven or not yet fully developed. We intend to increase our revenues through expanding our subscriber base by, among other things, continuing to expand into international markets, expanding into the mobile video market, expanding into the corporate social responsibility market, expanding into the branded partnerships market, developing our Content Licensing business and developing our in-house production studio, Curiosity Studios, as well as our increasing focus on AVOD, TVOD and FAST channels. Our content is primarily in the English language with subtitling or dubbing in Spanish, Mandarin, Russian, Swedish, German, Dutch, Danish, Finnish, Norwegian and Slovenian in parts of our library and the world where demand exists and we have the language version rights. Our rights to the international distribution of portions of our co-produced or licensed content are subject to certain geographic and platform or media restrictions. However, we intend to seek partnerships with strong platforms in international territories, subject, in each case, to any then-existing geographic and media restrictions on the distribution of any of our content. There can be no assurance that these international partnerships will be successful or result in our meeting revenue targets. We believe there is an opportunity for us to commission or create content for other program providers. However, there can be no assurance that these partners will, or will continue to, engage us for co-productions or commissioned content, or that we will earn the margins that we expect on such projects. 10 Table of Contents If we expand into new markets or increase certain operations in connection with our growth strategies, we may be required to comply with new regulatory requirements that could cause us to incur additional expenses, increase our cost of doing business, impose additional burdens on us or otherwise negatively affect our business. In pursuing these growth strategies, we expect to incur significant operating and capital expenditures and, as a result, we expect to continue to experience net losses in the future. It is possible that we will not be able to grow our revenues through these strategies, or if growth is achieved, that it will be maintained for any significant period, or at all. If we experience excessive rates of user churn, our revenues and business will be harmed. In order to increase our revenues, we must minimize the rate of loss of existing users while adding new users to our multiple subscription services. Our experience during our operating history indicates that many variables impact churn, including the type of plan selected, user engagement with the platform, length of a users subscription to date and subscription pricing. As a result, in periods of rapid user growth, we believe that our average churn is likely to increase as the average length of subscription to date decreases. Similarly, in periods of slow user growth, we believe that our average churn is likely to decrease since our average user duration is longer. However, these estimates are subject to change based on a number of factors, including the percentage of users selecting monthly vs. annual plans, increased rates of subscription cancellations and decreased rates of user acquisition. We cannot assure you that these estimates will be indicative of future performance or that the risks related to these estimates will not materialize. Users may cancel their subscription to our service for many reasons, including, among others, a perception that they do not use the service sufficiently, or the belief that the service is a poor value, an increase in the price of the service or that customer service issues are not satisfactorily resolved. We must continually add new users both to replace users who cancel and to continue to grow our business beyond our current user base. From August 2021 through the end of 2023, we included access to Nebula's SVOD service as a part of a combined CuriosityStream / Watch Nebula subscription offer and as part of our Smart Bundle subscription package. On September 26, 2023, Nebula provided us with a notice of non-renewal, which resulted in Nebula's SVOD service leaving our platform, including our Smart Bundle package. We have shared a number of subscribers with Nebula during the term of this relationship. Since terminating this agreement, we have experienced a decline in the number of subscribers and are at risk of further churn from those subscribers who may only wish to access the Nebula service directly following the expiration of their CuriosityStream/Watch Nebula or Smart Bundle subscription. If too many of our users cancel our service, or if we are unable to attract new users in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. Further, if excessive numbers of users cancel our service, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate in order to replace these users with new users. If our efforts to build a strong brand identity and improve user satisfaction and loyalty are not successful, we may not be able to attract or retain users, and our operating results may be adversely affected. The CuriosityStream brand is only nine years old, and we must continue to build a strong brand identity. To succeed, we must continue to attract and retain a large number of new users which require us to make significant advertising and promotional expenditures. We believe that the importance of brand loyalty will increase with the continued proliferation of SVOD subscription services. If our branding efforts are not successful, however, our ability to attract and retain users will be adversely affected, which may negatively impact our future operating results. 11 Table of Contents We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects. Our industry is intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future as current competitors improve their content offerings and as new participants enter the market. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins, loss of market share or greater difficulty in acquiring attractive content, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Many of the companies that are participating in the U.S. and global SVOD media sector have longer operating histories, larger and broader user bases, significantly greater financial, human, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. These companies, which include Netflix, Amazon.com, Hulu, Paramount, Comcast, BBC, PBS, Fox Networks, Warner Bros. Discovery, Disney and others, provide a broader range of content, and could redirect and apply considerable resources to acquired and original factual content. During the COVID-19 pandemic, both established companies and new competitors began developing and creating their own original factual content. In addition, many titles in our content library are subject to non-exclusive licenses, and as a result, our competitors may be able to license many of our popular titles to expand their reach into factual entertainment. If this were to occur, users that already subscribe to these services for other types of content may determine that they do not need to also subscribe to our service. There may also be other competitors, including non-profit and educational organizations and other knowledge-sharing focused institutions, that choose to focus on factual content that could directly compete with our SVOD offerings. Well-funded competitors may be better able to withstand economic downturns and periods of slow economic growth and the associated periods of reduced customer spending and increased pricing pressures. Some competitors are able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development or to investments or partnerships. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects. We face risks, such as unforeseen costs and potential liability, in connection with content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute through our service. As a producer and distributor of content, we face potential liability for negligence, copyright and trademark infringement, or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute. We also may face potential liability for content used in promoting our service, including marketing materials. We believe that original programming can help differentiate our service from other offerings, enhance our brand and otherwise attract and retain users. Consequently, we continue to devote resources toward the development, production, marketing and distribution of our original programming. To the extent our original programming does not meet our expectations, in particular, in terms of costs, viewing and popularity, our business, including our brand and results of operations, may be adversely impacted. As a content producer, we are responsible for production costs and other expenses. We also take on risks associated with production, such as completion risk. To the extent we create and sell physical or digital merchandise relating to our original programming, and/or license such rights to third parties, we could become subject to product liability, intellectual property or other claims related to such products. We may decide to remove content from our service, not to place licensed or produced content on our service or discontinue or alter production of original content if we believe such content might not be well received by our users, is prohibited by law or could be damaging to our brand. To the extent we do not accurately anticipate costs or mitigate risks, including for content that we obtain but ultimately does not appear on or is removed from our service, or if we become liable for content we acquire, produce, license and/or distribute, our business may suffer. Litigation to defend these claims could be costly and the expenses and damages arising from any liability or unforeseen production risks could harm our results of operations. We may not be indemnified against claims or costs of these types and we may not have insurance coverage for these types of claims. We rely upon a number of partners to make our service available on their platforms and devices. We currently offer users the ability to receive streaming content through a host of screens and devices, including televisions, set-top boxes, computers, streaming media players, game consoles and mobile devices. We have executed a number of distribution and licensing agreements with MVPDs, vMVPDs and digital distributors including Amazon.com, YouTube TV, Roku, Comcast, Cox Communications, Sling TV, Dish and others, as well as with our Bundled Distribution partners, including Multichoice, FuboTV and Izzi, among others. 12 Table of Contents The future performance of our distribution partners under these distribution agreements is uncertain and we can provide no assurance that our distribution partners can generate the number of paying subscribers to our SVOD service in an amount adequate to produce the revenue required to maintain business operations. In many instances, our agreements also include provisions by which the distribution partner bills consumers directly for the CuriosityStream service or otherwise offers services or products in connection with offering our service. We intend to continue to broaden our relationships with existing partners and to increase our capability to stream our content to other platforms, partners and territories over time. If we are not successful in maintaining existing and creating new relationships, or if we encounter technological, content licensing, regulatory, business or other impediments to delivering our streaming content to our users via these devices and platforms and in these territories, our ability to increase our subscriber base and grow our business, as well as retain existing users, could be adversely impacted. Our agreements with our partners are typically between one and three years in duration and our business could be adversely affected if, upon expiration, a number of our partners do not continue to provide access to our service or are unwilling to do so on terms acceptable to us, which terms may include the degree of accessibility and prominence of our service. Furthermore, while devices are manufactured and sold by entities other than CuriosityStream, the connection between these devices and CuriosityStream may nonetheless result in consumer dissatisfaction toward CuriosityStream and such dissatisfaction could result in claims against us or otherwise adversely impact our business. In addition, technology changes to our streaming functionality may require that partners update their devices. If partners do not update or otherwise modify their devices, our service and our users use and enjoyment of our content could be negatively impacted. We are subject to payment processing risk. Our users pay for our service using a variety of different payment methods, including credit and debit cards, gift cards, direct debit and online wallets. We rely on third parties to process payment. Acceptance and processing of these payment methods are subject to certain rules, regulations, and industry standards, including data storage requirements, additional authentication requirements for certain payment methods, and require payment of interchange and other fees. To the extent there are disruptions in our payment processing systems, increases in payment processing fees, material changes in the payment ecosystem, such as large re-issuances of payment cards, delays in receiving payments from payment processors and/or changes to rules or regulations concerning payment processing, our revenue, operating expenses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, the military invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces and the economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other nations on Russia, Belarus and certain Russian organizations and individuals may disrupt payments we receive for distribution of our content in Russia. In certain instances, we leverage third parties such as our MVPDs and other partners to bill subscribers on our behalf. If these third parties become unwilling or unable to continue processing payments on our behalf, we would have to find alternative methods of collecting payments, which could adversely impact user acquisition and retention. In addition, from time to time, we encounter fraudulent use of payment methods, which could impact our results of operation and if not adequately controlled and managed could create negative perceptions of our service. If we are unable to maintain our fraud and chargeback rate at acceptable levels, card networks may impose fines, our card approval rate may be impacted and we may be subject to additional card authentication requirements. The termination of our ability to process payments on any major payment method would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. Distributors failure to promote our content could adversely affect our revenue and could adversely affect our business results. We will not always control the timing and manner in which our licensed distributors distribute our content offerings. However, their decisions regarding the timing of release and promotional support are important in determining success. Any decision by those distributors not to distribute or promote our content or to promote our competitors content to a greater extent than they promote our content could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results, liquidity and prospects. 13 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain or, in newer markets establish, a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service and the content we offer, we may not be able to attract or retain users, we may face regulatory scrutiny and our operating results may be adversely affected. We believe that a positive reputation with consumers concerning our service is important in attracting and retaining users who have many choices when it comes to where to obtain video entertainment. To the extent our content is perceived as low quality, offensive or otherwise not compelling to consumers, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. To the extent our content is deemed controversial or offensive by government regulators, we may face direct or indirect retaliatory action or behavior, including being required to remove such content from our service, and our entire service could be banned and/or become subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny across our business and operations. In light of the military invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces and the economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other nations on Russia, Belarus and certain Russian organizations and individuals, our contracts to sell and distribute our content to Russian distributors in Russia may cast us in a negative light with consumers, governmental authorities, business partners or other stakeholders and injure our reputation. Furthermore, to the extent our marketing, customer service and public relations efforts are not effective or result in negative consumer reaction, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may likewise be adversely impacted. Lastly, to the extent we suffer any security vulnerabilities, bugs, errors or other performance failures, our ability to establish and maintain a positive reputation may be adversely impacted. With newer markets, we also need to establish our reputation with consumers and to the extent we are not successful in creating positive impressions, our business in these newer markets may be adversely impacted. In addition, there is an increasing focus from regulators, investors, members and other stakeholders on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters, both in the U.S. and internationally, including the adoption of new disclosure and regulatory frameworks. To the extent the content we distribute and the manner in which we produce content creates ESG related concerns, our reputation may be harmed. Changes in competitive offerings for video entertainment, including the potential rapid adoption of piracy-based video offerings, could adversely impact our business. The market for video entertainment is intensely competitive and subject to rapid change. Through new and existing distribution channels, consumers have increasing options to access video entertainment. The various economic models underlying these channels include subscription, transactional, ad-supported and piracy-based models. All of these have the potential to capture meaningful segments of the video entertainment market. Piracy, in particular, threatens to damage our business. Piracys fundamental proposition to consumers is compelling and difficult to compete against, as virtually all content is free. Further, in light of the compelling consumer proposition, piracy services are subject to rapid global growth. In addition, traditional providers of video entertainment, including broadcasters and cable network operators, as well as internet-based e-commerce or video entertainment providers, are increasing their internet-based video offerings. Several of these competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, strong brand recognition and significant financial, marketing and other resources. They may secure better terms from suppliers, adopt more aggressive pricing and devote more resources to product development, technology, infrastructure, content acquisitions and marketing. New entrants may enter the market or existing providers may adjust their services with unique offerings or approaches to providing video entertainment. In addition, new technological developments, including the development and use of generative artificial intelligence, are rapidly evolving. If our competitors gain an advantage by using such technologies, our ability to compete effectively and our results of operations could be adversely impacted. Companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. Companies also may enter into business combinations or alliances that strengthen their competitive positions. If we are unable to successfully or profitably compete with current and new competitors, our business will be adversely affected, and we may not be able to increase or maintain market share and revenues or achieve profitability. 14 Table of Contents If government regulations relating to the internet or other areas of our business change, we may need to alter the manner in which we conduct our business or incur greater operating expenses. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the internet, telecommunications or other areas of our business could limit or otherwise adversely affect the manner in which we currently conduct our business. As our service and others like us gain traction in international markets, governments are increasingly looking to introduce new or extend legacy regulations to these services, in particular those related to broadcast media, content obligations or restrictions, treatment of intellectual property, net neutrality or payment for transmission and tax. For example, recent changes to European law enable individual member states to impose levies and other financial obligations on media operators located outside their jurisdiction. It is also currently unknown how the military invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces and the economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other nations on Russia, Belarus and certain Russian organizations and individuals may affect us in the future. We anticipate that several jurisdictions may, over time, impose greater financial and regulatory obligations on us. In addition, the continued growth and development of the market for online commerce may lead to more stringent consumer protection laws, which may impose additional burdens on us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or legislation or new interpretations of existing regulations or legislation, this compliance could cause us to incur additional expenses or alter our business model. Changes in laws or regulations that adversely affect the growth, popularity or use of the internet, including laws impacting net neutrality or requiring payment of network access fees, could decrease the demand for our service and increase our cost of doing business. Certain laws intended to prevent network operators from discriminating against the legal traffic that traverse their networks have been implemented in many countries, including across the EU. In others, the laws may be nascent or non-existent. Furthermore, favorable laws may change, including for example, in the U.S. where net neutrality regulations were somewhat recently repealed. Given uncertainty around these rules, including changing interpretations, amendments or repeal, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business. Changes in how we market our service, or increases in our advertising rates, could adversely affect our marketing expenses and user levels may be adversely affected. We utilize a broad mix of marketing and public relations programs, including social media sites, to promote our service to potential new users. We may limit or discontinue use or support of certain marketing sources or activities if advertising rates increase or if we become concerned that users or potential users deem certain marketing practices intrusive or damaging to our brand. If the available marketing channels are curtailed, our ability to attract new users may be adversely affected. Companies that promote our service and/or host our advertisements may decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us. For example, if they decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, we may no longer have access to their marketing channels or they may charge us higher advertising rates, preventing us from advertising at competitive and/or reasonable rates. We also acquire a number of users who rejoin our service after having previously cancelled their subscription. If we are unable to maintain or replace our sources of subscriptions with similarly effective sources, or if the cost of our existing subscription increases, our subscription levels and marketing expenses may be adversely affected. We utilize marketing to promote our content and drive viewing by our users. To the extent we promote our content inefficiently or ineffectively, we may not obtain the expected acquisition and retention benefits and our business may be adversely affected. Emerging industry trends in digital advertising may pose challenges for our ability to forecast or optimize our advertising inventory, which may adversely impact our ability to capture advertising spend. The digital advertising industry is introducing new ways to measure and price advertising inventory. For example, a significant portion of advertisers are in the process of moving from purchasing advertisement impressions based on the number of advertisements served by the applicable ad server to a new viewable impression standard (based on number of pixels in view and duration) for select products. 15 Table of Contents In the absence of a uniform industry standard, agencies and advertisers have adopted several different measurement methodologies and standards. In addition, measurement services may require technological integrations, which are still being evaluated by the advertising industry without an agreed-upon industry standard metric. As these trends in the industry continue to evolve, our sponsorship and advertising fees may be adversely affected by the availability, accuracy and utility of the available analytics and measurement technologies as well as our ability to successfully implement and operationalize such technologies and standards. Our user metrics and other estimates are subject to inherent challenges in measurement, and real or perceived inaccuracies in those metrics may seriously harm and negatively affect our reputation and our business. We regularly review key metrics related to the operation of our business, including, but not limited to monthly active users (MAUs) and user churn, to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance, and make strategic decisions. These metrics are calculated using internal company data and have not been validated by an independent third party. While these numbers are based on what we believe to be reasonable estimates of our user base for the applicable period of measurement, there are inherent challenges in measuring how our service is used across populations globally. Errors or inaccuracies in our metrics or data could result in incorrect business decisions and inefficiencies. For instance, if a significant understatement of churn or overstatement of MAUs were to occur, we may expend resources to implement unnecessary business measures or fail to take required actions to attract a sufficient number of users to satisfy our growth strategies. Some of our demographic data also may be incomplete or inaccurate because users self-report their personal information. Consequently, the personal data we have may differ from our users actual information. If sponsors, advertisers, partners or investors do not perceive our user, geographic or other demographic metrics to be accurate representations of our user base, or if we discover material inaccuracies in our user, geographic, or other demographic metrics, our reputation may be seriously harmed. See We are at risk of attempts at unauthorized access to our service through cyberattacks, and failure to effectively prevent and remediate such attempts could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on subscription data provided by our third-party distributors and platform partners that has not been independently verified, and inaccuracies in that data may seriously harm and adversely affect our reputation and our business. Our calculation of total paying subscribers includes the subscribers who are accessing our service via a third-party distributor or platform partner. We rely on these third-party distributors and platform partners to provide us with subscriber data. This data may be based on verbal, unpublished or confidential reports and may not have been validated by us or an independent third party. We use this data, among other things, to evaluate growth trends, measure our performance and make strategic decisions. Reliance on such unconfirmed or unpublished data could lead us to make incorrect calculations or business decisions or incur inefficiencies, particularly if these third parties provide inaccurate or incomplete data. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation and business could be seriously harmed or adversely affected. Our business emphasizes rapid innovation and prioritizes long-term user engagement over short-term financial condition or results of operations, which strategy could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is evolving and has become more complex, and our success depends on our ability to quickly develop and launch new and innovative services. We believe our culture fosters this goal. Our focus on complexity and quick reactions could result in unintended outcomes or decisions that are poorly received by our users, advertisers, sponsors or partners. Our culture also prioritizes our long-term user engagement over short-term financial condition or results of operations. We also regularly run promotions discounting our service plans from their published prices. No assurance can be provided that such price reductions will produce an increase in subscribers to a level adequate to support sponsorship sales or generate revenue in an amount required to maintain business operations. These decisions may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case, our user growth and engagement, our relationships with advertisers, sponsors and partners, as well as our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. 16 Table of Contents We may incur non-cash impairment charges for our content assets, goodwill, other intangible assets and equity method investments which would negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. It is possible that we may never realize the full value of our intangible assets. We regularly review our long-lived assets, including our content assets, goodwill and other finite-lived intangible assets for impairment. Goodwill is subject to impairment review on an annual basis and whenever potential impairment indicators are present. Other long-lived assets, including our content assets, and finite-lived intangible assets are reviewed when there is an indication that an impairment may have occurred. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, and other finite-lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the varying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Impairment may result from, among other indicators, a decline in the share price of the Common Stock or market capitalization and negative industry or economic trends. As a result of a sustained decrease in our share price during the second quarter of 2022, we concluded that a triggering event had occurred, conducted impairment testing of our goodwill balance and recognized an impairment charge to goodwill. Also during the second quarter of 2022, we determined that impairment indicators existed with respect to certain of our finite-lived intangible assets. As a result, we performed an impairment test by comparing the carrying values of the intangible assets to their respective fair values, which were determined based on forecasted future cash flows. As a result of this impairment test, we recorded an impairment charge to those finite-lived intangible assets during the second quarter of 2022. We also regularly review our investments in equity method investees for impairment, including when the carrying value of an investment exceeds its related market or fair value. If we determine that an investment has sustained an other-than-temporary decline in value, the investment is written-down to its fair value. The factors we consider in making this determination include, but are not limited to, (i) the determined market value of the investee in relation to its cost basis, (ii) the financial condition and operating performance of the investee, and (iii) our intent and ability to retain the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for recovery in the market value of the investment. Accordingly, we recognized impairments to our equity method investments in the Spiegel Venture and Nebula in the second and third quarters of 2023, respectively. In addition, companies in the streaming industry experienced a decline in market valuations during 2023, and the market price of our common shares declined significantly through the third quarter. Reflecting this market trend and due to the continued adverse macro and microeconomic conditions, including the competitive environment and its impact on our subscriber growth, we revised our forecasted subscriber growth and cash flow assumptions. Given these factors, as well as our continuing operating losses, we identified an indicator of impairment related to our content asset group and performed an analysis of content assets to assess if the fair value was less than unamortized cost. As a result of this impairment analysis of content assets, we recorded an impairment during the third quarter of 2023. If the decline in our share price continues in 2024, we would be required to further test our content assets, finite-lived intangible assets, and equity method investments, which may result in an impairment. The impairment of all or part of our content assets, finite-lived intangible assets or equity method investments may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The amount of impairment determined reduces the carrying value of the asset and is expensed in that period as a charge to our results of operations. The fair value determinations underlying the quantitative aspect of our impairment testing require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates and market factors. Estimating the fair value of our reporting unit and intangible assets requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic and regulatory conditions. If current expectations are not met, or if market factors outside of our control change significantly, then our reporting unit or intangible assets might become impaired in the future, adversely affecting our operating results and financial position. The carrying amounts of our content assets and finite-lived intangible assets are susceptible to impairment risk if there are unfavorable changes in such assumptions, estimates and market factors. To the extent that business conditions deteriorate or key assumptions and estimates differ significantly from our managements expectations, it may be necessary to recognize additional impairment charges in the future. 17 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY If content providers or other rights holders refuse to license streaming content or other rights upon terms acceptable to us, our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide our users with content they enjoy depends on content providers and other rights holders licensing rights to distribute such content and certain related elements thereof, such as the public performance of music contained within the content we distribute, upon terms acceptable to us. While the license periods and the terms and conditions of such licenses vary, a significant portion of our content is subject to license for a given period. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 81% of our SVOD titles were subject to licenses, approximately 39% of which expire in 2024 and approximately 46% of which expire in 2025. Of the titles that expire in 2024 and 2025, some may be renewed for a one- or two-year term at our unilateral option. If the content providers and other rights holders are not or are no longer willing or able to license us content upon terms acceptable to us, our ability to deliver particular items of content to our subscribers will be adversely affected and/or our costs could increase. Certain licenses for content provide for the content providers to withdraw content from our service relatively quickly, and such content providers could decide that we negatively impact their business or may make business decisions that in turn negatively impact us. For example, certain content providers could decide that they want to compete more directly with us, enter a similar business or exclusively support our competitors, and in such event we may no longer have access to their content at all or only at higher rates. Because of these provisions as well as other actions we may take, content available through our service can be withdrawn on short notice. As competition increases, we may see the cost of programming increase. As we seek to differentiate our service, we are increasingly focused on securing certain exclusive rights when obtaining content, including original content. We are also focused on programming an overall mix of content appealing to our users in a cost-efficient manner. Within this context, we are selective about the titles we add and renew to our service. If we do not maintain a compelling mix of content, our user acquisition and retention may be adversely affected. Music and certain authors performances contained within content we distribute may require us to obtain licenses for such distribution. In this regard, we engage in negotiations with collection management organizations (CMOs) that hold certain rights to music and/or other interests in connection with streaming content into various territories. If we are unable to reach mutually acceptable terms with these organizations, we could become involved in litigation and/or could be enjoined from distributing certain content, which could adversely impact our business. Additionally, pending and ongoing litigation, as well as negotiations between certain CMOs and other third parties in various territories, could adversely impact our negotiations with CMOs, or result in music publishers represented by certain CMOs unilaterally withdrawing rights, thereby adversely impacting our ability to negotiate licensing agreements reasonably acceptable to us. Failure to negotiate such licensing agreements could expose us to potential liability for copyright infringement or otherwise increase our costs. Additionally, as the market for the digital distribution of content grows, a broader role for CMOs in the remuneration of authors, performers and other beneficiaries of neighboring rights is likely to expose us to greater distribution expenses in certain markets. If our trademarks and other proprietary rights are not adequately protected to prevent use or appropriation by our competitors, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and our business may be adversely affected. We rely and expect to continue to rely on a combination of confidentiality and license agreements with our employees, consultants and third parties with whom we have relationships, as well as trademark and copyright laws, to protect our proprietary rights. We may also seek to enforce our proprietary rights through court proceedings or other legal actions. We have filed and we expect to file from time to time for trademark applications. Nevertheless, these applications may not be approved, third parties may challenge any copyrights or trademarks issued to or held by us, third parties may knowingly or unknowingly infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may not be able to prevent infringement or misappropriation without substantial expense to us. If the protection of our intellectual property rights is inadequate to prevent use or misappropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to users and potential users may become confused in the marketplace, and our ability to attract users may be adversely affected. In addition, the use or adoption of new and emerging technologies may increase our exposure to intellectual property claims, and the availability of copyright and other intellectual property protection for artificial 18 Table of Contents intelligence-generated material is uncertain. Further, new technologies such as generative artificial intelligence and their impact on our intellectual property rights remain uncertain, and development of the law in this area could impact our ability to protect against infringing uses or result in infringement claims against us. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brand, including www.curiositystream.com. Failure to protect our domain names could adversely affect our reputation and brand and make it more difficult for users to find our website and our service. We may be unable, without significant cost or at all, to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and result in the loss of significant rights related to, among other things, our website, streaming technology, our recommendation and promotion capabilities, title selection processes and marketing activities. Trademark, copyright and other intellectual property rights are important to us and other companies. Our intellectual property rights extend to our technology, business processes and the content we produce and distribute through our website. We use the intellectual property of third parties in creating some of our content and marketing our service through contractual and other rights. From time to time, third parties may allege that we have violated their intellectual property rights. If we are unable to obtain sufficient rights, successfully defend our use, or develop non-infringing technology or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely basis in response to claims against us for infringement, misappropriation, misuse or other violation of third-party intellectual property rights, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Many companies are devoting significant resources to developing patents that could potentially affect many aspects of our business. There are numerous patents that broadly claim means and methods of conducting business on the internet. We have not searched patents relative to our technology. Defending ourselves against intellectual property claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, could result in significant costs to our business and diversion of technical and management personnel. It also may result in our inability to use our current website, streaming technology, our recommendation and promotion capability or inability to market our service. We may also have to remove content from our service. As a result of a dispute, we may have to develop non-infringing technology, enter into royalty or licensing agreements, adjust our content, marketing activities or take other actions to resolve the claims. These actions, if required, may be costly or unavailable on terms acceptable to us. RISKS RELATED TO LIQUIDITY We may find it difficult to successfully compete without significant capital investment or loans beyond what is available to us in current and future capital raising efforts. Competing in the global media marketplace requires considerable financial resources, especially in the direct-to-consumer SVOD business sector, which requires substantial advertising and marketing expenditures to build widespread brand awareness to a level that produces subscribers and continuous investment in our content offerings. In a global media marketplace with competitors spending greater amounts on programming and marketing and/or content than we do, we may find it difficult to successfully compete without significant capital investment or loans beyond what is available to us in current and future capital raising efforts. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to successfully maintain the amount of capital resources required to successfully compete and survive as a business. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our obligations and any debt we may incur in the future. Our ability to make payments on our obligations and any debt we incur in the future will depend on our financial and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Since inception, our cash flows from operating activities have been negative. We may be unable to attain a level of cash flows from operating activities or maintain the level of liquidity sufficient to permit us to pay our obligations, including amounts due under our streaming content obligations, and the principal, premium, if any, and interest on any debt we incur. We may or may not be able to accurately predict the ultimate impact on our levels of liquidity from our cash flows and such predictions are subject to change. 19 Table of Contents If we are unable to service our obligations, including any debt we may incur in the future, from cash flows, we may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of such obligations prior to maturity. Our ability to refinance or restructure obligations, including any debt we may incur in the future, will depend upon the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. If the financial markets become difficult or costly to access, including due to higher interest rates, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates or other changes in economic conditions, our ability to raise additional capital may be negatively impacted, and any refinancing or restructuring could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. If our cash flows are insufficient to service our then-existing debt and other obligations, we may not be able to refinance or restructure any of these obligations on commercially reasonable terms or at all and any refinancing or restructuring could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If our cash flows are insufficient to service our obligations, including any debt we may incur in the future, and we are unable to refinance or restructure these obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to sell material assets or operations to meet our then-existing debt and other obligations. We cannot assure you that we would be able to implement any of these alternative measures on satisfactory terms or at all or that the proceeds from such alternatives would be adequate to meet any debt or other obligations then due. If we were required to implement any of these alternative measures, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our cash and cash equivalents could be adversely affected if the financial institutions in which we hold our cash and cash equivalents fail. Actual events involving limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments that affect financial institutions, transactional counterparties or other companies in the financial services industry or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds or other similar risks, have in the past and may in the future lead to market-wide liquidity problems. If we were unable to access all or a significant portion of the amounts we have deposited at financial institutions for any extended period of time, we may not be able to pay our operational expenses or make other payments until we are able to move our funds to accounts at one or more other financial institutions, which process could cause a temporary delay in making payments to our vendors and employees and cause other operational challenges. We have a substantial amount of obligations, including streaming content obligations, which, together with any debt we may incur in the future, could adversely affect our financial position, and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service our obligations. We have a substantial amount of obligations, including streaming content obligations. Moreover, we may incur substantial indebtedness in the future and expect to incur other obligations, including additional streaming content obligations. As of December 31, 2023, we had $0.4 million of total content liabilities as reflected in our consolidated balance sheet. Such amount did not include content commitments that did not meet the criteria for liability recognition. For more information on our content obligations, including those not in our balance sheet, see Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Our obligations, including content obligations, may: make it difficult for us to satisfy our other financial obligations; limit our ability to use our cash flow, borrow additional funds or obtain other additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments and pay our other obligations when due; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. 20 Table of Contents The long-term and fixed cost nature of our content commitments may limit our operating flexibility and could adversely affect our liquidity and results of operations. In connection with licensing content, we typically enter into multi-year commitments with content providers. We also enter into multi-year commitments for content that we produce, either directly or through third parties, including elements associated with these productions such as non-cancellable commitments under talent agreements. The payment terms of these agreements are not tied to usage or the size of our user base but may be determined by costs of production or tied to such factors as titles licensed. Such commitments, to the extent estimable under accounting standards, are included in Note 14 - Commitments and Contingencies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Given the multi-year duration and largely fixed-cost nature of our content commitments, if user acquisition and retention do not meet our expectations, our margins may be adversely impacted. Payment terms for certain content commitments, such as content we directly produce, will typically require more up-front cash payments than other content licenses or arrangements where we do not fund the production of such content. To the extent user and/or revenue growth do not meet our expectations, our liquidity and results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of content commitments and accelerated payment requirements of certain agreements. In addition, the long-term and largely fixed-cost nature of our content commitments may limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and the markets in which we operate. If we license and/or produce content that is not favorably received by consumers in a territory, or is unable to be shown in a territory, acquisition and retention may be adversely impacted, and given the long-term and fixed-cost nature of our content commitments, we may not be able to adjust our content offerings quickly, and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. RISKS RELATED TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized access, harm to our reputation, disclosure or destruction of data, including user and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. Our reputation and ability to attract, retain and serve our users is dependent upon the reliable performance and security of our computer systems, mobile and other user applications, and those of third parties that we utilize in our operations. These systems may be subject to cyber incident, damage or interruption from earthquakes, adverse weather conditions, lack of maintenance due to human error or oversight, natural disasters, public health issues such as pandemics or endemics, terrorist attacks, power loss, telecommunications failures, cybersecurity risks and incidents, and other interruptions beyond our control. Interruptions in, destruction or manipulation of these systems, or with the internet in general, could make our service unavailable or degraded or otherwise hinder our ability to deliver streaming content. Service interruptions, errors in our software or the unavailability of computer systems or data used in our operations, delivery or user interface could diminish the overall attractiveness of our user service to existing and potential users. Our computer systems, mobile and other applications and systems of third parties we use in our operations are vulnerable to constantly evolving cybersecurity risks, including cyber-attacks and loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability, both from state-sponsored and individual activity, such as hacks, unauthorized access, computer viruses, denial of service attacks, physical or electronic break-ins, malware, ransomware, insider threats, and misconfigurations in information systems, networks, software or hardware, errors and similar disruptions and destruction. Such systems have previously and may continue to periodically experience directed attacks intended to lead to interruptions and delays in our service and operations as well as loss, misuse or theft of data or intellectual property. Any attempt by hackers to obtain our data (including user and corporate information) or intellectual property (including digital content assets), disrupt our service, or otherwise access our systems, or those of third parties we use, if successful, could harm our business, be expensive to remedy, expose us to potential liability and damage our reputation. 21 Table of Contents We have implemented certain systems and processes to thwart hackers and protect our data and systems. From time to time, we have experienced an unauthorized release of certain digital content assets, however, to date these unauthorized releases have not had a material impact on our service or systems. There is no assurance that cyber incidents may not have a material impact on our service or systems in the future. Our insurance may not cover expenses related to such disruptions, losses or unauthorized access. Efforts to prevent hackers from disrupting our service or otherwise accessing our systems are expensive to implement and may limit the functionality of or otherwise negatively impact our service offering and systems. Any significant disruption to our service or access to our systems could result in a loss of users, liability and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We utilize our own communications and computer hardware systems located either in our facilities or in those of a third-party web hosting provider. In addition, we utilize third-party cloud computing services in connection with our business operations. We also utilize our own and third-party content delivery networks to help us stream factual entertainment in high volume to CuriosityStream users over the internet. Problems faced by us or our third-party Web hosting, cloud computing, or other network providers, including technological or business-related disruptions, as well as cybersecurity threats, could adversely impact the experience of our users, resulting in a loss of users, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If the technology we use in operating our business fails, is unavailable, or does not operate to expectations, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We utilize a combination of proprietary and third-party technology to operate our business. This includes the technology that we have developed to recommend and promote content to our consumers as well as enable fast and efficient delivery of content to our users and their various consumer electronic devices. If our recommendation and promotion capabilities do not enable us to predict and recommend titles that our users will enjoy, our ability to attract and retain users may be adversely affected. We also utilize third-party technology to help market our service, process payments and otherwise manage the daily operations of our business. If our technology or that of third parties we utilize in our operations fails or otherwise operates improperly, including as a result of bugs in our development and deployment of software, our ability to operate our service, retain existing users and add new users may be impaired. In addition, any harm to our users personal computers or other devices caused by software used in our operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon Amazon Web Services (AWS) to operate certain aspects of our service, and any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely affected. AWS provides a distributed computing infrastructure platform for business operations, or what is commonly referred to as a cloud computing service. We have architected our software and computer systems so as to utilize data processing, storage capabilities and other services provided by AWS. Currently, we run the vast majority of our computing on AWS. In addition, Amazon.coms retail division competes with us for users, and Amazon.com could use, or restrict our use of, AWS to gain a competitive advantage against us. Because we rely heavily on AWS for computing infrastructure and we cannot easily switch our AWS operations to another cloud provider, any disruption of or interference with our use of AWS would impact our operations and our business would be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Interruptions or delays in service arising from our own systems or from our third-party vendors could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We rely on systems housed at our own premises and at those of third-party vendors, including network service providers and data center facilities, to enable viewers to stream our content in a dependable and efficient manner. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, periodic service interruptions and delays involving our own systems and those of our third-party vendors. We do not currently maintain live fail-over capability that would allow us to instantaneously switch our streaming operations from AWS to another cloud provider in the event of a service outage at AWS. We house the original or primary copy of our library database at our principal operational offices. We update copies of our content on a weekly basis and house these copies offsite. Both our own facilities and those of our third-party vendors are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They also are subject to break-ins, hacking, denial of service attacks, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist acts, natural disasters, human error, the financial insolvency of our third-party vendors and other unanticipated problems or events. The occurrence of any of these events could result in interruptions in our service and the unauthorized access to, or alteration of, the content and data contained on our systems and that these third-party vendors store and deliver on our behalf. We do not exercise complete control over our third-party vendors, which makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions, or delays in their operations. Any disruption in the services provided by these vendors could have a significant adverse impact on our business reputation, customer relations and operating results. Upon expiration or termination of any of our agreements with third party vendors, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete. Some of our services and technologies may use open-source software, which may restrict how we use or distribute our service or require that we release the source code of certain services subject to those licenses. Some of our services and technologies may incorporate software licensed under open-source licenses. Such open-source licenses often require that source code subject to the license be made available to the public and that any modifications or derivative works to open-source software continue to be licensed under open-source licenses. Few courts have interpreted open-source licenses, and the manner in which these licenses may be interpreted and enforced is therefore subject to some uncertainty. We rely on multiple employee and non-employee software programmers to design our proprietary technologies, and since we may not be able to exercise complete control over the development efforts of all such programmers we cannot be certain that they have not incorporated open-source software into our products and services without our knowledge, or that they will not do so in the future. In the event that portions of our proprietary technology are determined to be subject to certain open source licenses, we may be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, be forced to re-engineer all or a portion of our technologies, or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our technologies, each of which could reduce the value of our services and technologies and materially and adversely affect our ability to sustain and grow our business. Changes in how network operators handle and charge for access to data that travel across their networks could adversely impact our business. We rely upon the ability of consumers to access our service through the internet. If network operators block, restrict or otherwise impair access to our service over their networks, our service and business could be negatively affected. To the extent that network operators implement usage-based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks by data providers, we could incur greater operating expenses and our user acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit us from having our content available through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. Most network operators that provide consumers with access to the internet also provide these consumers with multichannel video programming. As such, many network operators have an incentive to use their network infrastructure in a manner adverse to our continued growth and success. To the extent that network operators are able to provide preferential treatment to their data as opposed to ours or otherwise implement discriminatory network management practices, our business could be negatively impacted. 23 Table of Contents We are at risk of attempts at unauthorized access to our service through cyberattacks, and failure to effectively prevent and remediate such attempts could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be impacted by attempts of third parties to manipulate and exploit our software for the purpose of gaining unauthorized access to our service. If in the future we fail to successfully detect and address such issues, it may have artificial effects on our key performance indicators, such as advertising reach. Since unauthorized access to our service may in the future happen through exploitation of software vulnerabilities, once a new method of doing so is developed by third parties, the level of unauthorized access (and attendant negative financial impact described above, if at all) may increase over time as third parties share the method until we find a way to prevent the unauthorized access, assuming we are able to do so at all. Additionally, individuals using unauthorized versions of our application are unlikely to subscribe to our paid CuriosityStream service. Moreover, once we detect and correct such unauthorized access and any key performance indicators it affects, investor confidence in the integrity of our key performance indicators could be undermined. All of the above consequences of unauthorized access to our service could have material and adverse effects on our business, operating results and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS We could be subject to economic, political, regulatory and other risks arising from our international operations. Operating in international markets requires significant resources and management attention and will subject us to regulatory, economic and political risks that may be different from or incremental to those in the U.S. In addition to the risks that we face in the U.S., our international operations involve risks that could adversely affect our business, including: new and different sources of competition; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws, including data localization requirements; adverse tax consequences such as those related to changes in tax laws or tax rates or their interpretations, and the related application of judgment in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities or other tax liabilities given the ultimate tax determination is uncertain; different or more onerous or costly rights society collection royalties and charges; the need to adapt our content and user interfaces for specific cultural and language differences, including in-licensing a certain portion of our content assets before we have developed a full appreciation for its performance within a given territory; difficulties in complying with territorial licenses; difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; management distraction; political or social unrest, global hostilities and economic instability, including the Israel-Hamas war, as well as the military invasion of Ukraine by Russian forces and the economic sanctions imposed by the U.S. and other nations on Russia, Belarus and certain Russian organizations and individuals; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, export controls and economic sanctions, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; difficulties in understanding and complying with local laws, regulations and customs in foreign jurisdictions; regulatory requirements or government action against our service, whether in response to enforcement of actual or purported legal and regulatory requirements or otherwise, that results in disruption or non-availability of our service or particular content in the applicable jurisdiction; 24 Table of Contents foreign intellectual property laws, such as the EU copyright directive, or changes to such laws, which may be less favorable than U.S. law and, among other issues, may impact the economics of creating or distributing content, anti-piracy efforts, or our ability to protect or exploit intellectual property rights; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which have and may continue to impact revenues and expenses of our international operations and expose us to foreign currency exchange rate risk, which we do not currently hedge against but may do so in the future; profit repatriation and other restrictions on the transfer of funds; differing payment processing systems as well as consumer use and acceptance of electronic payment methods, such as payment cards; censorship requirements that cause us to remove or edit content or make other accommodations that lead to consumer disappointment or dissatisfaction with our service; low usage and/or penetration of internet-connected consumer electronic devices; availability of reliable broadband connectivity and wide area networks in targeted areas for expansion; integration and operational challenges as well as potential unknown liabilities in connection with companies we may acquire or control; differing, and often more lenient, laws and consumer understanding/attitudes regarding the illegality of piracy; negative impacts from trade disputes; and implementation of regulations designed to stimulate the local production of film and television series in order to promote and preserve local culture and economic activity, including local content quotas, investment obligations, and levies to support local film funds. For example, the EU recently revised its Audio Visual Media Services Directive to require that European works comprise at least thirty (30) percent of media service providers catalogs, and to require prominence of those works. These and other factors may cause us to adjust our business plans, including expanding or ceasing certain operations in certain countries, and the execution of our strategies. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and could have an adverse effect on our overall business and results of operations. We are potentially subject to taxation related risks in multiple jurisdictions, and changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial condition. We are a U.S.-based company potentially subject to tax in multiple U.S. and non-U.S. tax jurisdictions. Significant judgment will be required in determining our global provision for income taxes, deferred tax assets or liabilities and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. While we believe our tax positions are consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business, it is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities, which may have a significant impact on our global provision for income taxes. Tax laws are dynamic and subject to change as new laws are passed and new interpretations of the law are issued or applied. Proposals to reform U.S. tax laws could significantly impact how U.S. companies are taxed and may increase our U.S. corporate effective tax rate. Although we cannot predict whether or in what form any such proposals will pass, certain proposals under consideration, if enacted into law, could have an adverse impact on our effective tax rate, income tax expense, and cash flows. In addition, governmental tax authorities are increasingly scrutinizing the tax positions of companies. Many countries in the EU, as well as a number of other countries and organizations such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, are actively considering changes to existing tax laws that, if enacted, could increase our tax obligations in countries where we do business. If U.S. or non-U.S. tax authorities change applicable tax laws, our overall taxes could increase, and our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. 25 Table of Contents In particular, taxing authorities in many jurisdictions have targeted online platforms as a means to collect indirect taxes in connection with transactions taking place over the internet. An increasing number of jurisdictions are considering or have adopted new tax measures, such as digital services taxes or online sales taxes, targeting online commerce. Such taxes generally are imposed on digital transactions executed by a non-resident entity with a local end-user or local end-consumer. If enacted and applicable, such taxes may increase our worldwide effective tax rate, create tax and compliance obligations in jurisdictions in which we previously had none and adversely affect our financial position. Proliferation of these or similar unilateral tax measures may continue unless broader international tax reform is implemented. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR COMMON STOCK NASDAQ may delist our securities from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our Common Stock and Warrants are listed on NASDAQ. We cannot assure you that our securities will continue to be listed on NASDAQ in the future. In order to continue listing our securities on NASDAQ, we must maintain certain financial, distribution and stock price levels. Generally, we must maintain a minimum amount in stockholders equity (generally $2,500,000 for companies trading on NASDAQ), a minimum number of holders of our securities (generally 300 public holders) and a $1.00 minimum share price. On September 19, 2023, we received written notice from the Nasdaq Stock Market, LLC (Nasdaq) indicating that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement for the continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. On March 19, 2024, we received written notification from the Listing Qualifications Department of Nasdaq, granting our request for a 180-day extension to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. We now have until September 16, 2024 to meet the requirement.To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our Common Stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive business days during this 180-day period. If we fail to regain compliance during the second compliance period, then Nasdaq will notify us of its determination to delist our Common Stock, at which point we would have an option to appeal the delisting determination to a Nasdaq hearings panel. We intend to actively monitor the closing bid price of our Common Stock and may, if appropriate, consider implementing available strategies to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement under the Nasdaq Listing Rules. If NASDAQ delists our securities from trading on its exchange and we are not able to list our securities on another national securities exchange, we expect our securities could be quoted on an over-the-counter market. If this were to occur, we could face significant material adverse consequences, including: a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; reduced liquidity for our securities; a determination that our Common Stock is a penny stock which will require brokers trading in our Common Stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly result in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our securities; a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. The National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, which is a federal statute, prevents or preempts the states from regulating the sale of certain securities, which are referred to as covered securities. Since our Common Stock and Warrants are listed on NASDAQ, they are covered securities. Although the states are preempted from regulating the sale of covered securities, the federal statute does allow the states to investigate companies if there is a suspicion of fraud, and, if there is a finding of fraudulent activity, then the states can regulate or bar the sale of covered securities in a particular case. If we were to be no longer listed on NASDAQ, our securities would not be covered securities and we would be subject to regulation in each state in which we offer our securities. 26 Table of Contents Our stock price may change significantly and you could lose all or part of your investment as a result. The trading price of our Common Stock is likely to be volatile. The stock market has experienced extreme volatility at times since the COVID-19 pandemic. This volatility often has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. You may not be able to resell your shares at an attractive price due to a number of factors such as those listed in Risks Relating to the Companys Business and the following: results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; results of operations that vary from those of our competitors; changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates and investment recommendations by securities analysts and investors; declines in the market prices of stocks generally; strategic actions by us or our competitors; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, joint ventures, other strategic relationships or capital commitments; any significant change in our management; changes in general economic or market conditions or trends in our industry or markets; changes in business or regulatory conditions, including new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business; future sales of our Common Stock or other securities; investor perceptions or the investment opportunity associated with our Common Stock relative to other investment alternatives; the publics response to press releases or other public announcements by us or third parties, including our filings with the SEC; litigation involving us, our industry, or both, or investigations by regulators into our operations or those of our competitors; guidance, if any, that we provide to the public, any changes in this guidance or our failure to meet this guidance; the development and sustainability of an active trading market for our Common Stock; actions by institutional or activist stockholders; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidelines, interpretations or principles; and other events or factors, including those resulting from natural disasters, war, acts of terrorism or responses to these events. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, price volatility may be greater if the public float and trading volume of our Common Stock is low. Declines in the market price of our Common Stock or failure of the market price to increase could also harm our ability to retain key employees, reduce our access to capital, cause us to incur impairment charges and otherwise harm our business. During the year ended December 31, 2023, there was a decline in the Companys market capitalization, based upon the Companys publicly quoted share price, below the Companys carrying or book value. As a result of the sustained decline in our share price, we were required to perform impairment testing of our content assets, definite-lived intangible assets, and other long-lived assets, which resulted in impairment charges being recorded in the period related to our content assets, which is discussed in further detail under Note 2 - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 27 Table of Contents In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders of other companies have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of executive management from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation. If securities analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they downgrade our stock or our sector, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Common Stock relies in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. We do not control these analysts. In addition, some financial analysts may have limited expertise with our model and operations. Furthermore, if one or more of the analysts who do cover us downgrade our stock or industry, or the stock of any of our competitors, or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to publish reports on us regularly, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. There can be no assurance that we will continue to declare cash dividends. On March 13, 2024, we announced the initiation of our first-ever quarterly cash dividend. The payment of any cash dividends in the future is subject to financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in current or future financing instruments, provisions of applicable law, and other factors our Board deems relevant, and our Board continuing to determine that the declaration of dividends are in the best interests of our stockholders. We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay dividends. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient, payment of declared dividends could be left unpaid. The declaration and payment of any dividend may be discontinued or reduced at any time, and there can be no assurance that we will declare cash dividends in the future in any particular amounts, or at all. To the extent that expectations by market participants regarding the potential payment, or amount, of any regular dividend prove to be incorrect, the price of our common stock may be materially and negatively affected, and investors that bought shares of our common stock based on those expectations may suffer a loss on their investment. There can be no assurance that the declaration and payment of dividends will be fully consummated or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, by us or our stockholders in the public market could cause the market price for our Common Stock to decline. The mass sale of shares of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could harm the prevailing market price of shares of our Common Stock. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might impede our ability to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that it deems appropriate. In particular, the shares of our Common Stock reserved for future issuance under our Omnibus Incentive Plan will become eligible for sale in the public market once those shares are issued, subject to provisions relating to various vesting agreements, lock-up agreements (if any) and, in some cases, limitations on volume and manner of sale applicable to affiliates under Rule 144, as applicable, and the general availability of Rule 144 to such affiliates. A total of 7,725,000 shares of our Common Stock were reserved for issuance under our Omnibus Incentive Plan at inception. In the future, we may also issue our securities in connection with investments or acquisitions. The amount of shares of our Common Stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of our then-outstanding shares of Common Stock. Any issuance of additional securities in connection with investments or acquisitions may result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Certain of our stockholders may engage in business activities that compete with us or otherwise conflict with our interests. Certain of our stockholders are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Our Charter provides that none of the stockholder parties, any of their respective affiliates or any director who is not employed by us (including any non-employee director who serves as one of our officers in both his director and officer capacities) or his or her affiliates will have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. The stockholder parties also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. 28 Table of Contents We are an emerging growth company, and the reduced disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies may make our Common Stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and may remain an emerging growth company for up to five years following our initial public offering. For so long as we remain an emerging growth company, we are permitted and plan to rely on exemptions from certain disclosure requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. These exemptions include not being required to comply with the auditor attestation requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404, not being required to comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the audit and the financial statements, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. As a result, the information we provide to stockholders will be different than the information that is available with respect to other public companies. For example, in the proxy statement for the 2024 Annual Meeting, we will not include all of the executive compensation related information that would be required if we were not an emerging growth company. We cannot predict whether investors will find our Common Stock less attractive if we rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our Common Stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our Common Stock, and our stock price may be more volatile. We will remain an emerging growth company until the earlier of (i) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following the fifth anniversary of the completion of the IPO, or (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.235 billion, (ii) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the prior three-year period and (iii) the date on which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC. In addition, the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company can take advantage of an extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards. This allows an emerging growth company to delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards. An active, liquid trading market for our Common Stock may not be sustained, which may make selling the Common Stock you purchased more difficult. We cannot predict the extent to which investor interest in us will sustain a trading market or how active and liquid that market would remain. If an active and liquid trading market is not sustained, you may have difficulty selling any shares of our Common Stock that you purchase at a price above the price you purchased it or at all. The failure of an active and liquid trading market to continue would likely have a material adverse effect on the value of our Common Stock. An inactive market may also impair our ability to raise capital to continue to fund operations by selling shares and may impair our ability to acquire other companies or technologies by using our shares as consideration. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions of our Charter and Bylaws may have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, defer or prevent a merger, acquisition, tender offer, takeover attempt or other change of control transaction that a stockholder might consider in its best interest, including those attempts that might result in a premium over the market price for the shares held by our stockholders. These provisions provide for, among other things: the ability of our Board to issue one or more series of preferred stock; advance notice for nominations of directors by stockholders and for stockholders to include matters to be considered at our annual meetings; certain limitations on convening special stockholder meetings; limiting the ability of stockholders to act by written consent; providing that our Board is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our Bylaws; 29 Table of Contents the removal of directors only for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of holders of at least a majority of the shares of Common Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; and that certain provisions may be amended only by the affirmative vote of at least 66.7% of the shares of Common Stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors. These anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if the third-partys offer may be considered beneficial by many of our stockholders. As a result, our stockholders may be limited in their ability to obtain a premium for their shares. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. Our Charter designates the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or stockholders. Our Charter provides that, subject to limited exceptions, any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director, officer, stockholder or employee to us or our stockholders, (iii) action asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our Charter or Bylaws, or (iv) action asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be exclusively brought in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, another state or federal court located within the State of Delaware. Our Charter provides that the federal district courts of the U.S. shall be the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the exclusive forum provision shall not apply to claims seeking to enforce any liability or duty created by the Exchange Act. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of our capital stock shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of our Charter described above. This choice of forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our Charter inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO PRIVACY Privacy concerns could limit our ability to collect and leverage our user data and disclosure of user data could adversely impact our business and reputation. In the ordinary course of business and in particular in connection with content acquisition and merchandising our service to our users, we collect and utilize personal data supplied by or obtained from our users. We are subject to laws, rules and regulations in the United States and in other jurisdictions relating to the privacy and security of personal information, including, but not limited to, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation or the GDPR, the United Kingdoms GDPR, the U.S. Video Privacy Protection Act (VPPA), the U.S. Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) (as amended by the California Privacy Rights Act (CPRA)) and other state laws designed primarily to protect consumers personal data as collected online. Credit card networks may also require us to employ certain security and privacy controls, and failure to comply with these obligations may lead to significant liabilities. The GDPR imposes strict requirements for processing personal data of individuals within the European Economic Area (EEA). Companies subject to the GDPR have substantial data protection obligations and face significant risk, including potential fines for noncompliance. In addition, the transfer of personal data from the EU and the UK to countries such as the United States, which have not been granted adequacy status for EU or UK GDPR purposes, are impermissible absent commitments by the receiving party to protect the data on terms substantially equivalent to those prescribed by the GDPR, generally made in contracts between the data transferring entity in the EU/UK and the data recipient in the inadequate jurisdiction. Given our receipt of personal data in United States, these requirements complicate our operations and make them more expensive to implement. 30 Table of Contents Within the United States, we and several of our competitors have been sued and/or threatened with arbitration under the VPPA, a statute enacted in 1988 to prohibit video rental stores from disclosing customers video rental records without the customers consent. We cannot reliably predict the courts or arbitrators' views of the theories asserted in the cases brought against online streaming services under the VPPA, and thus we cannot predict the likely outcome of the claims against ourselves and other streaming services that are defendants in these cases. The plaintiffs in these cases are seeking damages for class members, including statutory damages of up to $2,500 per violation, as well as other potential relief. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) has in recent years increased its focus on data privacy and security and used its broad authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to sue companies for allegedly unfair and/or deceptive practices involving personally identifiable data. Among other claims, the FTC has asserted that the sharing of website and mobile application users IP addresses or browsing history without user consent constitutes an unfair and/or deceptive practice. The FTC has imposed consent orders on defendants in such cases that include prohibitions on sharing any personal information with third parties for advertising purposes, and as part of one recent consent order, obtained a fine from the defendant for $7.8 million. With respect to state law in the United States, the CCPAs amendment by the CPRA has resulted in significant new compliance obligations for companies that collect personal information about California residents. The CCPA provides for civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action with statutory damages for certain data security breaches, which may increase the frequency and likelihood of data breach litigation. The statute is now enforceable by a new California data protection agency, the California Privacy Protection Agency, which has issued detailed implementing regulations and signaled intent to use its enforcement authority aggressively. The Agencys latest set of regulations are detailed and complex, and create significant administrative and operational burdens for our Company. Since the enactment of the CCPA in 2018, more than a dozen other U.S. states have enacted similar laws to protect consumers personal information. Although these laws have common objectives, they also have many differences and apply based on specific, state-by-state, jurisdictional parameters. Compliance with these various laws is and will continue to be a challenge, which will be exacerbated as additional states adopt their own data privacy laws and regulations. Both within and outside of the United States, the data protection regulatory landscape is rapidly evolving. Given the rapid expansion of state, federal and foreign laws, requirements and regulations governing the collection, use, disclosure, retention, and security of personal data, implementation standards and enforcement practices are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. We cannot yet determine the impact future laws, regulations, standards, or perception of their requirements may have on our business. Among the possible impacts could be: limitations on our ability to operate in certain jurisdictions; restrictions on our practices that involve collecting and using personal information, contractual requirements, liability exposure, and the need for investments in data protection measures.. The cost of compliance with these laws, regulations and standards is high and is likely to increase in the future. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with data privacy laws or regulations, or related contractual or other obligations, or any perceived privacy rights violation, could lead to investigations, claims, and proceedings by governmental entities and private parties, damages for contract breach, and other significant costs, penalties, and other liabilities, as well as harm to our reputation and market position. Other businesses have been criticized by privacy groups and governmental bodies for attempts to link personal identities and other information to data collected on the internet regarding users browsing and other habits. Increased regulation of data utilization practices, including new and evolving laws globally, self-regulation, or findings under existing laws that limit our ability to collect, transfer and use information and other data, could have an adverse effect on our business. In addition, if we were to disclose information and other data about our users in a manner that was objectionable to them, our business reputation could be adversely affected, and we could face potential legal claims, reputational loss, or enforcement actions that could impact our operating results. Internationally, we may become subject to additional and/or more stringent legal obligations concerning our treatment of customer and other personal information, and data generally, such as laws regarding data localization and/or restrictions on data export. Failure to comply with these obligations could subject us to liability, and to the extent that we need to alter our business model or practices to adapt to these obligations, we could incur additional expenses. 31 Table of Contents Our reputation and relationships with users would be harmed if our user data, particularly billing data, were to be accessed by unauthorized persons. We maintain personal data regarding our users, including names and email addresses. This data is maintained on our own systems as well as that of third parties we use in our operations. With respect to billing data, such as credit card numbers, we and our subscribers rely on third parties to collect and secure such information. We take measures to protect against unauthorized intrusion into our users data. Despite these measures we, our payment processing services or other third-party services we use such as AWS, Stripe or PayPal, could experience an unauthorized intrusion into our users data. We also may be required to notify regulators about any actual or perceived data breach (including the EU Lead Data Protection Authority) as well as the individuals who are affected by the incident within strict time periods. In the event of such a breach, current and potential users may become unwilling to provide the information to us necessary for them to become users. Additionally, we could face legal claims or regulatory fines or penalties for such a breach. The costs relating to any data breach could be material, even though we currently carry insurance against the risk of a data breach. We also maintain employment and personal information concerning our employees. Should an unauthorized intrusion into our users or employees data occur, our business could be adversely affected and our broader reputation with respect to data protection could be negatively impacted. See Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized access, harm to our reputation, disclosure or destruction of data, including user and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. RISKS RELATED TO HUMAN RESOURCES We may lose key employees or may be unable to hire qualified employees, and the failure to maintain and improve our company culture may adversely affect our business. We rely on the continued service of our senior management and other key individuals, our Chairman and the founder of our predecessor CuriosityStream LLC, John Hendricks, and our President and Chief Executive Officer, Clint Stinchcomb, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In our industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel, which may be disruptive to our operations. Our effort to retain and develop personnel may also result in significant additional expenses, which could affect our profitability. In addition, there may be changes in our management team that may be disruptive to our business. In 2022, we experienced the turnover of our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Strategy Officer. If our management team, including any new hires we make, fails to work together effectively and to execute our plans and strategies on a timely basis, our business could be harmed. If we experience high executive turnover, fail to adapt our business practices to industry expectations, fail to implement succession plans for key employees, encounter difficulties associated with the transition of members of our management team, are not successful in recruiting new personnel or in retaining and motivating existing personnel, in instilling our culture in new employees, or maintaining and improving our culture as we grow, our operations may be disrupted, which could adversely affect our results of operations. During 2023, we initiated a plan to eliminate 20 full time positions or about 30% of our December 31, 2022, workforce. These reductions may negatively affect our culture or create uncertainty regarding our future operations or employment needs, and may therefore limit our ability to retain or hire qualified personnel or may contribute to the unplanned loss of highly skilled employees through attrition. 32 Table of Contents GENERAL RISK FACTORS Our Private Placement Warrants are accounted for as liabilities and the changes in value of our Private Placement Warrants could have a material effect on our financial results. Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 815-40, Derivatives and Hedging, Contracts in Entitys Own Equity, provides for the remeasurement of the fair value of such derivatives at each balance sheet date, with a resulting non-cash gain or loss related to the change in the fair value being recognized in earnings in the consolidated statements of operations. As a result of the recurring fair value measurement, our consolidated financial statements and results of operations may fluctuate quarterly, based on factors which are outside of our control. Due to the recurring fair value measurement, we recognize the non-cash gains or losses on our Private Placement Warrants each reporting period, and the amount of such gains or losses could be material. From time to time, we may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our managements time and attention. From time to time, we may be subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. As we have grown, we have seen a rise in the number of litigation matters brought against us. These matters have included or could in the future include patent infringements, copyright infringement and other claims related to our content, use of music, employment claims, claims about our platforms compliance with disability accommodation, data collection and privacy law, as well as consumer and securities class actions, each of which are typically expensive to defend. Litigation disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, result in content unavailability, service disruptions and otherwise occupy a significant amount of our managements time and attention, any of which could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company. We are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, NASDAQs listing requirements and other applicable securities laws and regulations, and, as a result, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur prior to becoming a public company. The expenses incurred by public companies for reporting and corporate governance purposes have generally been increasing. We expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly. The demands associated with being a public company may disrupt regular operations of our business by diverting the attention of some of our senior management team away from revenue producing activities to management and administrative oversight, adversely affecting our ability to attract and complete business opportunities and increasing the difficulty in both retaining professionals and managing and growing our businesses. Furthermore, if we are unable to satisfy our obligations as a public company, we could be subject to delisting of our Common Stock, fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. Any of these effects could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Compliance obligations under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require substantial financial and management resources. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls. For as long as we remain an emerging growth company, we will not be required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement on our internal control over financial reporting. However, in the event we are deemed to be an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer or otherwise no longer qualify as an emerging growth company, we will be required to comply with the independent registered public accounting firm attestation requirement on our internal control over financial reporting. The maintenance of the internal control system to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may impose obligations on us and require substantial additional financial and management resources. Further, a material weakness in our disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting has been discovered in the past and may be discovered in the future. We cannot assure you that there will not be additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting now or in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines that we have a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, 33 Table of Contents investors may lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our securities could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C. CYBERSECURITY We have established a comprehensive, enterprise-wide information security program designed to identify, protect against, detect, respond to, and manage reasonably foreseeable cybersecurity risks and threats. This program is seamlessly integrated into our overall risk management and internal control systems, subject to regular reviews by senior management. It significantly enhances the security, confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the personal and sensitive information we collect, create, use, and maintain. By conducting regular risk assessments, we believe we effectively manage both internal and external cybersecurity threats. Our cybersecurity strategy is specifically tailored to our organization's size, scope, and business needs, emphasizing the protection of customer and employee data. Our security infrastructure includes advanced tools and protocols, such as firewall protections, secure user authentication, and up-to-date antivirus and internet security software, which we believe are fundamental components of our operational protocols designed to mitigate vulnerabilities and efficiently address security incidents. We also assess and manage cybersecurity risks associated with our third-party service providers. We require the implementation of security measures that align with our established security policies and protocols as well as compliance with applicable legal requirements. The ongoing improvement of our cybersecurity measures is overseen by our Vice President of Engineering, who is part of our Chief Operating Officer organization and manages the Information Technology team, and the designated Data Security Coordinator, encompassing regular program reviews, risk assessments, and employee training sessions to fortify our proactive security posture. We do not employ or engage any third parties to assist with cybersecurity consulting or monitoring other than technical support teams from our application vendors. In the normal course of business, we proactively manage and monitor cybersecurity activities. To date, these efforts have successfully prevented any incidents that could materially affect our business strategy, operational results, or financial condition. We remain vigilant and are not currently aware of any threats that pose a material risk. We believe our detailed incident response procedures enable us to effectively manage and mitigate the impacts of security breaches. Continuous monitoring and post-incident analysis further refine our security strategies, enhancing our protective measures. Our Board and the Audit Committee provide oversight over our cybersecurity efforts and stay regularly informed on cybersecurity matters, including emerging risks and mitigation strategies, to ensure informed governance over our enterprise risk assessments and cybersecurity approach. Cybersecurity matters are discussed regularly with senior management, and any significant cybersecurity events are promptly reported to the Board. For additional information about cybersecurity risks, see Risk Factors, Any significant disruption in or unauthorized access to our computer systems or those of third parties that we utilize in our operations, including those relating to cybersecurity or arising from cyber-attacks, could result in a loss or degradation of service, unauthorized access, harm to our reputation, disclosure or destruction of data, including user and corporate information, or theft of intellectual property, including digital content assets, which could adversely impact our business. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our principal operational offices are located in Silver Spring, Maryland, where we lease approximately 15,500 square feet of office space, under a lease expiring in February 2033, pursuant to which we currently pay approximately $45,000 per month escalating annually to $57,000 per month through the end of the lease term. We believe that this facility is adequate to meet our current and near-term needs. 34 Table of Contents Our computing needs are primarily serviced from our cloud infrastructure provided by Amazon Web Services. We retain backup copies of our content on our own data center infrastructure. The backup sites enable additional fault tolerance and will support our continued growth. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we may become involved in legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of our business. We are not presently a party to any legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, we believe would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 35 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES MARKET INFORMATION Our Common Stock and Warrants are traded on NASDAQ under the symbols CURI and CURIW, respectively. DIVIDENDS We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our Common Stock from the time we incorporated through December 31, 2023. On March 13, 2024, the Board declared a regular quarterly cash dividend of $0.025 per share of Common Stock, equivalent to $0.10 per share of Common Stock on an annual basis. The first cash dividend will be paid on April 30, 2024, to all holders of record of Common Stock at the close of business on April 12, 2024. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of and subject to future declaration by the Board and will depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, restrictions contained in current or future financing instruments, provisions of applicable law, and other factors our Board deems relevant. HOLDERS As of March 18, 2024, there were approximately 206 holders of record of our Common Stock, and 9 holders of record of our Warrants. The actual number of holders of our Common Stock is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares of our Common Stock are held in street name by banks, brokers and other nominees. RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES None. USE OF PROCEEDS Not Applicable. ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES None. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 36 Table of Contents ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis provides information that management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our results of operations and financial condition. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons, including the risks faced by us described in Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, us, our, and the Company are intended to mean the business and operations of CuriosityStream Inc. OVERVIEW Founded by John Hendricks, founder of the Discovery Channel and former Chairman of Discovery Communications, CuriosityStream is a media and entertainment company that offers premium video and audio programming across the principal categories of factual entertainment, including science, history, society, nature, lifestyle and technology. Our mission is to provide premium factual entertainment that informs, enchants and inspires. We seek to meet demand for high-quality factual entertainment via SVOD platforms, content licensing, bundled content licenses for SVOD and linear offerings, talks and courses and partner bulk sales. The main sources of our revenue are: 1.Subscription and license fees earned from our Direct-to-Consumer business and Partner Direct subscribers ("Direct Business"), 2.License fees from content licensing arrangements ("Content Licensing"), 3.Bundled license fees from distribution affiliates (Bundled Distribution), 4.Subscriber fees from our Enterprise business ("Enterprise"), and 5.Other revenue, including advertising and sponsorships ("Other"). We operate our business as a single operating segment that provides premium streaming content through multiple channels, including the use of various applications, partnerships and affiliate relationships. CuriosityStreams award-winning content library features more than 17,000 programs that explore topics ranging from space engineering to ancient history to the rise of Wall Street and includes shows and series from leading nonfiction producers. Our library includes: An extensive catalog of originally produced and owned content of approximately 7,000 short-, mid- and long-form video and audio titles, including Curiosity University recorded lectures that are led by some of the most acclaimed college and university professors in the world. A rotating catalog of nearly 7,000 internationally licensed videos and audio programs. More than 6,000 on-demand and ad-free productions available on-demand through our SVOD offerings. Each week we launch new video titles, which are available on-demand in high- or ultra-high definition. Through new and long-standing international partnerships, we have localized a large portion of our video library from English to ten different languages. 37 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table represents a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, and the discussion that follows compares the financial results for year ended December 31, 2023, to the year ended December 31, 2022: Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change (in thousands) 2023 2022 Revenues Direct Business $ 34,592 61 % $ 34,120 44 % $ 472 1.4 % Content Licensing 14,047 25 % 24,691 32 % (10,644) (43 %) Bundled Distribution 6,316 11 % 11,726 15 % (5,410) (46 %) Enterprise 141 % 5,520 7 % (5,379) (97 %) Other 1,793 3 % 1,986 3 % (193) (10 %) Total revenues $ 56,889 100 % $ 78,043 100 % $ (21,154) (27 %) Operating expenses Cost of revenues $ 35,553 35 % $ 51,536 39 % (15,983) (31 %) General and administrative 29,447 29 % 37,479 28 % (8,032) (21 %) Advertising and marketing 17,390 17 % 40,709 31 % (23,319) (57 %) Impairment of content assets 18,970 19 % 0 % 18,970 n/m* Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets % 3,603 3 % (3,603) n/m* Total operating expenses $ 101,360 100 % $ 133,327 100 % $ (31,967) (24 %) Operating loss (44,471) (55,284) 10,813 (20 %) Other income (expense) Change in fair value of warrant liability 213 5,404 (5,191) (96 %) Interest and other income 1,272 176 1,096 623 % Equity interests loss (5,404) (846) (4,558) 539 % Loss before income taxes $ (48,390) $ (50,550) $ 2,160 (4 %) Provision for income taxes 506 367 139 38 % Net loss $ (48,896) $ (50,917) $ 2,021 (4 %) * Percentage not meaningful Operating loss for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, was $44.5 million and $55.3 million, respectively. The decline in operating loss of $10.8 million, or 20%, primarily resulted from the decreases to our operating expenses of $32.0 million, or 24%, which more than offset the decline in revenues of $21.2 million, or 27%, for the year ended December 31, 2023, compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. Net loss for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, was $48.9 million and $50.9 million, respectively, a decrease in net loss of $2.0 million, or 4%. The $10.8 million decline in operating loss for 2023 was almost entirely offset by a decline in change in value of warrant liability and an increase in our equity interest loss. Our future operating results and cash flows are dependent upon a number of opportunities, challenges, and other factors, including our ability to efficiently grow our subscriber base, increase our prices and expand our service offerings to maximize subscriber lifetime value. Revenue Since the Company was founded in 2015, we have generated the majority of our revenues from consumers directly accessing our content in the form of monthly or annual subscription plans. 38 Table of Contents For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, revenues totaled $56.9 million and $78.0 million, respectively, a decrease of $21.2 million, or 27%. This decline was primarily driven by declines in Content Licensing, Enterprise services and Bundled Distribution of $10.6 million, $5.4 million and $5.4 million, respectively, while our Direct Business revenue increased by $0.5 million or approximately 1%. Companies in the media industry utilize trade and barter agreements in the normal course of business to reduce cash outlays for new content assets or other expenditures by exchanging existing content assets, advertising and other services. In the second quarter of 2023, we began entering into trade and barter transactions primarily for the purpose of exchanging content assets through licensing agreements with media counterparties, reported as content licensing revenue. Certain transactions may also include the exchange of advertising, whereby we exchange media campaigns or other promotional services, reported as other revenue. For more information, see Note 5 - Revenue in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Direct Business Our Direct Business revenue is derived from consumers subscribing directly through our O&O Consumer Service and App Services and through Partner Direct relationships. Our O&O Consumer Service is available in more than 175 countries to any household with a broadband connection. Our App Services enable access to CuriosityStream on almost every major consumer device, including streaming media players like Roku, Apple TV and Amazon Fire TV, major smart TV brands (e.g., LG, Vizio, Samsung) and gaming consoles. We are currently in the process of raising the prices for our legacy subscribers in our U.S. dollar-based markets, which represent the vast majority of our Direct Business revenue. These legacy subscribers previously paid $2.99 per month or $19.99 per year. As of March 27, 2023, we increased our standard pricing for new subscribers to this service to $4.99 per month or $39.99 per year. We also provide a Smart Bundle service for $9.99 per month or $69.99 per year. Our Smart Bundle membership currently includes our standard service, plus subscriptions to third-party platforms Tastemade, Topic, Kidstream (added in January 2024), SommTV, Da Vinci Kids, and our Curiosity University stand-alone service. Our Smart Bundle pricing remains unchanged. However, we may in the future increase the price of these existing subscription plans, which may have a positive effect on our revenue from this line of our business. The multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs), virtual MVPDs (vMVPDs) and digital distributor partners making up our Partner Direct Business pay us a license fee for sales to individuals who subscribe to CuriosityStream via the partners respective platforms. We have affiliate agreement relationships with, and our service is available directly from, major MVPDs that include Comcast, Cox, Dish and vMVPDs and digital distributors that include Amazon Prime Video Channels, Apple Channel, Roku Channel, Sling TV and YouTube TV. The following table details our Direct Business for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022: Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change (in thousands) 2023 2022 Direct-to-Consumer: O&O Consumer Service $ 26,502 77 % $ 25,549 75 % $ 953 4 % App Services 3,384 10 % 3,940 12 % (556) (14 %) Total Direct-to-Consumer 29,886 86 % 29,489 86 % 397 1 % Partner Direct Business 4,706 14 % 4,631 14 % 75 2 % Total Direct Business $ 34,592 100 % $ 34,120 100 % $ 472 3 % For the year ended December 31, 2023, our O&O Consumer Service increased by $1.0 million, or 4%, which was partially offset by a decline in App Services of $0.6 million, or 14%. Although our DTC subscriber count declined during 2023, our O&O Consumer Service revenue reflected the higher pricing that we began to roll out ahead of higher pricing for App Services during the year. 39 Table of Contents Content Licensing Through our Content Licensing business, we license to certain media companies a collection of existing titles from our content library in a traditional content licensing deal. We also pre-sell selected rights (such as in territories or on platforms that are lower priority for us) to content we create before we even begin production. This latter model reduces risk in our content development decisions and creates content licensing revenue. The following table details our Content Licensing results for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022: Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change (in thousands) 2023 2022 Library sales* $ 11,739 84 % $ 6,131 25 % $ 5,608 91 % Presales 2,308 16 % 18,560 75 % (16,252) (88 %) Total Content Licensing $ 14,047 100 % $ 24,691 100 % $ (10,644) (43 %) * The 2023 amount includes $9.9 million from trade and barter transactions. For the year ended December 31, 2023, Content Licensing reflected our change in focus as we attempted to acquire content for lower costs during the year. Library sales were higher by 91%, due mostly to trade and barter transactions whereby we licensed our content to counterparties in the media industry and acquired their content for no cash outlay. Presales declined by 88% as we began to focus more on acquiring content for lower investment cost while reducing our overall spending on new content. Bundled Distribution Our Bundled Distribution business includes affiliate relationships with our Bundled MVPD Partners and vMVPDs, which are broadband and wireless companies in the U.S. and international territories to whom we can offer a broad scope of rights, including 24/7 linear channels, our video-on-demand content library, mobile rights and pricing and packaging flexibility, in exchange for an annual fixed fee or fee per subscriber. For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, our Bundled Distribution revenue was $6.3 million and $11.7 million, respectively. This 46% decline was primarily due to the non-renewal of a bundled distribution agreement in the third quarter of 2022. Enterprise Our Enterprise business is comprised primarily of providing subscriptions in bulk to companies and organizations that in turn offer these subscriptions to their employees and members as an employment benefit or gift of curiosity. For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, our Enterprise revenue was $0.1 million and $5.5 million, respectively. This decline was due to the expiration of certain Enterprise subscription agreements. Other We provide advertising and sponsorships services through developing integrated digital brand partnerships designed to offer the chance to be associated with CuriosityStream content in a variety of forms, including short- and long-form program integration; branded social media promotional videos; broadcast advertising spots in our video and audio programs that are made available on our linear programming channels or in front of the paywall; and our increasing focus on digital display ads while delivering our content through advertising-based video-on-demand (AVOD), transactional video-on-demand (TVOD), free advertising-supported streaming television (FAST), YouTube and other similar distribution channels. In the future, we hope to continue developing integrated digital brand partnerships with advertisers. These sponsorship campaigns offer companies the chance to be associated with CuriosityStream content in the forms described above. We believe the impressions accumulated in these multi-faceted campaigns would roll up to verifiable metrics for the clients. For the year ended December 31, 2023, other revenue was $1.8 million, a decline of $0.2 million or 10% from 2022. This decline was largely due to the expiration of certain marketing arrangements during 2022 and the early part of 2023, partially offset by new marketing services we provided as part of trade and barter transactions, which totaled $1.1 million for 2023. 40 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Our primary operating costs relate to the cost of producing and acquiring our content, the costs of advertising and marketing our service, personnel costs, and distribution fees. For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, our operating expenses were 101.4 million and 133.3 million, respectively, a decrease of $32.0 million, or 24%. Cost of Revenues Cost of revenues encompasses content amortization, distribution fees, revenue sharing arrangements, hosting and streaming delivery costs, payment processing costs, commission costs, and subtitling and broadcast costs. Producing and co-producing content and commissioned content is generally more costly than content acquired through licenses. Distribution fees include payment processing fees and revenue share arrangements with Smart Bundle and digital distributor partners, as well as fees owed to the Spiegel Venture related to our German SVOD service. We pay a fixed percentage distribution fee to our partners for subscribers accessing our platform via App Services to compensate these partners for access to their customer and subscriber bases. The MVPD, vMVPD and digital distributor partners making up our Partner Direct business pay us a license fee, and host and stream our content to their customers via their own platforms, such as set top boxes in the case of most MVPDs. We do not incur billing, streaming or backend costs associated with content distribution through our MVPD, vMVPD and digital distributor partners. The following table details cost of revenues for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022: Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change (in thousands) 2023 2022 Content amortization $ 22,905 64 % $ 39,291 76 % $ (16,386) (42 %) Other* 12,648 36 % 12,245 24 % $ 403 3 % Total cost of revenues $ 35,553 100 % $ 51,536 100 % $ (15,983) (31 %) * Includes commissions, distribution, production and broadcast, promotions and sponsorships, and other expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2023, cost of revenues decreased to $35.6 million from $51.5 million, a 31% reduction. This decrease was mostly driven by a 42% decline in content amortization due to fewer presale agreements, as discussed above, a reduction in content acquisitions and releases during the year and the content impairment that we recorded in the third quarter of 2023. This decline was partially offset by an increase in other cost of revenues, resulting mainly from new promotional arrangements that we entered into during the year. Advertising and Marketing Our advertising and marketing expenditures are a primary operating cost for our business. While these costs may fluctuate based on advertising and marketing objectives, we generally focus marketing dollars on efficient customer acquisition methods. For the year ended December 31, 2023, advertising and marketing expenses decreased to $17.4 million from $40.7 million in 2022. This decrease of $23.3 million, or 57%, is primarily due to fewer contractual marketing commitments during 2023, as we ended partnerships with significant marketing commitments and refocused on lower-cost paid-marketing campaigns. General and Administrative Our general and administrative costs are associated with certain administrative functions, including corporate governance, executive management, information technology, finance and human resources. These costs consist largely of compensation expense, subscriptions that support our business, professional services, licenses and rent. While personnel levels may fluctuate based on our needs, we tend to focus on hiring and retaining revenue-generating personnel, such as sales staff and roles that support the improvement, maintenance and marketing of our different revenue streams. 41 Table of Contents The following table details general and administrative costs for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022: Year Ended December 31, $ Change % Change (in thousands) 2023 2022 Payroll and related $ 12,186 41 % $ 15,016 40 % $ (2,830) (19 %) Professional services 6,295 21 % 8,145 22 % (1,850) (23 %) Stock-based compensation 3,999 14 % 6,644 18 % (2,645) (40 %) Restructuring1 819 3 % % 819 n/m2 Other3 6,148 21 % 7,674 20 % (1,526) (20 %) Total general and administrative $ 29,447 100 % $ 37,479 100 % (8,032) (21 %) 1 Comprised primarily of severance and workforce optimization costs resulting from a December 2023 reduction in workforce. 2 Percentage not meaningful. 3 Includes facilities costs, depreciation and amortization, insurance, technology and subscriptions, travel and other expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2023, general and administrative expenses decreased to $29.4 million from $37.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2022. This decrease of $8.0 million, or 21%, was primarily the result of lower stock-based compensation and payroll and related costs of a $2.6 million and $2.8 million, driven by our smaller average workforce size in 2023 as well as reduced incentive compensation. Professional services costs also declined 23% as we streamlined various outside services during the year and brought certain finance and operations functions internal. Impairment of Content Assets, Goodwill and Intangible Assets The Companys primary business model is subscription-based as opposed to a model based on generating revenues at a specific title level. Content assets are predominantly monetized as a group and therefore are reviewed in aggregate at a group level when an event or change in circumstances indicates a change in the expected usefulness of the content or that the fair value may be less than unamortized cost. If such changes are identified, the aggregated content library will be stated at the lower of unamortized cost or fair value. In addition, unamortized costs are written off for content assets that have been, or are expected to be abandoned. For a discussion of the accounting policies for content impairment write-down and management estimates involved therein, see Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates below. During the three months ended September 30, 2023, we identified certain indicators of impairment related to content assets and performed an analysis of these assets to assess if their fair value was less than their unamortized costs. Refer to Note 4 - Balance Sheet Components for further discussion. As a result of this analysis, we incurred an impairment charge of $19.0 million related to our content assets for the year ended December 31, 2023. In comparison, no such impairment of content assets was incurred during 2022. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2023, we separately performed an analysis of our investments in equity method investees to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment existed.During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a goodwill and intangibles asset impairment charge of $3.6 million as a result of the impairment analyses performed. The impairment charge was applied against the entire balance of goodwill and substantially all of the intangible assets balance. 42 Table of Contents Fair Value of Warrant Liability, Interest and Other Income and Equity Method Investment Loss Change in Fair Value of Warrant Liability The fair value of our warrant liability is estimated using the Black-Scholes valuation model that takes into account a number of economic assumptions, including the market price of our Common Stock and its expected volatility. Changes in these inputs from period to period may significantly affect changes in fair values. For the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company recognized a $0.2 million gain in the fair value of our warrant liability, compared to a $5.4 million gain recognized in 2022. These gains are primarily the result of decreases in the fair value of the liabilities related to the Private Placement Warrants for the respective periods. For additional information, including the significant assumptions used to determine fair value, see Note 7 - Stockholders Equity, in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and Other Income For the year ended December 31, 2023, interest and other income increased by $1.1 million, primarily due to our cash and cash equivalents accounts benefiting from higher market interest rates. Equity Method Investment Loss During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded a $5.4 million equity interests loss related to the equity investments in the Spiegel Venture and Nebula, compared to a $0.8 million loss in 2022. The increase in loss in 2023 was primarily the result of impairment charges we recorded during the year for the Spiegel Venture and Nebula of $2.0 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Income Taxes For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, we had a provision for income taxes of $0.5 million and $0.4 million, respectively, due to generating losses before income taxes in each year. The provision for income taxes is primarily related to foreign withholding income taxes. Our provision for income taxes differs from the federal statutory rate primarily due to the Company being in a full valuation allowance position and not recognizing a tax benefit attributable to generated losses for either federal or state income tax purposes. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity As of December 31, 2023, our cash and cash equivalents, including restricted cash, totaled $38.2 million. Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of investments in institutional money market funds and short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and money market fund asset managers with whom we invest our funds, and we maintain a level of liquidity sufficient to allow us to meet our cash needs in both the short term and long term. We believe that our current cash levels, including investments in money market funds that are readily convertible to cash, will be adequate to support our ongoing operations, capital expenditures and working capital for at least the next twelve months. We believe that we have access to additional funds in the short term and the long term, if needed, through the capital markets to obtain further financing. We use cash principally to acquire content, promote our service through advertising and marketing, and provide for working capital to operate our business. We have experienced significant net losses since our inception, and, given the significant operating and capital expenditures associated with our business plan, we anticipate that we will continue to incur net losses. As previously discussed, we began entering into trade and barter transactions in the second quarter of 2023 primarily for the purpose of exchanging content assets through licensing agreements with media counterparties. Our use of these transactions has enabled us to acquire quality content that we can monetize through various distribution channels while preserving our liquidity. 43 Table of Contents Cash Flow Analysis The following table presents our cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022: Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (16,172) $ (39,523) Net cash provided by investing activities 14,003 62,701 Net cash used in financing activities (123) (218) Net (decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (2,292) $ 22,960 Operating Activities Cash flow from operating activities primarily consists of net losses, changes to our content assets (including additions and amortization), and other working capital items. The following table presents a summary of our cash flows from operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022: Year Ended December 31, (in thousands) 2023 2022 Net loss (48,896) (50,917) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities Change in fair value of warrant liability (213) (5,404) Additions to content assets (18,316) (34,771) Change in content liabilities (2,455) (6,822) Amortization of content assets 22,905 39,291 Impairment of content assets, goodwill and intangible assets 18,970 3,603 Stock-based compensation 3,999 6,644 Equity interests loss 5,404 846 Other non-cash items 1,003 3,031 Changes in operating assets and liabilities 1,427 4,976 Net cash used in operating activities (16,172) (39,523) During the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, we recorded a net cash outflow from operating activities of $16.2 million and $39.5 million, respectively, or a decline in outflow in 2023 of $23.4 million, or 59%. Our 2023 net cash outflow was primarily due to the $48.9 million net loss, additions to content assets and change in content liabilities of $18.3 million and $2.5 million, respectively, as well as changes in accrued expenses and other liabilities and accounts payable of $4.5 million and $1.3 million, respectively. This was partially offset by noncash items such as amortization of content assets of $22.9 million, impairment of content assets of $19.0 million, stock-based compensation of $4.0 million and equity method investment loss of $5.4 million. Additionally, the change in accounts receivable was $6.1 million. Of the $18.3 million in additions to content assets for the year ended December 31, 2023, $9.5 million was attributable to non-cash trade and barter arrangements. For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash used by operating activities was primarily driven by our $50.9 million net loss, $6.4 million addback of net non-cash expenses net of content additions, and $5.0 million of net cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities. The most significant components of net non-cash expenses include amortization of content assets of $39.3 million and stock-based compensation expense of $6.6 million, substantially offset by additions to content assets of $34.8 million and the change in the fair value of warrant liability of $5.4 million. The components of changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily attributed to an increase in accounts receivable of $11.9 million and increase in other assets of $3.4 million, partially offset by a decrease in deferred revenue of $8.3 million, increase in accounts payable of $2.7 million and decrease in accrued expenses and other liabilities of $4.6 million. 44 Table of Contents Investing Activities Cash flow from investing activities consists of purchases, sales and maturities of investments, business acquisitions and equity investments and purchases of property and equipment. For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, we recorded net cash inflows from investing activities of $14.0 million and $62.7 million, respectively, or a decrease of cash inflow of $48.7 million, or 78%. Our 2023 cash inflow was primarily due to maturities of investments in debt securities of $15.0 million, offset by our investment in the Spiegel Venture of $1.0 million. For the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a net cash inflow from investing activities of $62.7 million. The net cash inflow provided by investing activities was primarily due to the sale and maturities of investments in debt securities of $66.8 million, partially offset by purchases of investments in debt securities of $1.5 million and investments in Nebula of $2.4 million. Financing Activities For the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022, net cash used in financing activities was $0.1 million and $0.2 million, respectively, primarily due to payments related to tax withholding. Capital Expenditures Going forward, we expect to continue making expenditures for additions to our content assets and purchases of property and equipment, although at a slower rate than in previous periods. The amount, timing and allocation of capital expenditures are largely discretionary and within managements control. Depending on market conditions, we may choose to defer a portion of our budgeted expenditures until later periods to achieve the desired balance between sources and uses of liquidity and prioritize capital projects that we believe have the highest expected returns and potential to generate cash flow. Subject to financing alternatives, we may also increase our capital expenditures significantly to take advantage of opportunities we consider to be attractive. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As of December 31, 2023, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operation is based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain amounts included in or affecting the financial statements presented in this Annual Report and related disclosures must be estimated, requiring management to make assumptions with respect to values or conditions which cannot be known with certainty at the time the financial statements are prepared. Management believes that the accounting policies set forth below comprise the most important critical accounting policies for the Company. A critical accounting policy is one which is both important to the portrayal of a companys financial condition and results of operations and requires managements most difficult, subjective or complex judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Management evaluates such policies on an ongoing basis, based upon historical results and experience, consultation with experts and other methods that management considers reasonable in the particular circumstances under which the judgments and estimates are made, as well as managements forecasts as to the manner in which such circumstances may change in the future. Content Assets The Company acquires, licenses and produces content, including original programming, in order to offer customers unlimited viewing of factual entertainment content. Content license terms generally include a fixed fee and specific windows of availability. Payments for content, including additions to content assets and the changes in related liabilities, are classified within Net cash used in operating activities on the consolidated statements of cash flows. Content acquired or licensed through trade and barter transactions is also reported within additions to content assets. 45 Table of Contents The Company recognizes its content assets as Content assets, net on the consolidated balance sheets. For licensed content, the Company capitalizes the fee per title and records a corresponding liability at the gross amount of the liability when the license period begins, the cost of the title is known, and the title is accepted and available for streaming. For productions, the Company capitalizes costs associated with the production, including development costs, direct costs and production overhead. Amortization of content assets is reported within Cost of revenues in the consolidated statements of operations. Based on factors including historical and estimated viewing patterns, the Company amortizes content assets on an accelerated basis in the initial two months after a title is published, as the Company has observed and expects more upfront viewing of content, generally as a result of additional marketing efforts. Furthermore, the amortization of produced content is more accelerated than that of licensed content. The Company reviews factors that impact the amortization of the content assets on a regular basis and the estimates related to these factors require considerable management judgment. The Company continues to review factors impacting the amortization of content assets on an ongoing basis and will also record amortization on an accelerated basis when there is more upfront use of a title, for instance due to significant content licensing. The Companys primary business model is subscription-based as opposed to a model based on generating revenues at a specific title level. Content assets are predominantly monetized as a group and therefore are reviewed in aggregate at a group level when an event or change in circumstances indicates a change in the expected usefulness of the content or that the fair value may be less than unamortized cost. If such changes are identified, the aggregated content library will be stated at the lower of unamortized cost or fair value. In addition, unamortized costs are written off for content assets that have been, or are expected to be abandoned. During the three months ended September 30, 2023, the Company assessed the fair value of its content assets as a result of identifying indicators of impairment related to those assets. The Company determined that the unamortized cost exceeded the fair value, and as such, the Company recorded a $19.0 million impairment of its content assets. Refer to Note 4 - Balance Sheet Components for further discussion of the results of these analyses. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisitions over the amount assigned to tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired less liabilities assumed. At least annually, in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist, management performs a review to determine if the carrying value of goodwill is impaired. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of fair value at the Companys reporting unit level, which is the same or one level below the operating segment level. The Company has determined that it has one reporting unit. The Company performs an initial assessment of qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events and circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of relevant events and circumstances, the Company determines that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value and there is no indication of impairment, no further testing is performed. However, if the Company concludes otherwise, an impairment test must be performed by estimating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing it with its carrying value, including goodwill. Intangible assets other than goodwill are carried at cost and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Amortization is recorded within general and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. The Company reviews identifiable finite-lived intangible assets to be held and used for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be recoverable. Determination of recoverability is based on the lowest level of identifiable estimated undiscounted cash flows resulting from use of the asset and its ultimate disposition. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on the amount by which the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value. 46 Table of Contents During the second quarter of 2022, the Company experienced a sustained decrease in its share price, and this triggering event was an indication that it was more likely than not that the fair value of the Companys single reporting unit was below its carrying value. The Company performed an interim goodwill impairment test of its goodwill as of June 30, 2022, and recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $2.8 million for the three months ended June 30, 2022, as the fair value of the reporting unit was less than the related carrying value. This charge was included in impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in the Companys consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. The determination of the fair value of the Companys reporting unit was based on a combination of the income and the market approach. The Company applied equal weighting to each of the approaches in determining the fair value of the reporting unit. Under the income approach, the Company utilized discounted cash flows of forecasted future cash flows based on future operational expectations and discounted these cash flows to reflect their relative risk. The cash flows used are consistent with those the Company uses in its internal planning, which reflect actual business trends experienced and the Companys long-term business strategy. Under the market approach, the Company utilized the guideline public company method and guideline transaction method to develop valuation multiples and compare the Company to similar publicly traded companies. The significant assumptions under each of the approaches include, among others: revenue projections (which are dependent on future customer subscriptions and content licensing agreements), operating expenses, discount rate, control premium and a terminal growth rate. The cash flows used to determine the fair values are dependent on a number of significant management assumptions, such as the Companys expectations of future performance and the expected future economic environment, which are partly based upon the Companys historical experience. The Company also considered its market capitalization in assessing the reasonableness of the reporting unit fair value. During the second quarter of 2022, the Company also identified the existence of impairment indicators with respect to certain of the Companys definite-lived intangible assets. As a result, the Company performed an impairment test by comparing the carrying values of the intangible assets to their respective fair values, which were determined based on forecasted future cash flows. As a result of this impairment test, the Company recorded an impairment charge of $0.8 million during the three months ended June 30, 2022, which was included within impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in the Companys consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022. In order to further validate the reasonableness of fair value as determined by the income and market approaches described above, a reconciliation to market capitalization is then performed by estimating a reasonable control premium and other market factors. Future changes in the judgments, assumptions and estimates that are used in the impairment testing for our asset group may result in significantly different estimates of fair value. Revenue Recognition The Companys performance obligations include: 1.Access to its SVOD platform on a subscription basis either directly or through a partner, whereby the performance obligation is satisfied as access is provided following any free trial period; 2.Access to the Companys content assets, whereby the performance obligation is satisfied as access to the content is provided; and 3.Licenses of specific program titles, whereby the performance obligation is satisfied as that content is made available for the customer to use. Subscriptions Direct-to-Consumer - O&O Consumer Service. The Company generates revenue from subscription fees from its O&O Consumer Service. CuriosityStream subscribers enter into month-to-month or annual subscriptions with the Company. The Company bills the monthly subscriber on each subscribers monthly anniversary date and recognizes the revenue ratably over each monthly membership period. The annual subscription fees are collected by the Company at the start of the annual subscription period and are recognized ratably over the subsequent twelve-month period. Revenues are presented net of the taxes that are collected from subscribers and remitted to governmental authorities. 47 Table of Contents The Company also provides a Smart Bundle membership that includes access to our standard service, as well as subscriptions to certain third-party platforms. The Company recognizes the gross subscription revenues when earned and simultaneously recognizes the corresponding fees for the third-party platforms as an expense. The Company is the principal in these relationships as it has control over providing the customer with access to the third-party platforms and the determination of the Smart Bundle pricing. Direct-to-Consumer - App Services. The Company also earns subscription revenues through its App Services. These subscriptions are similar to the O&O Service subscriptions, but are generated based on agreements with certain streaming media players as well as with Smart TV brands and gaming consoles. Under these agreements, the streaming media player typically bills the subscriber directly and then remits the collected subscriptions to the Company, net of a distribution fee. The Company recognizes the gross subscription revenues when earned and simultaneously recognizes the corresponding distribution fees as an expense. The Company is the principal in these relationships as the Company retains control over service delivery to its subscribers. Enterprise. The Company's Enterprise business is comprised primarily of selling subscriptions in bulk to companies and organizations that in turn offer these subscriptions to their employees and members as an employment benefit or gift of curiosity. License Fees Content Licensing.The Company has distribution agreements which grant a licensee limited distribution rights to the Companys programs for varying terms, generally in exchange for a fixed license fee. Revenue is recognized once the content is made available for the licensee to use. Partner Direct and Bundled Distribution.The Company generates license fee revenues from MVPDs such as Comcast and Cox as well as from vMVPDs such as Amazon Prime and Sling TV (MVPDs and vMVPDs are also referred to as affiliates). Under the terms of the agreements with these affiliates, the Company receives license fees based upon contracted programming rates and subscriber levels reported by the affiliates. In exchange, the Company licenses its content to the affiliates for distribution to their subscribers. The Company earns revenue under these agreements either based on the total number of subscribers multiplied by rates specified in the agreements or based on fixed fee arrangements. These revenues are recognized over the term of each agreement when earned. Trade and Barter Transactions In the second quarter of 2023, the Company began entering into trade and barter transactions. The primary purpose of the transactions is the exchange of content assets through licensing agreements with media counterparties, while certain transactions may also include the exchange of advertising, whereby the Company and its counterparty exchange media campaigns or other promotional services. The Company reviews each transaction to confirm that the content assets, advertising or other services it receives have economic substance, and records revenue in an amount equal to the fair value of what it receives and at the time that it completes its performance obligation. For advertising, the performance obligation is satisfied upon the Companys delivery of the media campaign or other service to the counterparty. For an exchange of content, the performance obligation is satisfied at the time the content is made available for the counterparty to use, which represents the point in time that control is transferred. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS The JOBS Act allows the Company, as an EGC, to delay adoption of new or revised accounting pronouncements applicable to public companies until such pronouncements are applicable to private companies. The Company has elected to use this extended transition period under the JOBS Act until such time as the Company is no longer considered to be an EGC. 48 Table of Contents Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02), which requires lessees to recognize lease assets and lease liabilities in the balance sheet for those leases classified as operating leases under current U.S. GAAP. ASU 2016-02 requires a lessee to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for each lease with a term longer than twelve months. The new guidance also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures related to the nature, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The Company adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2022, using a modified retrospective approach and electing to use the package of practical expedients permitted under the transition guidance, which allows for the carry forward of historical lease classification for existing leases on the adoption date and does not require the assessment of existing lease contracts to determine whether the contracts contain a lease or initial direct costs. Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted. The adoption of this standard resulted in the recognition of operating lease liabilities of $5.3 million, with corresponding right-of-use (ROU) assets in the amount of $4.0 million, net of existing deferred rent and lease incentives of $1.3 million. The Company did not have any finance lease liabilities as of the adoption date. There was no cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of accumulated deficit as of January 1, 2022. Adoption of this new guidance did not have a material impact on the consolidated statements of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 13 - Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the impact of adoption of Topic 842 on the Companys consolidated financial statements. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-13, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326) ("ASU 2016-02'). The amendments in this update introduced a new standard to replace the incurred loss impairment methodology under current GAAP with a methodology that reflects expected credit losses and requires consideration of a broader range of reasonable and supportable information to inform credit loss estimates. The Company determines its allowance for doubtful accounts based on historical loss experience, customer financial condition, and current economic conditions. The Company adopted the new standard effective January 1, 2023. This adoption did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial statements. Accounting Pronouncements Issued but not Adopted In November 2023, the FASB" issued ASU No. 2023-07 ("ASU 2023-07"), Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures, which requires public entities to disclose information about their reportable segments significant expenses and other segment items on an interim and annual basis. Public entities with a single reportable segment are required to apply the disclosure requirements in ASU 2023-07, as well as all existing segment disclosures and reconciliation requirements in ASC 280 on an interim and annual basis. ASU 2023-07 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and for interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2023-07. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09 ("ASU 2023-09"), Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures, which requires public entities, on an annual basis, to provide disclosure of specific categories in the rate reconciliation, as well as disclosure of income taxes paid disaggregated by jurisdiction. ASU 2023-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024, with early adoption permitted. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of adopting ASU 2023-09. ITEM 7.A