Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 23 Table of Contents D-WAVE QUANTUM INC.'S MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion is intended to assist you in understanding our present business and the results of operations together with our present financial condition. This section should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes contained in (Part I, Item I of this Report), as well as our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 18, 2023. In this section, unless otherwise specified, the terms we, our, us, D-Wave" or the "Company" refer to D-Wave Quantum Inc. and its subsidiaries following the closing of the Merger on August 5, 2022 (the "Closing") while "D-Wave Systems" refers to D-Wave Systems Inc. prior to the Closing. All other capitalized terms have the meanings ascribed thereto elsewhere in this Report. All dollar amounts are expressed in thousands of United States dollars ($), unless otherwise indicated. Overview We are a commercial quantum computing company that provides customers with a full suite of professional services and web-based access to our superconducting quantum computer systems and integrated software environment through our cloud service, LeapTM. Historically, we have developed our own annealing superconducting quantum computer and associated software, and our current generation quantum system is the AdvantageTM system. We are a leader in the development and delivery of quantum computing systems, software and services, and we are the worlds first commercial supplier of quantum computers. Our business model is focused primarily on generating revenue from providing customers access to our quantum computing systems via the cloud in the form of QCaaS products, and from providing professional services wherein we assist our customers in identifying and implementing quantum computing applications. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we recognized revenue from our cloud and professional services of $1.6 million and $1.7 million, respectively. We have incurred significant operating losses since inception. For the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, our net loss was $24.6 million and $11.7 million, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in a number of research and development programs as well as a variety of go-to-market initiatives. As of March 31, 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $401.4 million. Recent developments On June 16, 2022, we entered into the Purchase Agreement with Lincoln Park pursuant to which Lincoln Park has agreed to purchase up to $150.0 million of Common Shares through the Purchase Agreement (subject to certain limitations contained in the Purchase Agreement) from time to time over a 36-month period, to assist us in meeting our capital requirements. However, we may not sell any Common Shares to Lincoln Park unless and until the price of our Common Shares exceeds the Floor Price of $1.00. Since February 14, 2023, our stock price has closed each day below the $1.00 Floor Price. The resale of our Common Shares by Lincoln Park related to the Purchase Agreement was registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act") pursuant to a registration statement filed with the SEC, declared effective by the SEC on October 26, 2022, (the "First LP Registration Statement"). On February 13, 2023 we filed a registration statement with the SEC (the "Second LP Registration Statement") to register the sale of additional shares related to the Purchase Agreement. The Second LP Registration Statement is not yet effective. Our future results of consolidated operations and financial position may not be comparable to historical results as a result of the Merger. Macroeconomic Environment Unfavorable conditions in the economy in the United States, Canada and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, inflationary pressures, rising interest rates, financial and credit market fluctuations, banking collapses and related uncertainty, international trade relations, political turmoil, natural catastrophes, outbreaks of contagious diseases, warfare and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe or elsewhere, including military actions affecting Russia, Ukraine or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in business investments on our products and negatively affect the growth of our business and our results of operations. Key Components of Results of Operations 24 Table of Contents Revenue We currently generate our revenue through subscription sales to access our Quantum Computing as a Service ("QCaaS") cloud platform; professional services that include problem evaluation, proof of concept, and pilot application phases; training on our quantum computing systems; and the sale of printed circuit boards. QCaaS revenue is recognized on a ratable basis over the contract term, which generally ranges from one month to two years. Professional services revenue is recognized based on the terms of the contract, or based upon the ratio that incurred costs bear to total estimated contract costs. Other revenue is not material and is recognized upon completion. Our contracts with our customers do not, at any time, provide the customer with the right to take possession of the software that runs our cloud platform. We expect that there will be a decrease in our cloud based recurring QCaaS revenue as a percentage of total revenue in 2023 when compared to 2022 due to increased demand for professional services engagements. In subsequent periods, we expect that the general trend will be for QCaaS revenue as a percentage of total revenue to increase due to an increasing number of QCaaS agreements being driven by the completion of professional services engagements yielding production applications that require QCaaS services, as well as by customers that choose to access our Leap cloud service without utilizing our professional services organization. Cost of Revenue Our cost of revenue consists of all direct and indirect expenses related to providing our QCaaS offering and delivering our professional services, personnel-related expenses, including stock-based compensation, and costs associated with maintaining the cloud platform on which the QCaaS resides. The cost of revenue also includes depreciation and amortization related to our quantum computing systems and related software. We expect our total cost of revenue to increase in absolute dollars in future periods, corresponding to our anticipated growth in revenue and employee headcount to support our customers and to maintain the QCaaS cloud offering, manufacturing operations, and the field service organization. Because the costs of delivering our QCaaS cloud offering are less than the costs for our professional services, we anticipate that an increase of QCaaS revenue will increase our gross margin in the longer term. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of research and development, general and administrative, and sales and marketing expenses. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation for personnel, fabrication costs, lab supplies, and cloud computing resources and allocated facility costs for our research and development functions. Unlike a standard computer, design and development efforts continue throughout the useful life of our quantum computing systems to ensure proper calibration and optimal functionality. Research and development expenses also include purchased hardware components, fabrication and software costs related to quantum computing systems constructed for research purposes that do not have a high probability of providing near-term future economic benefits, and may have no alternate future use. We currently do not capitalize any research and development expenses. We expect our research and development expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development efforts to enhance the performance of our annealing quantum computers, to complete the development of our gate model quantum computer, broaden the functionality of our QCaaS cloud platform, and improve the reliability, availability and scalability of our cloud platform. In addition, research and development costs could increase in absolute dollars if we do not receive government grants and research incentives, which have historically offset a portion of these costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation for personnel and outside professional services expenses including legal, audit and accounting services, insurance, other administrative expenses and allocated facility costs for our administrative functions. We expect our general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as a result of operating as a public company. In particular, we expect our legal, accounting, tax, personnel-related expenses and directors and officers insurance costs reported within general and administrative expenses to increase as we establish more comprehensive compliance and governance functions, increased IT security and compliance, expanded internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and prepare and distribute periodic reports as required by the rules and regulations of the SEC. 25 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel-related expenses, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation for personnel, direct advertising, marketing and promotional material costs, sales commission expense, consulting fees and allocated facility costs for our sales and marketing functions. We intend to continue to make significant investments in our sales and marketing organization to drive additional revenue, expand our global customer base, and broaden our brand awareness. We expect our sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future. Other income (expense), net Our other income (expense), net is primarily comprised of change in fair value of warrant liabilities assumed by D-Wave as part of the Merger (see Note 8 included in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the three months ended March 31, 2023 included elsewhere in this Report), interest expense on the SIF Loan and other miscellaneous income and expense unrelated to our core operations. Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 2022 Revenue $ 1,583 $ 1,713 Cost of revenue 1,162 616 Total gross profit 421 1,097 Operating expenses: Research and development 10,915 6,802 General and administrative 11,296 3,646 Sales and marketing 2,900 1,600 Total operating expenses 25,111 12,048 Loss from operations (24,690) (10,951) Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (454) (525) Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 638 Other income (expense), net (102) (181) Total other income (expense), net $ 82 $ (706) Net loss $ (24,608) $ (11,657) Foreign currency translation adjustment, net of tax (19) (70) Net comprehensive loss $ (24,627) $ (11,727) Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Revenue decreased $0.1 million, or 8%, to $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $1.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease in revenue was primarily driven by lower QCaaS revenue due to non-renewal for several customer contracts that were partially replaced with new customer contracts. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue increased $0.5 million, or 89%, to $1.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase in cost of revenue was driven primarily by: An increase in personnel-related costs of $0.3 million related to higher salaries; and An increase of $0.3 million related to stock-based compensation expense. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses 26 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, Change (In thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Amount % Research and development $ 10,915 $ 6,802 $ 4,113 60 % Research and development expenses increased by $4.1 million, or 60% to $10.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 compared to $6.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily a result of our continuous efforts to broaden the functionality of our QCaaS cloud platform and improve the reliability, availability and scalability of our cloud platform. In particular, our personnel-related expenses increased of $3.1 million (including $2.7 million related to stock-based compensation expense), and our wafer fabrication costs increased $0.9 million due to higher activity demands and production rates. Our research and development expenses also increased $0.4 million as a result of a reduction in Scientific Research and Experimental Development expenditure credits during the year due to the Companys loss of Canadian Controlled Private Corporation ("CCPC") status after becoming a public company. General and Administrative Expenses Three months ended March 31, Change (In thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Amount % General and administrative $ 11,296 $ 3,646 $ 7,650 210 % General and administrative expenses increased $7.7 million, or 210%, to $11.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $3.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily a result of operating as a public company. In particular, our third-party professional services from legal, accounting, and tax increased $2.8 million, our personnel-related expenses increased $3.5 million (including $2.7 million related to stock-based compensation expense), along with an increase of $0.8 million in Directors and Officers insurance costs and increase of $0.3 million in SEC filing fees. Sales and Marketing Expenses Three months ended March 31, Change (In thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Amount % Sales and marketing $ 2,900 $ 1,600 $ 1,300 81 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.3 million, or 81%, to $2.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $1.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The increase was primarily a result of our efforts in expanding and broadening our brand awareness through conference and travel costs that increased $0.6 million, through hiring as our personnel-related expenses increased $0.5 million (including $0.3 million related to stock-based compensation expense), and through an increase of $0.2 million in investments in our sales and marketing organization. Other Income (Expense), net Interest Expense Three months ended March 31, Change (In thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Amount % Interest expense $ 454 $ 525 $ (71) (14) % Interest expense decreased $0.1 million or 14%, to $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022. A decrease of $0.2 million was due to a lower debt balance in the current period compared to the prior period due to the repayment of the $21.8 million Venture Loan and final payment fee on August 5, 2022. The remaining decrease of $0.1 million was due to a decrease in the principal balance of our SIF Loan. Change in fair value of warrant liabilities 27 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, Change (In thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Amount % Change in fair value of warrant liabilities $ 638 $ $ 638 100 % Change in fair value of warrant liabilities increased by $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to nil for the three months ended March 31, 2022. In August 2022, we assumed the warrant liabilities from DPCM as part of the Merger. See Note 3 and Note 8 of our condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the period ended March 31, 2023 included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q for details regarding our warrants. Other income (expense), net Three months ended - March 31st Change (In thousands, except percentages) 2023 2022 Amount % Other income (expense), net $ (102) $ (181) $ 79 (44) % Other income (expense), increased $0.1 million to $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2023 as compared to $0.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. The decrease was primarily due to a $0.1 million decrease in foreign exchange loss. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have incurred net losses and experienced negative cash flows from operations since inception. To date, our primary sources of capital have been through private placements of convertible preferred shares, private placements of common stock revenue from the sale of our products and services, government assistance and debt financing. During the three months ended March 31, 2023 and 2022, we incurred net losses of $24.6 million and $11.7 million, respectively. We expect to incur additional losses and higher operating expenses for the foreseeable future as we continue to invest in research and development and go-to-market programs. We have determined that additional financing will be required to fund our operations for the next 12 months and our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon obtaining additional capital and financing. Our primary uses of cash are to fund our operations as we continue to grow our business. We will require a significant amount of cash for expenditures as we invest in ongoing research and development and business operations. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from sales of our QCaaS offering and our professional services, we expect to finance our cash needs through public and/or private equity (including sales pursuant to the Purchase Agreement) and/or debt financings or other capital sources, including strategic partnerships. However, we may be unable to raise sufficient funds or enter into such other arrangements, when needed, on favorable terms, or at all. In particular, uncertain and unfavorable conditions in the United States and global macroeconomic environment, including inflationary pressures, rising interest rates, banking collapses, and financial and credit market fluctuations, could reduce our ability to access capital on favorable terms, or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our common stockholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development and go-to-market efforts. We are not currently in compliance with, and may be unable to regain and/or maintain compliance with, certain continued listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). If we are unable to cure any event of noncompliance with any continued listing standard of the NYSE within the applicable timeframe and other parameters set forth by the NYSE, or if we fail to maintain compliance with certain continued listing standards that do not provide for a cure period, it will result in the delisting of our common stock from the NYSE, which could negatively impact the trading price, trading volume and liquidity of, and have other material adverse effects on, our common stock and our ability to raise capital. For additional information refer to Item 1A. Risk Factors titled "If we are unable for any reason to meet the continued listing requirements of the NYSE, such action or inaction could result in a delisting of our securities" of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the SEC on April 18, 2023. As of March 31, 2023, we have 17,916,609 Warrants outstanding, each Warrant being exercisable for 1.4541326 Common Shares of the Company at an exercise price of $11.50. Whether warrant holders will exercise their Warrants, and therefore the amount of cash proceeds we would receive upon exercise, is dependent upon the trading price of the Common Shares. Therefore, if and when the trading price of the Common Shares is less than approximately $7.91, the 28 Table of Contents effective exercise price of the Warrants per one Common Share we expect that warrant holders will not exercise their Warrants. Our Common Shares have closed below $7.91 since October 11, 2022. Therefore, we do not expect warrant holders to exercise their Warrants in the short-term and as such we do not expect to rely on the cash exercise of Warrants to fund our operations. Instead, we intend to rely on other sources of cash discussed below to continue to fund our operations. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we will be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development and go-to-market efforts. Term Loan and Security Agreement On April 13, 2023, we entered into the Term Loan, by and between us and PSIPB as the lender. Under the Term Loan, loans in aggregate principal amount of $50.0 million are to be made available to us in three tranches, subject certain terms and conditions. The first tranche, in an aggregate principal amount of $15.0 million was advanced on April 14, 2023 with second and third tranches, of $15.0 million and $20.0 million respectively, to be made available to us subject to certain conditions. Prior to PSPIB's advance of the first tranche, the Company satisfied several closing conditions including the provision of a cash flow forecast and the board of directors' retention of an advisor. The second tranche, that shall be available to us as of July 12, 2023, is subject to us providing the Lender with an IP valuation report, a board-approved operating budget for 2023 through 2027, and SIFs consent to the grant of security interests in the project intellectual property associated with the SIF Loan. The third tranche, that shall be available to us as of October 10, 2023, is subject to us closing a $25.0 million non-dilutive financing on terms reasonably acceptable to the Lender, and the IP valuation report and board-approved operating budget for 2023 through 2027 remaining satisfactory to the Lender. Each tranche is subject to a 2.0% drawdown fee and the Term Loan matures on March 31, 2027. The initial $15.0 million tranche is expected to provide the Company with sufficient cash runway until the second $15.0 million tranche, assuming it is received when available on July 12, 2023. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to meet the conditions necessary to draw on the second and third tranches. At our discretion, the Term Loan bears interest on a monthly basis at either (i) 10.0% payable in cash, or (ii) 11.0% payable in kind (PIK), with the latter added to the principal value of the Term Loan. The Term Loan requires that any proceeds from the issuance of Common Shares under the Purchase Agreement be applied towards the repayment of advances under the Term Loan in addition to a premium payment equal to 10.0% of the amount then prepaid to the Lender. Upon the repayment or prepayment of the Term Loan, there is a prepayment premium due to the Lender that is equal to 3.0% of the amount repaid / prepaid prior to the first anniversary of the closing of the Term Loan, 2.0% of the amount repaid / prepaid after the first anniversary and before the second anniversary of the closing of the Term Loan, 1.0% of the amount repaid / prepaid after the second anniversary and before the third anniversary of the closing of the Term Loan and no prepayment premium due thereafter. The Term Loan is secured by a first-priority security interest in substantially all of our assets and contains certain operational and financial covenants and terminates in March 2027. Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement For the three months ended March 31, 2023, the Company received $15.7 million in proceeds through the issuance of 13,239,654 Common Shares to Lincoln Park under the Purchase Agreement. To the extent that sufficient capital is not obtained through the cash received in connection with the Term Loan and the issuance of Common Shares under the Purchase Agreement, management will be required to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional debt and/or equity, or other arrangements. However, there can be no assurance that D-Wave will be able to raise additional capital when needed or under acceptable terms. The issuance of additional equity may dilute existing stockholders and newly issued shares may contain senior rights and preferences compared to the currently outstanding Common Shares. Any future debt may contain covenants and limit D-Waves ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders. Our future capital requirements and the adequacy of available funds will depend on many factors, including those set forth in the section titled Risk Factors" in this Report. Cash Flows The following table sets forth our cash flows for the periods indicated (in thousands): Three months ended March, 2023 2022 29 Table of Contents Net cash (used in) provided by: Operating Activities $ (13,574) $ (9,509) Investing Activities (76) (144) Financing Activities 15,592 17,872 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (19) (41) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 1,923 $ 8,178 Cash Flows Used in Operating Activities Our cash flows from operating activities are significantly affected by the growth of our business, and are primarily related to research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative activities. Our operating cash flows are also affected by our working capital needs to support growth in personnel-related expenditures and fluctuations in accounts payable, accounts receivable and other current assets and liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $13.6 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $24.6 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $0.5 million in depreciation and amortization, including amortization of operating right of use assets, $6.8 million in stock-based compensation, $0.6 million in change in fair value of public and private warrants, $0.4 million in interest on government loans and $3.9 million in working capital adjustments. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $9.5 million, resulting primarily from a net loss of $11.7 million, adjusted for non-cash charges of $0.6 million in depreciation and amortization including amortization of operating right of use assets, $0.8 million in stock-based compensation, $0.5 million in interest on government loans, $0.5 million in other non-cash activities and $0.3 million in working capital adjustments. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $0.1 million, representing additions of $0.1 million in property and equipment and $12 thousand in software primarily related to the development and upgrade of our quantum computing systems. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $0.1 million representing additions of $0.1 million in property and equipment and software primarily related to the development of our quantum computing systems. Cash Flows Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2023 was $15.6 million, primarily reflecting proceeds from the Lincoln Park Purchase Agreement of $15.7 million, stock option exercise proceeds of $0.5 million, and shareholder settlement proceeds of $0.2 million, partially offset by payments for Directors and Officers Insurance of $0.9 million. Net cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $17.9 million, primarily reflecting net proceeds received from the Venture Loan for $14.7 million, and net proceeds received from the SIF Loan for $3.2 million. Contractual Obligations and Commitments As of March 31, 2023, there have been no material changes with regard to contractual obligations from those disclosed in our "Management's Discussion and Analysis on Financial Condition and Results of OperationsContractual Obligations and Commitments" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies from those disclosed in our "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Estimates" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding recently issued accounting pronouncements.