Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. The occurrence of one or more of the events or circumstances described in these risk factors, alone or in combination with other events or circumstances, may have a material adverse effect on the business, cash flows, financial condition and results of operations of D-Wave Quantum. The risks discussed below may not prove to be exhaustive and are based on certain assumptions made by us that later may prove to be incorrect or incomplete. We may face additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us, or that are currently deemed immaterial, which may also impair D-Wave Quantums business or financial condition. Summary of the Risk Factors 25 The following is a summary of the principal risks described below in this Form 10-K. This summary does not address all of the risks that we face. We encourage you to carefully review the full risk factors contained in this Form 10-K in their entirety, together with our other filings with the SEC, for additional information regarding the material factors that make an investment in our securities speculative or risky. Additional risks beyond those summarized below or discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K may apply to our business and operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or to the markets in which we currently, or may in the future, operate. Principal risks and uncertainties facing us include, but are not limited to, the following: D-Wave Quantum is in its growth stage which makes it difficult to forecast its future results of operations and its funding requirements. D-Wave Quantum has a history of losses and expects to incur significant expenses and continuing losses for the foreseeable future. If D-Wave Quantum does not adequately fund its research and development efforts or use research and development teams effectively or build a sufficient number of annealing quantum computer production systems, it may not be able to achieve its technological goals, meet customer and market demand, or compete effectively and D-Wave Quantums business and operating results may be harmed. D-Wave Quantum depends on its ability to retain existing senior management and other key employees and qualified, skilled personnel and to attract new individuals to fill these roles as needed. If D-Wave Quantum is unable to do so, such failure could adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial condition. D-Wave Quantum expects to require additional capital to pursue its business objectives, growth strategy and respond to business opportunities, challenges or unforeseen circumstances, and it may be unable to raise capital or additional financing when needed on acceptable terms, or at all. D-Wave Quantums industry is competitive on a global scale, from both quantum and classical competitors, and D-Wave Quantum may not be successful in competing in this industry or establishing and maintaining confidence in its long-term business prospects among current and future partners and customers, which would materially harm its reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Any cybersecurity-related attack, significant data breach or disruption of the information technology systems, infrastructure, network, third-party processors or platforms on which D-Wave Quantum relies could damage D-Wave Quantums reputation and adversely affect its business and financial results. Market adoption of cloud-based online quantum computing platform solutions is relatively new and unproven and may not grow as D-Wave Quantum expects and, even if market demand increases, the demand for D-Wave Quantums QCaaS may not increase, or certain customers may be reluctant to use a cloud-based QCaaS for applications, all of which may harm D-Wave Quantums business and results of operations. D-Wave Quantum may, in the future, be adversely affected by continuation or worsening of the global COVID-19 pandemic, various COVID-19 strains or future pandemics. Unfavorable conditions in D-Wave Quantum's industry or the global economy, including uncertain geopolitical conditions such as inflation, recessions and war, among others, could limit D-Wave Quantum's ability to grow the business and negatively affect D-Wave Quantum's results of operations. System failures, interruptions, delays in service, catastrophic events, inadequate infrastructure and resulting interruptions in the availability or functionality of D-Wave Quantums products and services could harm its reputation or subject D-Wave Quantum to significant liability, and adversely affect its business, financial condition and operating results. D-Wave Quantum may be unable to obtain, maintain and protect its intellectual property or prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of its intellectual property, which could cause it to lose the competitive advantage resulting from its intellectual property. D-Wave Quantums patent applications may not result in issued patents or its patent rights may be contested, circumvented, invalidated or limited in scope, any of which could have a material adverse effect on D-Wave Quantums ability to prevent others from interfering with the commercialization of its products and services. D-Wave Quantum may face patent infringement and other intellectual property claims that could be costly to defend and may result in injunctions and significant damage awards or other costs. If third parties claim that D-Wave Quantum infringes upon or otherwise violates their intellectual property rights, D-Wave Quantums business could be adversely affected. If D-Wave Quantum does not meet the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the market price of D-Wave Quantums securities may decline. Uncertainty about the effect of the Transaction may affect D-Wave Quantums ability to retain key employees, integrate management structures and may materially impact the management, strategy and results of its operation as a combined company. Financial projections with respect to D-Wave Quantum may not prove to be reflective of actual financial results. D-Wave Quantum may be required to take write-downs or write-offs, or D-Wave Quantum may be subject to restructuring, impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on D-Wave Quantums financial condition, results of operations and the price of D-Wave Quantums securities, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. The price of the Companys Common Shares has been and may continue to be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. D-Wave Quantum may issue additional Common Shares or other equity securities without your approval, which would dilute your ownership interests and may depress the market price of the Common Shares. D-Wave Quantum's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (the "D-Wave Quantum Charter") contains anti-takeover provisions that could adversely affect the rights of our stockholders. Risks Related to D-Wave Quantums Financial Condition and Status as an Early-Stage Company 26 We are in our growth stage which makes it difficult to forecast our future results of operations and our funding requirements. Near term, our ability to generate revenue will largely be dependent on our ability to continue to develop and produce annealing quantum computers and hybrid quantum-classical solvers that are able to solve customer business problems at scale. Longer term, our ability to generate revenue will also be dependent on our ability to develop, produce and commercialize gate-model quantum computers. We have commercialized annealing quantum computers, but we have not yet commercialized a gate-model quantum computer. Our product roadmap may not be realized as quickly as hoped, or at all. Our ability to scale our business is dependent upon building referenceable quantum-hybrid applications. Additionally, we must accelerate sales cycles to meet revenue projections and our business depends on our ability to successfully upsell customers through our on-board process and move them into production applications. The development of our scalable business model will require the incurrence of a substantially higher level of costs than incurred to date, while our revenues may not substantially increase until more powerful products are produced, which requires a number of technological advancements which may not occur on the currently anticipated timetable or at all. As a result, our historical results should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Further, in future periods, our growth could slow or decline for any number of reasons, including but not limited to failing to achieve targeted demand for our services, increased competition, changes to technology, inability to scale up our technology, a decrease in the growth of the overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to continue to take advantage of growth opportunities. We have also encountered, and will continue to encounter, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties and our future growth are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results and our funding needs could differ materially from our expectations, and our business could suffer. Our success as a business ultimately relies upon fundamental research and development breakthroughs in the coming years and decade. There is no certainty these research and development milestones will be achieved for the costs we have forecast or as quickly as hoped, or at all. We have a history of losses and expect to incur significant expenses and continuing losses for the foreseeable future. We have incurred net losses since inception and experienced negative cash flows from operations. To date, our primary sources of capital have been through private placements of convertible preferred shares, revenue from the sale of our products and services, government assistance and the Venture Loan and Security Agreement, dated as of March 3, 2022, between D-Wave, D-Wave US Inc., D-Wave Government Inc., D-Wave Commercial Inc., D-Wave International Inc., D-Wave Quantum Solutions Inc. and Omni Circuit Boards Ltd., as borrower, and PSPIB Unitas Investments II Inc., as lender. During the year ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020 we incurred net losses of $51.5 million, $31.5 million, and $10.1 million respectively. We expect to incur additional losses and higher operating expenses for the foreseeable future as we operate as a public company and continue to invest in research and development and go-to-market programs. We have determined that additional financing will be required to fund our operations for the next 12 months and our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon obtaining additional capital and financing. Due to the large number of DPCM stockholders that exercised their redemption rights in connection with the Transaction, only approximately $9 million of cash from the DPCM Trust Account became available to D-Wave Quantum as of the closing of the Transaction, out of approximately $300 million that had been available, which significantly reduced the potential enhancement to our liquidity and capital resources that was sought to be achieved through the Transaction. If D-Wave is unable to obtain additional financing, operations will be scaled back or discontinued. These conditions give rise to material uncertainties that cast substantial doubt on the ability of D-Wave to continue as a going concern. In addition, in connection with the Transaction, the board of directors of DPCM considered, among other things, internal financial forecasts prepared by, or at the direction of, the management of D-Wave Quantum (the Transaction Forecasts). None of these projections or forecasts were prepared with a view towards public disclosure or compliance with the published guidelines of the SEC, U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") or the guidelines established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for preparation and presentation of financial forecasts. Neither DPCMs independent registered public accounting firm nor D-Wave Quantums independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have audited, reviewed, examined, compiled nor applied agreed-upon procedures with respect to the unaudited prospective financial information, and accordingly, they do not express an opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Any projections and forecasts were inherently based on various estimates and assumptions that were subject to the judgment of those preparing them. Projections and forecasts were also subject to significant economic, competitive, industry and other uncertainties and contingencies, all of which were difficult or impossible to predict and many of which were beyond the control of D-Wave Quantum. With respect to certain key metrics, including revenue, we do not anticipate meeting the Transaction Forecasts due primarily to (i) the timing of closing the Transaction in August 2022, which was later than the assumed closing in June 2022, and (ii) the significant redemptions of DPCM stockholders, which has adversely affected our liquidity position and ability to pursue certain growth opportunities, and which will require us to seek alternative sources of financing as described below. See General Risk FactorsFinancial projections with respect to D-Wave Quantum may not prove to be reflective of actual financial results. 27 Our primary uses of cash are to fund our operations as we continue to grow our business. We will require a significant amount of cash for expenditures as we invest in ongoing research and development and business operations. Until such time as we can generate significant revenue from sales of our QCaaS offering and our professional services, we expect to finance our cash needs through public and/or private equity (including sales pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, assuming we are able to make such sales) and/or debt financings or other capital sources, including strategic partnerships. However, we may be unable to raise sufficient funds or enter into such other arrangements, when needed, on favorable terms or at all. To the extent that we raise additional capital through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be, or could be, diluted, and the terms of these securities may include liquidation or other preferences that adversely affect the rights of our shareholders. Debt financing and equity financing, if available, may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Following the Transaction, we had 18,000,000 Warrants outstanding (17,916,560 Warrants as of December 31, 2022), each Warrant being exercisable for 1.4541326 Common Shares at an exercise price of $11.50. Whether warrantholders will exercise their Warrants, and therefore the amount of cash proceeds we would receive upon exercise, is dependent upon the trading price of the Common Shares. Therefore, if and when the trading price of the Common Shares is less than approximately $7.91, the effective exercise price of the Warrants per one Common Share, we expect that warrantholders would not exercise their Warrants. We could receive up to an aggregate of approximately $207 million if all of the Warrants are exercised for cash, but we would only receive such proceeds if and when the warrantholders exercise the Warrants. The Warrants may not be or remain in the money during the period they are exercisable and prior to their expiration, and the Warrants may not be exercised prior to their maturity on August 5, 2027, even if they are in the money, and as such, the Warrants may expire worthless and we may receive minimal proceeds, if any, from the exercise of Warrants. To the extent that any of the Warrants are exercised on a cashless basis, we will not receive any proceeds upon such exercise. As a result, we do not expect to rely on the cash exercise of Warrants to fund our operations. Instead, we intend to rely on other sources of cash discussed below to continue to fund our operations. If we are unable to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings when needed, we may be required to delay, limit, or substantially reduce our quantum computing development and go-to-market efforts. We have not yet achieved profitability on an annual or quarterly basis and we do not know if we will be able to achieve or sustain, if achieved, profitability. We plan to continue to invest in our research and development, sales, marketing and professional services efforts, and we anticipate that our operating expenses will continue to increase as we scale our business and expand our operations. Our general and administrative expenses have increased and are expected to continue to increase as a result of our growth and operating as a public company. We have determined that additional financing will be required to fund our operations for the next 12 months and our ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon obtaining additional capital and financing. Our expenses may be greater than we anticipate, and our investments intended to reach our technical targets and scale our business and make our technical infrastructure more efficient may not be successful. Our ability to achieve and sustain profitability is based on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. We may never be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. On June 16, 2022, D-Wave Quantum, D-Wave Systems and DPCM entered into the Purchase Agreement pursuant to which Lincoln Park agreed to purchase from D-Wave Quantum, at the option of D-Wave Quantum, up to $150,000,000 of Common Shares from time to time over a 36-month period following the Commencement Date. However, the use of the Purchase Agreement to fund operations is subject to significant limitations, including but not limited to, the Floor Price Limitation and the Beneficial Ownership Limitation. Since February 14, 2023, our stock price has closed each day below the $1.00 Floor Price. We are aware, however, that such use of the Purchase Agreement, if available, may cause significant dilution, depress our share price, and make it more difficult to achieve required financing. In addition, on April 13, 2023, the Company entered into the Term Loan, with PSPIB as the lender (the "Term Loan"). The Term Loan contains certain restrictions and conditions, some of which affect the Companys use of the Purchase Agreement. Principally, if the Company issues Common Shares, including under the Purchase Agreement, then the Company must promptly prepay the loans in an aggregate amount equal to the proceeds thereof, with such prepayment being subject to an additional premium equal to 10% of the amount then prepaid to PSPIB. In addition, we may make decisions that would reduce our short-term operating results if we believe those decisions will improve the experiences of our customers or if we believe such decisions will improve our operating results over the long-term. These decisions may not be consistent with the expectations of investors and may not produce the long-term benefits we expect, in which case our business may be materially and adversely affected. See [Liquidity and going concern] in the notes to the audited consolidated financial statements of D-Wave Systems as of the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, and in the audited consolidated financial statements of D-Wave for the year ended December 31, 2022 andManagements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsLiquidity and Capital Resources. Our ability to receive the advancement of funds under the Term Loan are subject to a number of conditions, which, if not met, may prohibit us from receiving advancements under the Term Loan, which would negatively impact our financial condition. 28 The Term Loan makes an aggregate principal amount of $50.0 million available to the Company in three tranches, each subject to certain conditions being met. If we cannot meet each such conditions, we may not receive the associated advancement of funds under the Term Loan. For example, conditions include receiving certain Canadian governmental consents, producing an intellectual property valuation report satisfactory to PSPIB, and raising at least $25 million from non-dilutive financing sources on terms reasonably acceptable to PSPIB. Failure to satisfy these or any other conditions in the Term Loan could prevent us from receiving all available funds under the Term Loan, which would negatively impact our financial condition. If we do not adequately fund our research and development efforts or use research and development teams effectively or build a sufficient number of annealing quantum computer production systems, we may not be able to achieve our technological goals, build sufficient systems, meet customer and market demand, or compete effectively and our business and operating results may be harmed. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop new product offerings and reach technological milestones, as well as add features and enhancements to our existing platform and products. Maintaining adequate research and development personnel and resources to meet the demands of the market is essential. If we experience high employee or management turnover, or a lack of other research and development resources, we may miss market opportunities. The success of our business is dependent on our research and development teams developing a roadmap that allows us to achieve technical milestones for both annealing and gate-model quantum computing, including with respect to our hybrid solvers and our Leap and Ocean platforms, retain and increase the spending of our existing customers and attract new customers. The computing industry is quickly evolving and we may invest significantly in particular functionality or integrations that may become obsolete in the future, and any future product offerings, features or enhancements that we develop may be unsuccessful. The success of any new product offerings, enhancements or features depends on several factors, including our understanding of market demand, timely execution, successful introduction, and market acceptance. We may not successfully develop new features or enhance our existing platform and products to meet customer needs or our new products, features or enhancements may not achieve adequate acceptance in the market. Additionally, our improvements and enhancements may not result in our ability to recoup our investments in a timely manner, or at all. We may make significant investments in new offerings, features or enhancements that may not achieve expected returns. Further, many of our competitors may expend a considerably greater amount of funds on their research and development programs, and those that do not may be acquired by larger companies that would allocate greater resources to our competitors research and development programs. Our failure to maintain adequate research and development resources, to use our research and development resources efficiently or to compete effectively with the research and development programs of our competitors could materially adversely affect our business. Our estimates of the magnitude of the market opportunity, forecasts of market growth and our operating metrics may prove to be inaccurate and may not be indicative of our future growth. Our estimates of market opportunity included in this Form 10-K may prove to be inaccurate and may not be indicative of our future growth or performance. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. While our estimate of the TAM included in this Form 10-K is made in good faith and is based on assumptions and estimates we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, this estimate may not prove to be accurate. Further, even if the estimate of our market opportunity does prove to be accurate, we could fail to capture significant portions, or any portion, of the available markets. Alternatives to our quantum computing products may present themselves and if they do, could substantially reduce the market for our computing services. Advances in classical computing may prove more robust for longer than currently anticipated and could adversely affect the timing of any quantum advantage being achieved, if at all. Any expansions in our markets depend on a number of factors, including the cost, performance, and perceived value associated with our products and services. In making such forecasts, we rely on data provided by industry sources and customers, among other things, that we have not independently verified and such data may not be accurate, and any inaccuracy will affect the accuracy of our forecasts. The accuracy of our forecasts may also be affected by human error in the interpretation of such data. Our business could be harmed if we fail to manage growth effectively. If we fail to manage growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. We anticipate that a period of significant expansion will be required to address potential growth. This expansion will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. Expansion will require significant cash investments and management resources. Such investments may not result in additional sales of our products or services, and we may not be able to avoid cost overruns or be able to hire additional personnel as required. In addition, we will also need to ensure our compliance with regulatory requirements in various jurisdictions applicable to the sale, installation and servicing of our products. To manage the growth of our operations and personnel, we must establish appropriate and scalable operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and establish and maintain a qualified finance, administrative and operations staff. We may be unable to acquire the necessary capabilities and personnel required to manage growth or to identify, manage and exploit potential strategic relationships and market opportunities. The growth we have experienced in our business places significant demands on our operational infrastructure. The scalability and flexibility of our platform depends on the functionality of our technology and network infrastructure and its ability to handle increased traffic and demand for processing and bandwidth. Any problems with the transmission of increased data and requests could result in harm to our brand or reputation. 29 Our growth has placed, and will likely continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. As we grow, we will be required to continue to improve our operational and financial controls and reporting procedures and we may not be able to do so effectively. Furthermore, some members of our management do not have significant experience managing a large global business operation, so our management may not be able to manage such growth effectively. As such, we may be unable to manage our revenue and expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross profit or operating expenses. In managing our growing operations, we are also subject to the risks of over-hiring and/or overcompensating our employees and over-expanding our operating infrastructure. We intend to further expand our overall business, including headcount, with no assurance that our revenues will continue to grow. In addition, North America is currently experiencing one of the most competitive markets for human capital talent in recent times. Coupled with the incredibly complex nature of the quantum industry, we may face significant challenges and delays in hiring and challenges with employee retention. If we fail to attract new customers and retain and increase the spending of existing customers, our revenue, business, results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects would be harmed. Even if the market in which we compete achieves the forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Our success will depend upon our ability to expand our platforms capabilities, scale our operations, increase our sales capability and successfully complete professional services projects, that may or may not progress to in-production applications. Our long-term growth will ultimately be dependent upon our ability to successfully scale up manufacturing of our products in sufficient quantity and quality and in a cost-effective manner. Unforeseen issues associated with scaling up and constructing quantum computing technology at commercially viable levels could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth is dependent upon our ability to successfully market and sell quantum computing technology. One of our marketing strategies is to drive traffic to our cloud-based services. We utilize various unpaid content marketing strategies, including customer events, seminars, webinars, blogs, thought leadership and social media engagement, as well as paid advertising and third-party event sponsorship, to attract prospective users of our cloud-based services. These unpaid or paid efforts may not attract a sufficient volume and quality of traffic to our cloud-based services and, in the future, we may be required to increase our marketing spend to achieve our volume and quality of traffic targets. We depend on our ability to retain existing senior management and other key employees and qualified, skilled personnel and to attract new individuals to fill these roles as needed. If we are unable to do so, such failure could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our future performance depends on the continued service and contributions of our senior management, and other key employees to execute on our business plan, to develop our platform and products, to attract and retain customers and to identify and pursue strategic opportunities. The failure to properly manage succession plans, develop leadership talent, and/or the loss of services of senior management or other key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our strategic objectives. From time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team resulting from the hiring or departure of executives, which could disrupt our business. In addition, our ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain qualified personnel will directly affect our ability to maintain and grow our business, and such efforts will require significant time, expense and attention. The inability to attract or retain qualified personnel or delays in hiring required personnel may seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to continue to attract and retain highly skilled personnel, specifically employees with technical and engineering skills and employees with high levels of experience in designing and developing software, will be critical to our future success. In addition, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that such personnel have been improperly solicited or have divulged proprietary or other confidential information. The loss of service of senior management or other key employees could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives. The replacement of any of our senior management personnel or other key employees would likely involve significant time and costs, and such loss could adversely affect our revenue, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business and growth are dependent on the success of our strategic relationships with third parties. We depend on, and anticipate that we will continue to depend on, various third-party suppliers in order to sustain and grow our business. Failure of any of these suppliers to continue to provide products and services to maintain, support or secure their technology platforms or our integrations, or errors or defects in their technologies, products or services, could adversely affect our relationships with our customers, damage our brand and reputation and result in delays or difficulties in our ability to provide our platform. Our ability to produce and scale our annealing and gate model quantum computers is dependent also upon components we must source from the electronics and semiconductor industries. Shortages or supply interruptions in any of these components will adversely impact our financial performance. Our platform and products depend on the ability to access and integrate with third-party cloud providers. In particular, we have developed our platform and products to integrate with certain third-party cloud providers and the third-party applications of other parties. If we choose or are required to change cloud providers, we will incur costs to port our platform and products to a new service and may experience service interruptions during a change of cloud provider. Generally, third-party cloud providers and the data we receive from the third-party cloud providers are written and controlled by the application provider. Any changes or modifications to the third-party cloud providers or the data provided could negatively impact the functionality of, or require us to make changes to, our platform and products, which would 30 need to occur quickly to avoid interruptions in service for our customers. See Our products and services are dependent upon our relationship with third-party providers and any disruption of or interference with our use of such third-party providers would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Scaling our business is heavily dependent on our ability to build and maintain relationships with consulting and service partners and assist them in establishing or expanding their business by developing solutions that utilize our products and services. Solutions that utilize our products and services may compete with other quantum or classical-computing based solutions developed and/or marketed by other suppliers and our solutions may lose favor with our partners. Our current distribution partners may cease or reduce marketing our solutions with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. Our distribution partners will generally have no obligation to maintain or renew their contractual arrangements with us and generally may terminate such arrangements with limited notice and/or transition periods. New distribution partners require extensive training and could take extended periods to achieve productivity. If any of our current or potential partners elect to not utilize our products or services, or reduce their current or potential use of our technology in favor of competing products, we may have to change our product strategies, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our results of operations. Our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, while some of our operating expenses, including relating to employees, are incurred in Canadian dollars. As a result, our results of operations will be adversely impacted by an increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. Exchange rate fluctuations may also affect our revenue growth rates as some of our customer agreements are priced in the local currency of the country in which the customer is located and is also expected to be denominated in that currency. As a result, we will be further exposed to currency fluctuations to the extent non-U.S. dollar revenues from our platform increase. The value of the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar has varied significantly and investors are cautioned that past and current exchange rates are not indicative of future exchange rates. Risks Related to D-Wave Quantums Business and Industry The immature market for quantum computing may lead to us misreading market demand and the timeframes it will take to close customer contracts and grow revenue, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In order to grow our business, we will need to continually evolve and scale our business and operations to meet customer and market demand. Quantum computing technology has a limited history of being sold at large-scale commercial levels. Evolving and scaling our business and operations places increased demands on our management as well as our financial and operational resources to: effectively manage organizational change; design scalable processes; accelerate and/or refocus research and development activities; expand supply chain and distribution capacity, and ultimately expand manufacturing capacity; increase sales and marketing efforts; scale and manage our professional services; broaden customer-support and services capabilities; maintain or increase operational efficiencies; scale support operations in a cost-effective manner; implement appropriate operational and financial systems; and maintain effective financial disclosure