Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis provides information which our management believes is relevant to an assessment and understanding of our results of operations and financial condition and should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, those described in the Risk Factors section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 25, 2022. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise noted or the context otherwise requires, references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to we, us, our, and the Company are intended to mean the business and operations of Dave Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries subsequent to the closing of the Business Combination (as defined below). Overview In the story of David vs. Goliath, the small underdog is able to outsmart and defeat his larger adversary. This is the spirit behind the name Dave. We have built an integrated financial services online platform that provides millions of Americans with seamless access to a variety of intuitive financial products at a fraction of the cost and with much higher speed to value than that of the legacy financial services incumbents, such as traditional banks and other financial institutions. Our mission is to build products that level the financial playing field. Our near-term strategy is focused on delivering a superior banking experience for anyone living paycheck to paycheck. Based on our observation and analysis of Member data, legacy financial institutions charge high fees for consumer banking and other financial services products, which disproportionately burdens tens of millions of Americans who can least afford them. We see this dynamic playing out with our Members who we believe are on average paying between $300-$400 in overdraft, maintenance and other fees to their existing bank for basic checking services. Further, we see a significant opportunity to address the broader short-term credit market. According to a report by the Center for Financial Services Innovation (CFSI), legacy financial institutions charge approximately $30 billion in fees annually. The Financial Health Network estimates that financially coping and vulnerable populations pay approximately $120 billion a year in fees and interest for access to short-term credit. Our prospective Member opportunity is also significant. According to the Financial Health Network, by 2023 approximately 45 million Americans will be financially vulnerable, 65 million Americans will be unbanked or underbanked and 185 million Americans will fall into the low or volatile income and credit- challenged category. Given these dynamics, we estimate that our total addressable market consists of between 150 million to 180 million Americans who are in need of financial stability and are either not served or underserved by legacy financial institutions. Dave offers a suite of innovative financial products aimed at helping our Members improve their financial health. Our budgeting tool helps Members manage their upcoming bills to avoid overspending. To help Members avoid punitive overdraft fees and access short-term liquidity, Dave offers cash advances through its flagship 0% interest ExtraCash product. We also help Members generate extra income for spending or emergencies through our Side Hustle product, where we present Members with supplemental work opportunities. Through Dave Banking, we provide a modern checking account experience with valuable tools for building long-term financial health. Market research conducted by Dave found that legacy financial institutions commonly require a more extensive banking relationship and days or even weeks of wait times to access their features and services, which can potentially be more onerous in order to obtain premium features (e.g., access to increased interest rates requires direct deposit or higher minimum daily balances). Even new challenger banks often take multiple days or even weeks before allowing members to access certain premium features, according to the same research. In contrast, Members are able to utilize all of Daves products individually and instantly, whether or not their banking relationship is with us. As an example, our ExtraCash product allows new Members to access up to $250 to cover an overdraft at their existing bank. We are able to do this by leveraging our proprietary machine learning engine that analyzes a Members prior transaction history at their existing bank. This flexible approach to Member choice and speed to value has been a key driver of our growth and best-in-Class brand favorability. We have only begun to address the many inequities in financial services, but our progress to date demonstrates the demand for Dave to rewire the financial system for the everyday person. Since inception and through the date of this Form 10-Q, over 10 million Members have registered on the Dave app, over six million of them have used at least one of our current products and we believe that we have a substantial opportunity to continue growing our Member base going forward. We strongly believe that the value proposition of our platform approach will continue to accelerate as a result of our data-driven perspective of our Members, allowing us to introduce products and services that address their changing life circumstances. 39 Table of Contents Business Combination and Public Company Costs On January 5, 2022 (the Closing Date), we consummated the previously announced mergers contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 7, 2021 (the Business Combination Agreement), by and among VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings III, Inc. (VPCC), Dave Inc., a Delaware corporation (Legacy Dave), Bear Merger Company I Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned Subsidiaries of VPCC (First Merger Sub), and Bear Merger Company II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned Subsidiaries of VPCC (Second Merger Sub). Pursuant to the Business Combination Agreement, First Merger Sub merged with and into Legacy Dave (the First Merger), with Legacy Dave being the surviving corporation of the First Merger (the Surviving Corporation), and immediately following the First Merger, the Surviving Corporation merged with and into Second Merger Sub (the Second Merger, together with the First Merger, the Mergers and the Mergers together with the other transactions contemplated by the Business Combination Agreement, the Business Combination), with Second Merger Sub being the surviving company of the Second Merger as a wholly owned Subsidiaries of VPCC (the Surviving Entity). In connection with the closing of the Business Combination, we changed our name from VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings III, Inc. to Dave Inc., and the Surviving Entity operates under the name Dave Operating LLC. While the legal acquirer in the Business Combination Agreement is VPCC, for financial accounting and reporting purposes under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP), Legacy Dave is the accounting acquirer, and the Business Combination is accounted for as a reverse recapitalization. A reverse recapitalization does not result in a new basis of accounting, and the consolidated financial statements of the combined entity represent the continuation of the consolidated financial statements of Legacy Dave in many respects. Under this method of accounting VPCC is treated as the acquired company for financial reporting purposes. For accounting purposes, Legacy Dave is deemed to be the accounting acquirer in the transaction and, consequently, the transaction will be treated as a recapitalization of Legacy Dave (i.e., a capital transaction involving the issuance of stock by VPCC for Dave Capital Stock). Accordingly, the consolidated assets, liabilities and results of operations of Legacy Dave have become the historical consolidated financial statements of the combined company, and VPCCs assets, liabilities and results of operations have been consolidated with Dave beginning on the Closing Date. Operations prior to the Business Combination are presented as those of Legacy Dave in future reports. The net assets of VPCC have been recognized at historical cost (which is expected to be consistent with carrying value), with no goodwill or other intangible assets recorded. The Business Combination generated gross cash proceeds of $217.0 million, including $210.0 million proceeds from the public investment in private equity pursuant to the subscription agreements between the Company and certain investors (the PIPE Investment). Total direct and incremental transaction costs aggregated approximately $35.3 million which were recorded to APIC as equity issuance costs. As a result of the consummation of the Business Combination, we expect to incur additional annual expenses as a public company for, among other things, directors and officers liability insurance, director fees and additional internal and external accounting, and legal and administrative resources, including increased audit, compliance and legal fees. Recent Developments On March 21, 2022, we entered into a Convertible Note Purchase Agreement (Purchase Agreement) with FTX Ventures Ltd., owner and operator of FTX US (FTX Ventures), pursuant to which, we sold and issued a convertible note in the initial principal amount of $100.0 million (the Note and the transactions contemplated by the Purchase Agreement and the Note, the Transaction). The Transaction is exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act) in reliance on an exemption provided by Rule 506 of Regulation D and Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act. We intend to use the proceeds from the sale of the Note for working capital and general corporate purposes. The note bears interest at a fixed rate of 3.00% per year (compounded semi-annually), payable semi-annually in arrears on June 30th and December 31st of each year. Interest may be paid in-kind or in cash, at our option. Forty-eight months (the Maturity Date) after the date of the initial issuance of the Note (the Issuance Date), we will pay FTX Ventures the sum of (i) the outstanding principal amount of the Note, plus (ii) all accrued but unpaid interest thereon, plus (iii) all expenses incurred by FTX Ventures (the Redemption Price). Payment of the Redemption Price on the Maturity Date will constitute a redemption of the Note in whole. The Note will be convertible into shares of our Class A Common Stock at the option of FTX Ventures, upon delivery on one or more occasions of a written notice to us electing to convert the Note or all of any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the Note. The initial conversion price of the Note is $10.00 per share of Common Stock (the Conversion Price). The Conversion Price of the Note is subject to adjustment for stock splits, dividends or distributions, recapitalizations, spinoffs or similar transactions. The Note and the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Note have not been registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. 40 Table of Contents Beginning on the twenty-four-month anniversary of the Issuance Date continuing until the Maturity Date, if the closing price of the Common Stock equals or exceeds 175% of the Conversion Price for 20 out of the 30 consecutive trading days ending immediately preceding the delivery of the notice of our election to convert the Note, the Note will be convertible into shares of Common Stock, upon delivery of a written notice to FTX Ventures electing to convert the Note or all or any portion of the outstanding principal amount of the Note. At any time prior to the Maturity Date, we may, in our sole discretion and upon delivery of a written notice to FTX Ventures electing to prepay the Note, prepay the Note without penalty by paying FTX Ventures 100% of the Redemption Price. Once the Redemption Price has been delivered to FTX Ventures, the Note will be cancelled and retired. Conversion of the full initial principal amount of the Note would result in the issuance of 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock if converted at $10.00 per share, which amount is subject to increase by any interest paid in kind that is added to the outstanding principal under the terms of the Note. The Purchase Agreement and Note include customary representations, warranties and covenants and set forth standard events of default upon which the Note may be declared immediately due and payable. On March 21, 2022, we also entered into a White Label Services Agreement (the Services Agreement) with West Realm Shire Services, Inc., d/b/a FTX US (FTX US). The Services Agreement allows our customers to establish accounts with FTX US through our platform to place orders for eligible cryptocurrencies and for the settlement of such orders. During the four-year term of the Services Agreement, FTX US will be our exclusive provider of such cryptocurrency services. COVID-19 Impact There are many uncertainties regarding the current global pandemic involving a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19), and we continue to closely monitor the impact of the pandemic on all aspects of our business, including how it has and may in the future impact our Members, employees, suppliers, vendors, and business partners. The duration and magnitude of the continuing effects of COVID-19 on our Members remain uncertain and dependent on various factors, including the continued severity and transmission rate of the virus, new variants of the virus, the nature of and duration for which preventive measures remain in place, the extent and effectiveness of containment and mitigation efforts, including vaccination programs, and the type of stimulus measures and other policy responses that the U.S. government may further adopt. Beginning in March 2020, our business and operations were disrupted by the conditions caused by COVID-19, which adversely affected Members spending levels and disposable income. Governmental actions such as the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) helped mitigate the effects of COVID-19 on our Members. In particular, stimulus funds and enhanced unemployment benefits provided under the CARES Act created additional financial support for our Members; however, the overall economic conditions and increased levels of unemployment may negatively impact the creditworthiness of our Members and could impact the credit risk on our Advance business. We actively monitor the performance of our Advance portfolio and will continue to assess the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At the onset of the pandemic, we made some underwriting modifications in response and intend to make additional adjustments to our risk management policies as necessary. Comparability of Financial Information Our future results of operations and financial position may not be comparable to historical results as a result of the consummation of the Business Combination. Key Factors Affecting Operating Results Our future operating results and cash flows are dependent upon a number of opportunities, challenges and other factors, including Member growth and activity, product expansion, competition, industry trends and general economic conditions. 41 Table of Contents Member Growth and Activity We have made significant investments in our platform and our business is dependent on continued Member growth, as well as our ability to offer new products and services and generate additional revenues from our existing members using such additional products and services. Member growth and activity are critical to our ability to increase our scale, capture market share and earn an attractive return on our technology, product and marketing investments. Growth in Members and Member activity will depend heavily on our ability to continue to offer attractive products and services and the success of our marketing and Member acquisition efforts. Product Expansion We aim to develop and offer a best-in-class financial services platform with integrated products and services that improve the financial wellbeing of our Members. We have invested and continue to make significant investments in the development, improvement and marketing of our financial products and are focused on continual growth in the number of products we offer that are utilized by our Members. Competition We face competition from several financial services-oriented institutions. In our reportable segment, as well as in potential new lines of business, we may compete with more established institutions, some of which have more financial resources. We compete at multiple levels, including competition among other financial institutions and lenders in our Advance business, competition for deposits in our Checking Product from traditional banks and digital banking products, competition for subscribers to our financial management tools, and competition with other technology platforms for the enterprise services that we provide. Some of our competitors may at times seek to increase their market share by undercutting pricing terms prevalent in that market, which could adversely affect our market share for any of our products and services or require us to incur higher member acquisition costs. Key Components of Statements of Operations Basis of presentation Currently, we conduct business through one operating segment which constitutes a single reportable segment. For more information about our basis of presentation, refer to Note 2 in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Dave included in this Form 10-Q. Service based revenue, net Service based revenue, net primarily consists of optional tips, optional express processing fees and subscriptions charged to Members, net of processor-related costs associated with advance disbursements. Service based revenue, net also consists of lead generation fees from our Side Hustle advertising partners as well as fees earned related to the Rewards Product for Members who make debit card spending transactions at participating merchants. Transaction based revenue, net Transaction based revenue, net consists of interchange and ATM revenues from our Checking Product, net of ATM-related fees, and are recognized at the point in time the transactions occur, as the performance obligation is satisfied. Operating expenses We classify our operating expenses into the following five categories: Provision for Unrecoverable Advances The provision for unrecoverable advances primarily consists of an allowance for unrecoverable advances at a level estimated to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in the outstanding advances receivable. We currently estimate the allowance balance required using historical loss and collections experience, and, if relevant, the nature and volume of the portfolio, economic conditions, and other factors. Changes to the allowance have a direct impact on the provision for unrecoverable advances in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. We consider advances more than 120 days past due or which become uncollectible based on information available to us as impaired. All impaired advances are deemed uncollectible and subsequently written off and are a direct reduction to the allowance for unrecoverable advances. Subsequent recoveries, if any, of Member advances written-off are recorded as a reduction to Member advances, resulting in a reduction to the allowance for unrecoverable advances and a corresponding reduction to the provision for unrecoverable advances in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations when collected. 42 Table of Contents Processing and Servicing Fees Processing and servicing fees consist of fees paid to our processing partners for the recovery of advances, tips, optional express processing fees and subscriptions. These expenses also include fees paid for services to connect Members bank accounts to our application. Except for processing and servicing fees associated with advance disbursements which are recorded net against revenue, all other processing and service fees are expensed as incurred. Advertising and Marketing Advertising and marketing expenses consist primarily of fees we pay to our platform partners. We incur advertising and marketing expenses for online, social media and television advertising and for partnerships and promotional advertising. Advertising and marketing expenses are expensed as incurred although they typically deliver a benefit over an extended period of time. Compensation and Benefits Compensation and benefits expenses represent the compensation, inclusive of stock-based compensation and benefits, that we provide to our employees and the payments we make to third-party contractors. While we have an in-house customer service function, we employ third-party contractors to conduct call center operations and handle routine customer service inquiries and support. Other Operating Expenses Other operating expenses consist primarily of technology and infrastructure (third-party Software as a Service SaaS), commitments to charity, transaction based costs (program expenses, association fees, processor fees, losses from Member-disputed transactions, and fraud), depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and intangible assets, general and recurring legal fees, rent, certain sales tax related costs, office related expenses, public relations costs, professional service fees, travel and entertainment, and insurance. Costs associated with technology and infrastructure, rent, depreciation and amortization of our property and equipment and intangible assets, professional service fees, travel and entertainment, public relations costs, utilities, office-related expenses and insurance technology and infrastructure (third-party subscriptions), depreciation and amortization of property and equipment and intangible assets, general and recurring legal fees, rent, office-related expenses, public relations costs, professional service fees, travel and entertainment and insurance vary based upon our investment in infrastructure, business development, risk management and internal controls and are generally not correlated with our operating revenues or other transaction metrics. We expect our operating expenses to increase for the foreseeable future with the growth of our business, and as a result of operating as a public company, including compliance with the rules and regulations of the SEC, legal, audit, additional insurance expenses, investor relations activities and other administrative and professional services. Other (Income) Expenses Other (income) expenses consist of interest income, interest expense, legal settlement and litigation expenses, derivative asset fair value adjustments, other strategic financing and transactional expenses, and warrant liability fair value adjustments. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists of the federal and state corporate income taxes accrued on income resulting from the sale of our services. On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was signed into law, which among other things, includes certain income tax provisions for corporations; however, these benefits did not impact our current tax provision. 43 Table of Contents Results of Operations Comparison of the Periods Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 For the Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except for percentages) $ % 2022 2021 2022/2021 2022/2021 Service based revenue, net Processing fees, net $ 20,978 $ 17,400 $ 3,578 21 % Tips 13,948 9,999 3,949 39 % Subscriptions 4,154 4,872 (718 ) -15 % Other 188 147 41 28 % Transaction based revenue, net 3,283 2,008 1,275 63 % Total $ 42,551 $ 34,426 $ 8,125 24 % Operating revenues Service based revenue, net Processing fees, net Processing fees, net of processor costs associated with advance disbursements, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were approximately $21.0 million, an increase from approximately $17.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $3.6 million, or 21%, was primarily attributable to increases in total advance volume from approximately $277.8 million to approximately $545.1 million along with a higher average advance amount period over period. Processing fees tend to increase as advance volume increases, but may not always trend ratably as processing fees vary depending on the total amount of the advance. Approximately 99% and 98% of Members chose to pay a processing fee to expedite an advance for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The average processing fees paid to expedite these advances were approximately $5.42 and $4.78 per advance, respectively. Tips Tips for the three month ended March 31, 2022 were approximately $13.9 million, an increase from approximately $10.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $3.9 million, or 39%, was primarily attributable to increases in total advance volume from approximately $277.8 million to approximately $545.1 million period over period. Tips tend to increase as advance volume increases, but may not always trend ratably as tips often vary depending on the total amount of the advance. Approximately 64% and 75% of Members chose to leave a tip for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The average amount of tip Members chose to leave was approximately $6.93 and $4.07 per advance, respectively. Subscriptions Subscriptions for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were approximately $4.2 million, a decrease from approximately $4.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease of approximately $0.7 million, or 15%, was primarily attributable to lower subscription engagement with Members on our platform. Transaction based revenue, net Transaction based revenue, net for the three months ended March 31, 2022 were approximately $3.3 million, an increase from approximately $2.0 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $1.3 million, or 63%, was primarily attributable to the growth in Members engaging with our Checking Product and corresponding growth in the number of transactions initiated by Members . 44 Table of Contents Operating expenses For the Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except for percentages) $ % 2022 2021 2022/2021 2022/2021 Provision for unrecoverable advances $ 13,785 $ 3,538 $ 10,247 290 % Processing and servicing fees 6,543 5,220 1,323 25 % Advertising and marketing 12,204 14,040 (1,836 ) -13 % Compensation and benefits 17,894 9,384 8,510 91 % Other operating expenses 14,798 12,577 2,221 18 % Total $ 65,224 $ 44,759 $ 20,465 46 % Provision for unrecoverable advances The provision for unrecoverable advances totaled approximately $13.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $3.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $10.2 million, or 290%, was primarily attributable to increases in provision expense related to Member advances aged over 120 days and those that have become uncollectible based on information available to us of approximately $1.7 million in addition to an increase in provision expense related to Member advances aged 120 days and under of approximately $8.5 million. The increase in provision expense related to Member advances aged over 120 days and those which have become uncollectible based on information available to us, period over period, was driven primarily by aged receivables and the increase in advance volume during late 2021. All impaired advances deemed uncollectible are subsequently written-off and are a direct reduction to the allowance for unrecoverable advances. The increase in provision expense related to Member advances aged 120 days and under, was primarily attributed to significant increases in advance volume from approximately $277.8 million to approximately $545.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2022, respectively. This resulted in an increase to the allowance for unrecoverable advances and corresponding higher provision for unrecoverable advances expense during the period ended March 31, 2022 as compared to March 31, 2021. We anticipate volatility in Member advances outstanding each period as they are directly correlated with the timing and volume of Member advance activity during the last 120 days prior to the end of the period. Throughout the first three months of 2022, loss and collections experience of Member advances remained steady, however, historical loss and collections experience decreased slightly when compared to historical rates used in 2021 primarily as a result of underwriting modifications made during early 2020 in response to the onset of COVID-19. These underwriting modifications primarily consisted of lower advance amounts and stricter eligibility requirements. Any changes to our historical loss and collections experience directly affects the historical loss rates utilized in the calculation of the allowance for uncollectible advances. The changes in the allowance for unrecoverable advances, period over period, has a direct impact on the provision for unrecoverable advances. For information on the aging of Member advances and a rollforward of the allowance for unrecoverable advances, refer to the tables in Note 5 to our unaudited consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q. Processing and service fees Processing and servicing fees totaled approximately $6.5 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $5.2 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $1.3 million, or 25%, was primarily attributable to the increase in advance volume from $277.8 million to $545.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, offset by volume associated discounts and cost savings due to price reductions from our processors. Advertising and marketing Advertising and marketing totaled approximately $12.2 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $14.0 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. The decrease of approximately $1.8 million or 13% was primarily attributable to decreased marketing efforts and promotions across various social media platforms and television. Compensation and benefits Compensation and benefits totaled approximately $17.9 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $9.4 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $8.5 million, or 91%, was primarily attributable to the following: an increase in payroll and related costs of approximately $5.6 million, primarily due to hiring and increased headcount throughout the business; 45 Table of Contents an increase in consultants and contractor costs of approximately $1.4 million, primarily due to our need to supplement recruiting efforts, increase IT security, marketing, and augmenting customer service resources; and an increase in stock-based compensation of approximately $1.5 million, primarily due to the cumulative expense related to stock options granted to a certain executive during 2021which achieved certain performance conditions associated with the close of the Business Combination. Other operating expenses Other operating expenses totaled approximately $14.8 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $12.6 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $2.2 million, or 18%, was primarily attributable to the following: an increase in insurance related costs of $1.8 million, primarily related to Director and Officer Insurance premiums; an increase in accounting costs of approximately $0.5 million, primarily related to various audit, tax and Sarbanes Oxley compliance readiness related fees associated with the Business Combination in January 2022; an increase in technology and infrastructure expenses of approximately $1.1 million, primarily due to increased spending to support the growth of our business and development of new products and features; an increase in expenses related to our Checking Product of approximately $1.0 million, primarily attributable to the growth in Members and the number of transactions processed; an increase in legal fees of approximately $0.6 million, primarily due to ongoing litigation, compliance, employment and general corporate related matters; an increase in various administrative fees of approximately $0.5 million primarily due to increases license and fees, travel and entertainment, and company meetings; an increase in depreciation and amortization of $0.5 million, primarily due to equipment purchases for increased headcount and amortization of internally developed software; an increase in rent expense of $0.4 million, due to additional leased office space; offset by a decrease in chargeback related expenses of approximately $4.0 million, primarily due to non-recurring fraudulent activity in relation to our Checking Product (see Risk FactorsRisks related to our Business and IndustryFraudulent and other illegal activity involving our products and services could lead to reputational damage to us, reduce the use of our platform and services and may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations.); and a decrease in charitable contribution expenses of approximately $0.2 million, primarily due to decreased amounts pledged to charitable meal donations related to increased Members tips. Other (income) expense For the Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except for percentages) $ % 2022 2021 2022/2021 2022/2021 Interest income $ (13 ) $ (70 ) $ 57 -81 % Interest expense 1,555 277 1,278 461 % Legal settlement and litigation expenses 368 (368 ) -100 % Other strategic financing and transactional expenses 961 108 853 790 % Changes in fair value of derivative asset on loans to stockholders 5,572 (17,146 ) 22,718 -132 % Changes in fair value of warrant liability 4,065 2,186 1,879 86 % Total $ 12,140 $ (14,277 ) $ 26,417 -185 % Interest expense Interest expense totaled approximately $1.6 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $0.3 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $1.3 million, or 461%, was primarily attributable to interest related to the Debt Facility which we entered into during January 2021, and was subsequently amended in November 2021 to include the Credit Facility, along with interest related to the convertible note with FTX Ventures entered into during March 2022. 46 Table of Contents Legal settlement and litigation expenses Legal settlement and litigation expenses totaled approximately $0 for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $0.4 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. See Information About Dave Legal Proceedings for more information regarding pending legal actions. The decrease of approximately $0.4 million, or 100%, was primarily attributable to reduced non-recurring settlement and litigation expenses as compared to those expenses recorded during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Other strategic financing and transactional expenses Other strategic financing and transactional expenses totaled approximately $1.0 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to approximately $0.1 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $0.9 million, or 790%, was primarily attributable to spending on legal, audit and compliance related expenses associated with the Business Combination during the three months ended March 31, 2022. Changes in fair value of derivative asset on loans to stockholders Changes in fair value of derivative asset on loans to stockholders totaled a charge of approximately $5.6 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to a benefit of $17.1 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $22.7 million, or 132%, was primarily attributable to fair value adjustments associated with options issued in connection with loans to stockholders resulting from a decrease in the underlying fair value of our common stock as of the settlement date of the derivative asset compared to the benefit received from the increase in the fair value of our common stock during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Changes in fair value of warrant liability Changes in fair value of warrant liability totaled approximately $4.1 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, compared to $2.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase of approximately $1.9 million, or 86%, was primarily attributable to fair value adjustments associated with certain public and private warrant liabilities due to decreases in our underlying common stock price, offset by fair value adjustments associated with certain warrants exercised during the Business Combination. Provision for income taxes For the Three Months Ended March 31, Change (in thousands, except for percentages) $ % 2022 2021 2022/2021 2022/2021 Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 22 $ (8 ) $ 30 -375 % Total $ 22 $ (8 ) $ 30 -375 % Provision (benefit) for income taxes for the period ended March 31, 2022 increased by approximately $0.03 million or -375%, compared to the period ended March 31, 2021. This increase was primarily attributable to a decrease in the federal deferred tax benefit relative to the benefit recognized for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Non-GAAP Financial Measures In addition to our results determined in accordance with GAAP, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful in evaluating our operational performance. We use the following non-GAAP measures to evaluate our ongoing operations and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. We believe that non-GAAP financial information, when taken collectively, may be helpful in assessing our operating performance and are more indicative of our operational performance and facilitate an alternative comparison among fiscal periods. These non-GAAP financial measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP reporting measures. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net (loss) income adjusted for interest expense (income), provision (benefit) for income taxes, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation and other discretionary items determined by management. Adjusted EBITDA is intended as a supplemental measure of our performance that is neither required by, nor presented in accordance with, GAAP. We believe that the use of Adjusted EBITDA provides an additional tool for investors to use in evaluating ongoing operating results and trends and in comparing our financial measures with those of comparable companies, which may present similar non-GAAP financial measures to investors. However, you should be aware that, when evaluating Adjusted EBITDA, we may incur future expenses similar to those excluded when calculating these measures. In addition, our presentation of these measures should not be construed as an inference that our future results will be unaffected by unusual or non-recurring items. Our computation of Adjusted EBITDA may not be comparable to other similarly titled measures computed by other companies, because all companies may not calculate Adjusted EBITDA in the same fashion. 47 Table of Contents Because of these limitations, Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for performance measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using Adjusted EBITDA on a supplemental basis. The reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA below should be reviewed and no single financial measure should be relied upon to evaluate our business. The following table reconciles net (loss) income to Adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively: (in thousands) For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net (loss) income $ (34,835 ) $ 3,952 Interest expense 1,542 207 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 22 (8 ) Depreciation and amortization 1,105 598 Stock-based compensation 3,190 1,694 Legal settlement and litigation expenses 368 Other strategic financing and transactional expenses 961 108 Changes in fair value of derivative asset on loans to stockholders 5,572 (17,146 ) Changes in fair value of warrant liability 4,065 2,186 Total $ (18,378 ) $ (8,041 ) Liquidity and Capital Resources Since inception, we have financed our operations primarily from the issuance of preferred stock through our Series A and Series B funding rounds, issuances of convertible notes, funds from borrowings under a Senior Secured Loan Facility (the Debt Facility) with Victory Park Management, LLC, (as amended in November 2021 to include a $20 million credit line, the Credit Agreement), and funds as a result of the Business Combination that took place as on January 5, 2022. As of March 31, 2022 and 2021, our cash and marketable securities balances were approximately $302.3 million and $37.6 million, respectively. As an early-stage company, the expenses we have incurred since inception are consistent with our strategy and approach to capital allocation. Dave expects to incur net losses in accordance with our operating plan as we continue to expand and improve upon our financial platform. Our ability to access capital when needed is not assured and, if capital is not available to Dave when, and in the amounts needed, Dave could be required to delay, scale back or abandon some or all of our development programs and other operations, which could materially harm our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results. We believe that our cash on hand following the consummation of the Business Combination, including the net proceeds of VPCCs cash in trust and the proceeds from the PIPE Investment and any alternative financing, along with the $100 million in cash from the Purchase Agreement with FTX Ventures should be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for a period of at least 12 months from the date of this Form 10-Q and sufficient to fund our operations. We may raise additional capital through follow-on public offerings or debt financings. The amount and timing of our future funding requirements, if any, will depend on many factors, including the pace and results of our research and development efforts. No assurances can be provided that additional funding will be available at terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital, we may significantly curtail our operations, modify existing strategic plans and/or dispose of certain operations or assets. Material Cash Requirements While the effect of COVID-19 has created economic uncertainty and impacted how we manage our liquidity and capital resources, we intend to continue to invest in people, marketing and user acquisition, technology and infrastructure, and new and existing financial products and programs we believe are critical to meeting our strategic objectives. As growth of our ExtraCash product scales, material cash will be required to fund advances until the point at which those advances are subsequently collected. The amount and timing of these related cash outflows in future periods is difficult to predict and is 48 Table of Contents dependent on a number of factors including the hiring of new employees, the rate of change in technology used in our business and our business outlook as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. While we expect certain cash outflows for these expenditures will exceed amounts spent in 2021, we expect to fund these cash outflows primarily through our cash flows provided by operating, investing and financing activities. We may use cash to acquire businesses and technologies. The nature of these transactions, however, makes it difficult to predict the amount and timing of such cash requirements. In the normal course of business, we enter into various agreements with our vendors that may subject us to minimum annual requirements. While our contractual commitments will have an impact on our future liquidity, we believe that we will be able to adequately fulfill these obligations through cash generated from operations and from our existing cash balances. Dave does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined by the SEC regulations In response to our remote employee workforce strategy in the U.S., we have not yet closed our leased office locations. We are required to continue making our contractual payments until our operating leases are formally terminated or expire. Our remaining leases have terms of less than 1 year to approximately 4 years, subject to renewal options of varying terms, and as of March 31, 2022, we had a total lease liability of approximately $2.4 million. See Note 14Leases of the Notes to our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our lease liabilities as of March 31, 2022. We also have certain contractual payment obligations for principal and interest owed under the $100 million delayed draw credit facility of the Credit Facility. Interest payments are required to be made on a monthly basis. At March 31, 2022, $35.0 million of term loans under the Credit Agreement were outstanding and $20.0 million has been drawn on the credit line under the Credit Facility. Additionally, we also have certain contractual payment obligations for interest owed under our Purchase Agreement entered into with FTX Ventures. Interest payments relating to the $100 million convertible note are required to be made on a semi-annual basis. At March 31, 2022, approximately $0.8 million of interest was accrued. For more information on the Purchase Agreement with FTX Ventures, see Recent Developments. Cash Flows Summary Total cash (used in) provided by: For the Three Months Ended March 31, (in thousands) 2022 2021 Operating activities $ (37,479 ) $ 2,619 Investing activities (272,601 ) 610 Financing activities 301,724 15,569 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (8,356 ) $ 18,798 Cash Flows From Operating Activities We recorded a net loss of approximately $34.8 million for the period ended March 31, 2022, and net income of approximately $4.0 million for the period ended March 31, 2021. We reported negative cash flows from operating activities of approximately $37.5 million and cash flows from operating activities of approximately $2.6 million for the periods ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net cash used in operating activities for the period ended March 31, 2022 included a net loss of approximately $34.8 million, adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $1.1 million for depreciation and amortization, approximately $13.8 million for provision for unrecoverable advances, approximately $4.1 million for an increase in warrant liability fair value, approximately $3.2 million for stock-based compensation expense, and approximately $5.6 million for a decrease in derivative asset fair value. Further changes in cash flows from operations included an increase in Member advances of approximately $26.6 million, an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of approximately $4.8 million, an increase in accrued expenses of approximately $1.0 million, and a decrease in other current liabilities of approximately $0.3 million. These changes were offset primarily by an increase in accounts payable of approximately $2.5 million. Net cash used in operating activities for the period ended March 31, 2021 included net income of approximately $4.0 million, adjusted for non-cash items of approximately $2.8 million for depreciation and amortization, approximately $3.5 million for the provision for unrecoverable advances, approximately $17.1 million for an increase in derivative asset fair value, approximately $2.2 million for an increase in warrant liability fair value, and approximately $1.7 million for stock-based compensation expense. Further changes in cash flows from operations included a decrease in Member advances of approximately $5.0 million, a decrease in prepaid income taxes of approximately $0.8 million, a 49 Table of Contents decrease in accrued expenses of approximately $1.6 million and a decrease in accounts payable of approximately $0.2 million. These changes were offset primarily by a decrease in other current liabilities of approximately $1.5 million and an increase in prepaid expenses and other current assets of approximately $0.5 million. Cash Flows From Investing Activities During the period ended March 31, 2022, net cash used in investing activities was approximately $272.6 million. This included the purchase of marketable securities of approximately $302.1 million, the capitalization of internally developed software costs of approximately $2.3 million and the purchase of property and equipment of approximately $0.2 million, offset by the sale of marketable securities of approximately $32.0 million. During the period ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by investing activities was approximately $0.6 million. This included the sale of marketable securities of approximately $3.9 million, partially offset by the capitalization of internally developed software costs of approximately $3.3 million. Cash Flows From Financing Activities During the period ended March 31, 2022, net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $301.7 million, which consisted of $195.0 million in proceeds from PIPE offering, $100.0 million in proceeds from borrowings related to the Purchase Agreement with FTX Ventures, approximately $29.7 million in proceeds from the Business Combination, net of redemptions and approximately $1.6 million in proceeds from stock option exercises, partially offset by approximately $22.9 million for the payment of costs related to the Business Combination and approximately $1.6 million related to the repurchase of common stock. For more information on the Business Combination and Purchase Agreement with FTX Ventures, see Business Combination and Public Company Costs and Recent Developments, respectively During the period ended March 31, 2021, net cash provided by financing activities was approximately $15.6 million, which consisted of $19.0 million in debt and credit facility borrowings, offset against approximately $3.9 million of repayments on a line of credit. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S GAAP. The preparation of these unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported revenues and expenses incurred during the reporting periods. Our estimates are based on our historical experience and on various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our critical accounting estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis including those related to the: (i) realization of tax assets and estimates of tax liabilities; (ii) valuation of equity securities; (iii) fair value of derivatives; (iv) valuation of notes payable; (v) fair value of warrant liabilities; and (vi) allowance for unrecoverable advances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that the accounting policies discussed below are critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. Please refer to Note 2 in our accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2022 included in this Form 10-Q. While our significant accounting policies are described in the notes to our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, we believe that the following accounting policies require a greater degree of judgment and complexity and are the most critical to understanding our financial condition and historical and future results of operations. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We are required to account for certain financial instruments at fair value with changes in fair value reported in earnings and may elect fair value accounting for certain other financial instruments in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Financial instruments carried at fair value include marketable securities, derivative assets related to loans to stockholders, and warrant liabilities. 50 Table of Contents We apply the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , which provides a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value and expands on required disclosures about fair value measurement. Fair value represents the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. We use the following hierarchy in measuring the fair value of our assets and liabilities, focusing on the most observable inputs when available: Level 1. Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2. Observable inputs other than Level 1 quoted prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices in markets that are not active for identical or similar assets and liabilities, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 3. Valuations are based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement of the assets or liabilities. Inputs reflect managements best estimate of what market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date. Consideration is given to the risk inherent in the valuation technique and the risk inherent in the inputs to the model. Valuation techniques used to measure fair value must maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Derivative Asset We recorded a derivative asset related to the call option on loans to stockholders. The derivative asset was carried at estimated fair value on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets. Changes in the estimated fair value of the derivatives were reported as a loss (gain) on derivatives in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. We utilized the binomial option pricing model to compute the fair value of the derivative asset and to mark to market the fair value of the derivative at each balance sheet date. The binomial option-pricing model considers a range of assumptions related to the fair value of common stock (see below Fair Value of Common Stock for further details), volatility, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. The binomial option pricing model includes subjective input assumptions that can materially affect the fair value estimates. Upon consummation of the business combination in January 2022, all of the call options related to the Loans to Stockholders were exercised and the related loans were settled. Warrant Liabilities We recorded a warrant liability associated with the Debt Facility. The warrant liability was carried on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as a long-term liability estimated at fair value. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability were reported as a loss (gain) in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. We utilized the binomial option-pricing model to compute the fair value and to mark to market the fair value of the warrant liability at each unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet date. The binomial option-pricing model considers a range of assumptions related to the fair value of common stock (see below Fair Value of Common Stock for further details), volatility, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. The binomial option pricing model includes subjective input assumptions that can materially affect the fair value estimates. Immediately prior to the close of the Business Combination, all, or 1,664,394 of the vested warrants were exercised and net settled for 450,841 shares of Legacy Daves Class A Common Stock after applying an exchange ratio of 1.354387513 pursuant to the terms of the Business Combination. We also recorded warrant liabilities for both public and private warrants associated with the Business Combination. The warrant liabilities are carried on our unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets as a long-term liability estimated at fair value. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrant liability are reported as a loss (gain) in the accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. We utilize the Black-Scholes model to compute the fair value and to mark to market the fair value of the private placement warrant liability at the time of the Business Combination and at each unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheet date. The public warrants were valued using the Black Scholes model and public trading price of the warrants, when available. The Black-Scholes model considers a range of assumptions such as stock price, strike price, volatility, time to maturity, dividend yield and risk-free interest rate. The Black-Scholes pricing model includes subjective input assumptions that can materially affect the fair value estimates. Note Payable The Company has elected to measure the note payable debt instrument at fair value using the fair value option of ASC 825-10. We identified an embedded derivative related to a convertible feature in our promissory note with Alameda Research and in accordance with ASC 815-15-25-1 criterion (b), since we have elected to apply the fair value option to the 51 Table of Contents debt, the Contingently Exercisable Share Settled Put/Call Option and any other embedded features were not be separated from the debt host. The note payable was carried on our consolidated balance sheets as a current liability estimated at fair value with changes in fair value reflected in earnings. We used a market yield approach to determine the fair value of the promissory note. The market yield approach model includes subjective input assumptions that can materially affect the fair value estimates. Upon the Closing of the Business Combination, the Promissory Note was automatically discharged upon the Companys issuance of 1,500,000 shares of Class A Common Stock to Alameda Research. The closing of the note payable occurred immediately prior to the closing date of the Business Combination. Fair Value of Common Stock Up until the Closing of the Business Combination in which the Company became publicly traded on Nasdaq, the Company was required to estimate the fair value of the Common Stock underlying the Companys share-based awards The fair value of the common stock underlying our stock-based awards was determined, in each case, based on a valuation model as discussed further below, and was approved by our Board of Directors. Our Board of Directors intended all stock options granted to be exercisable at a price per share not less than the fair value per share of the ordinary share underlying those stock options on the date of grant. In the absence of a public market for our Common Stock prior to the date of the Business Combination, the valuation has been determined using appropriate valuation methodologies in accordance with the guidelines outlined in the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants Practice Guide, Valuation of Privately Held Company Equity Securities Issued as Compensation. We considered various objective and subjective factors to determine the fair value of our Common Stock as of each grant date, including: Historical financial performance; Our business strategy; Industry information, such as external market conditions and trends; Likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, such as an initial public offering, SPAC merger, or strategic sale given prevailing market conditions and the nature and history of our business; Prices, privileges, powers, preferences and rights of our convertible preferred stock relative to those of Dave Common Stock; Forecasted cash flow projections for Daves business; Publicly traded price of the special purpose acquisition company (SPAC); Primary preferred stock financings and secondary common stock transactions of our equity securities; Lack of marketability/illiquidity of the common stock underlying our stock-based awards involving securities in a private company; and Macroeconomic conditions. The assumptions underlying these valuations represented managements best estimate, which involved inherent uncertainties and the application of managements judgment. The probability of a liquidity event, the derived discount rate, and the selected multiples that are applied to our financial statistics are significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of our common stock. If we had used different assumptions or estimates, the fair value of our common stock and our stock-based compensation expense could have been materially different. During 2019 and 2020, our estimated fair value of our common stock remained relatively consistent before a potential public listing through a business combination with a special purpose acquisition company was first considered in 2021 (SPAC Transaction). The fair value for our common stock was estimated to be $0.935 per share as of August 5, 2019 (August 2019 Valuation) and $0.981 per share as of August 30, 2020 (August 2020 Valuation). In 2021, our management team first contemplated a SPAC Transaction, which was incorporated in the June 7, 2021 valuation that resulted in a fair value for our common stock of $8.67 per share (June 2021 Valuation). The SPAC Transaction was considered in the subsequent valuation performed as of October 6, 2021 that resulted in a fair value for Daves common stock of $10.80 per share (October 2021 Valuation). 52 Table of Contents The August 2019 Valuation and August 2020 Valuations were completed prior to the contemplation of the Business Combination, and at the time of these valuations our management did not expect a near-term exit. The August 2019 Valuation was performed at the time of the close of Daves Series B-1 and B-2 preferred equity financings (Series B Financing). Since no near-term exit was expected, the August 2019 Valuation was performed using the market approach, specifically the subject company transaction method was performed using a single option pricing model (OPM) as the allocation method. As a result, the fair value of our common stock was inferred from the Series B Financing. The August 2020 Valuation was performed using the market approach, specifically the guideline public company method (GPCM) and used a single OPM as the allocation methodology. The GPCM was performed by first considering the Series B Financings implied revenue multiple from the August 2019 valuation report, and then was adjusted based on changes in the guideline public companys multiples since the Series B Financing occurred, with consideration for adjustments based on our comparative operational performance between the periods. The June 2021 Valuation and October 2021 Valuation both used the hybrid method, wherein a probability-weighted expected return model (PWERM) incorporated an expected near-term SPAC exit scenario as well as an OPM. The OPM was used to model the value of common stock in a delayed exit/stay private scenario. Total equity values for each scenario management identified were estimated as of the measurement date. The delayed exit/stay private scenario total equity value was estimated using the discounted cash flow method under the income approach and the GPCM under the market approach. The total equity value in the SPAC Transaction scenario included in the June 2021 Valuation was determined based on the expected Business Combination pre-money valuation. The common stock price per share in the SPAC Transaction scenario included in the October 2021 Valuation was determined based on the publicly traded price of the SPAC as of the valuation date. Our managements estimated probability for each scenario occurring at each valuation date was applied to the respective scenarios indicated common stock value to arrive at the estimated fair value of common stock. The increase in the fair value of our common stock between the August 2019 and August 2020 Valuations, and the June 2021 Valuation and the October 2021 Valuation was predominantly due to our progress towards completing the Business Combination that was not known or knowable at the earlier valuation dates. As previously discussed, the August 2019 Valuation utilized the Series B financing to determine the value of common stock in a single OPM. The August 2020 Valuation relied upon the GPCM with valuation multiples selected considering the implied multiples at the time of the Series B Financing, with appropriate adjustments to the multiples to account for changes in our financial and operational performance as well as to reflect changes in the guideline public companies multiples and comparative performance, from the close of the Series B financing to the August 2020 valuation date. In early 2021, we first contemplated a SPAC Transaction and began taking the necessary steps to prepare for a business combination with VPCC. The necessary steps undertaken to prepare for the Business Combination included meeting with VPCC and investment bankers, discussing timing expectations, and negotiating the preliminary letter of intent with VPCC. As our ongoing negotiations related to the Business Combination reflected an increased likelihood of a near-term exit transaction and/or liquidity event, the valuation of Daves equity as of the June 2021 Valuation took into consideration the indicated equity value implied by the negotiations as well as the uncertainty inherent in the future key milestones including execution of the Business Combination Agreement and VPCCs shareholder vote. Similarly, the increase in the common stock value to $10.80 per share in the October 2021 Valuation resulted primarily from an increase in the probability of the near-term SPAC Transaction closing and an increase in the value of common stock in that scenario due to the passage of time and an increase in the SPACs publicly traded price as compared to the SPAC Transactions negotiated pre-money valuation. As a result, the increase in Daves common stock fair value between the valuation dates resulted directly from both the increase in the pre-money valuation and acceleration of the timing of an exit, from the Series B Financing to the Business Combination. Please refer to Note 2 in our accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements for the period ended March 31, 2022 included in this Form 10-Q. Allowance for Unrecoverable Advances We maintain an allowance for unrecoverable advances at a level estimated to be adequate to absorb credit losses inherent in outstanding Member advances. We currently estimate the allowance balance required using historical loss and collections experience, and, if relevant, the nature and volume of the portfolio, economic conditions, and other factors. Interpretations of the nature of volume of the portfolio and projections of future economic conditions involve a high degree of subjectivity. Changes to the allowance have a direct impact on the provision for unrecoverable advances in the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of operations. 53 Table of Contents We consider advances over 120 days past due or which become uncollectible based on information available to us as impaired. All impaired advances are deemed uncollectible and subsequently written-off and are a direct reduction to the allowance for unrecoverable advances. Subsequent recoveries of Member advances written-off, if any, are recorded as a reduction to Member advances when collected, resulting in a reduction to the allowance for unrecoverable advances and a corresponding reduction to the provision for unrecoverable advances expense in the unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations. Income Taxes We follow ASC 740, Income Taxes (ASC 740), which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are based on the differences between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the period in which the differences are expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance to the extent management concludes it is more-likely-than-not that the asset will not be realized. ASC 740 provides that a tax benefit from an uncertain tax position may be recognized when it is more-likely-than-not that the position will be sustained in a court of last resort, based on the technical merits. If more-likely-than-not, the amount recognized is the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon examination, including compromise settlements. For tax positions not meeting the more-likely-than-not threshold, no tax benefit is recorded. We have estimated approximately $0.5 million of uncertain tax positions as of both March 31, 2022 and 2021, related to state income taxes and research tax credits. Our policy is to recognize interest and penalties accrued on any unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense within the statement of operations. We recognized approximately $0.001 million and $0.002 million of interest expense and penalties as a component of income tax expense during the periods ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. There was approximately $0.008 million and $0.007 million of accrued interest and penalties as of March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. We are subject to income tax in jurisdictions in which we operate, including the United States. For U.S. income tax purposes, we are taxed as a Subchapter C corporation. We recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial statement and income tax purposes. We recorded a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, net of certain deferred tax liabilities, at March 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. Based upon managements assessment of all available evidence, we have concluded that it is more-likely-than-not that the deferred tax assets, net of certain deferred tax liabilities, will not be realized. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company as defined in Section 2(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and has elected to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period for new or revised financial accounting standards. We expect to remain an emerging growth company and to continue to take advantage of the benefits of the extended transition period, although we may decide to early adopt such new or revised accounting standards to the extent permitted by such standards. We expect to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and non-public companies until the earlier of the date we (i) are no longer an emerging growth company or (ii) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. This may make it difficult or impossible to compare our financial results with the financial results of another public company that is either not an emerging growth company or is an emerging growth company that has chosen not to take advantage of the extended transition period exemptions because of the potential differences in accounting standards used. See Note 2 of our accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for the recent accounting pronouncements adopted and the recent accounting pronouncements not yet adopted for the periods ended March 31, 2022 and 2021. In addition, we intend to rely on the other exemptions and reduced reporting requirements provided by the JOBS Act. Subject to certain conditions set forth in the JOBS Act, if, as an emerging growth company, we intend to rely on such exemptions, we are not required to, among other things: (a) provide an auditors attestation report on our system of internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; (b) provide all of the compensation disclosure that may be required of non-emerging growth public companies under the Dodd- Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; (c) comply with any requirement that may be adopted by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board regarding mandatory audit firm rotation or a supplement to the auditors report providing additional information about the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements (auditor discussion and analysis); and (d) disclose certain executive compensation-related items such as the correlation between executive compensation and performance and comparisons of the Chief Executive Officers compensation to median employee compensation. 54 Table of Contents We will remain an emerging growth company under the JOBS Act until the earliest of (1) the last day of the fiscal year (a) following March 4, 2026, (b) in which we have total annual gross revenue of at least $1.07 billion, (c) in which we are deemed to be a large accelerated filer under the rules of the SEC, which means the market value of our common equity that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the end of the prior fiscal years second fiscal quarter; and (2) the date on which we have issued more than $1.0 billion in non-convertible debt securities during the previous three years. Recently Issued Accounting Standards Refer to Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, of our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-Q for a discussion of the impact of recent accounting pronouncements.