Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our purchasing team is also responsible for managing the procurement of non-food items for our restaurants, including restaurant equipment, small wares and restaurant supplies. Also, they contract many of our restaurants repair and maintenance services along with managing our utility costs. Information Technology Famous Daves recognizes the importance of leveraging information and technology to support and extend our competitive position in the restaurant industry. We continue to invest in capabilities that provide secure and efficient operations, maximize the guest experience, and provide the ability to analyze data that describes our operations. We have implemented a suite of restaurant and general headquarter systems which support operations by providing transactional functions (ordering, card processing, etc.) and reporting at both the unit and support center level. Interfaces between Point-of-Sale (POS), labor management, inventory management, menu management, key suppliers, and employee screening/hiring and financial systems all contribute to the following operator and corporate visibility: Average guest check broken down by location, by server, by day part, and by revenue center; Daily reports of revenue and labor (both current and forecasted); Weekly reports of selected controllable restaurant expenses; Monthly reporting of detailed revenue and expenses; and Ideal vs. actual usage variance reporting for critical restaurant-level materials Trademarks Our Company has registered various trademarks, makes use of various unregistered marks, and intends to vigorously defend these marks. Famous Daves and the Famous Daves logo are registered trademarks of Famous Daves of America, Inc. The Company highly values its trademarks, trade names and service marks and will defend against any improper use of its marks to the fullest extent allowable by law. Franchise Program We are currently authorized to offer and sell franchises in 48 of 50 states, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the United Arab Emirates, and have a Canadian franchise disclosure document available. Our growth and success depends in part upon our ability to attract, contract with and retain qualified franchisees. It also depends upon the ability of those franchisees to successfully operate their restaurants with our standards of quality and promote and develop Famous Daves brand awareness. Although we have established criteria to evaluate prospective franchisees, and our franchise agreements include certain operating standards, each franchisee operates his/her restaurants independently. Various laws limit our ability to influence the day-to-day operation of our franchise restaurants. We cannot assure you that franchisees will be able to successfully operate Famous Daves restaurants in a manner consistent with our standards for operational excellence, service and food quality. At January 1, 2017, we had 35 ownership groups operating 139 Famous Daves franchise restaurants. Signed area development agreements, representing commitments to open an additional 62 franchise restaurants, were in place as of January 1, 2017. There can be no assurance that these franchisees will fulfill their commitments or fulfill them within the anticipated timeframe. 9 Table of Contents As of January 1, 2017, we had franchise-operated restaurants in the following locations: United States Number of Franchise-Operated Restaurants Arizona 6 California 19 Colorado 6 Delaware 2 Florida 3 Idaho 2 Illinois 10 Indiana 4 Iowa 3 Kansas 2 Kentucky 2 Maine 1 Maryland 1 Michigan 7 Minnesota 4 Missouri 2 Montana 4 Nebraska 4 Nevada 6 New Jersey 1 New York 2 North Dakota 3 Oregon 2 Ohio 2 Pennsylvania 4 South Dakota 2 Tennessee 5 Texas 3 Utah 3 Washington 7 Wisconsin 10 United States Total 132 The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico 4 Canada 1 United Arab Emirates 2 Total franchise-operated restaurants 139 Our Franchise Operations Department is led by the Chief Executive and Operating Officer, who guides the efforts of a Sr. Vice President of Franchise Operations, supported by four Franchise Business Consultants. The Sr. Vice President of Franchise Operations has the responsibility of supporting our franchisees throughout the system and plays 10 Table of Contents a critical role for us as well as for our franchise community. The Sr. Vice President of Franchise Operations as well as the Franchise Business Consultants manages the relationship between the franchisee and the franchisor and provides an understanding of the roles, responsibilities, differences, and accountabilities of that relationship. They are an active participant towards enhancing performance, as they partner in strategic and operations planning sessions with our franchise partners and review the individual strategies and tactics for obtaining superior performance for the franchisee. They ensure compliance with obligations under our area development and franchise agreements. Franchisees are encouraged to utilize all available assistance from the Sr. Vice President of Franchise Operations and the Franchise Business Consultants and the Support Center but are not required to do so. The Company has a comprehensive operations scorecard and training tool that helps us measure the operational effectiveness of our Company-owned and franchise-operated restaurants. This scorecard is used to evaluate, monitor and improve operations in areas such as guest satisfaction, health and safety standards, community involvement, and local store marketing effectiveness, among other operating metrics. Also, we generally provide support as it relates to all aspects of franchise operations including, but not limited to, store openings and operating performance. Finally, the Company solicits feedback from our franchise system by having an active dialogue with all franchisees throughout the year. Our franchise-related revenue is comprised of three separate and distinct earnings processes: area development fees, initial franchise fees and continuing royalty payments. Currently, our area development fee for domestic growth consists of a one-time, non-refundable payment of approximately $10,000 per restaurant in consideration for the services we perform in preparation of executing each area development agreement. For our foreign area development agreements, the one time, non-refundable payment is negotiated on a per development agreement basis and is determined based on the costs incurred to sell that development agreement. Substantially all of these services, which include, but are not limited to, conducting market and trade area analysis, a meeting with Famous Daves Executive Team, and performing a potential franchise background investigation, are completed prior to our execution of the area development agreement and receipt of the corresponding area development fee. As a result, we recognize this fee in full upon receipt. Currently, our initial, non-refundable, franchise fee for domestic growth is $45,000 per restaurant, of which approximately $5,000 is recognized immediately when a franchise agreement is signed, reflecting expenses incurred related to the sale. The remaining non-refundable fee is included in deferred franchise fees and is recognized as revenue when we have performed substantially all of our obligations, which generally occurs upon the franchise entering into a lease agreement for the restaurant(s). Finally, franchisees are also required to pay us a monthly royalty equal to a percentage of their net sales, which has historically varied from 4% to 5%. In general, new franchises pay us a monthly royalty of 5% of their net sales. The franchisees investment depends primarily upon restaurant size. This investment includes the area development fee, initial franchise fee, real estate and leasehold improvements, fixtures and equipment, POS systems, business licenses, deposits, initial food inventory, small wares, dcor and training fees as well as working capital. In 2016, franchisees were required to contribute 1.0% of net sales to a marketing fund dedicated to building system-wide brand awareness. In 2017, franchisees will be required to contribute 1.0% of net sales to the marketing fund. Additionally, franchisees have historically spent 1.5% to 2.0% of their net sales annually on local marketing activities. Currently, franchisees are required to spend approximately 1.5% of their net sales annually on local marketing activities. Seasonality Our restaurants typically generate higher revenue in the second and third quarters of our fiscal year as a result of seasonal traffic increases and high catering sales experienced during the summer months, and lower revenue in the first and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, due to possible adverse weather which can disrupt guest and team member transportation to our restaurants. Government Regulation Our Company is subject to extensive state and local government regulation by various governmental agencies, including state and local licensing, zoning, land use, construction and environmental regulations and various regulations relating to the sale of food and alcoholic beverages, sanitation, disposal of refuse and waste products, public health, safety and fire standards. Our restaurants are subject to periodic inspections by governmental agencies to ensure conformity with such regulations. Any difficulty or failure to obtain required licensing or other regulatory 11 Table of Contents approvals could delay or prevent the opening of a new restaurant, and the suspension of, or inability to renew a license, could interrupt operations at an existing restaurant, any of which would adversely affect our operations. Restaurant operating costs are also affected by other government actions that are beyond our control, including increases in minimum hourly wage requirements, workers compensation insurance rates, health care insurance costs, property and casualty insurance, and unemployment and other taxes. We are also subject to dram-shop statutes, which generally provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. As a franchisor, we are subject to federal regulation and certain state laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. Bills have been introduced in Congress from time to time that would provide for federal regulation of substantive aspects of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. As proposed, such legislation would limit, among other things, the duration and scope of non-competition provisions, the ability of a franchisor to terminate or refuse to renew a franchise, and the ability of a franchisor to designate sources of supply. The 1990 Federal Americans with Disabilities Act prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability in public accommodations and employment. We could be required to incur costs to modify our restaurants in order to provide service to, or make reasonable accommodations for, disabled persons. Our restaurants are currently designed to be accessible to the disabled, and we believe we are in substantial compliance with all current applicable regulations relating to this Act. Team Members As of January 1, 2017, we employed approximately 1,645 team members of which approximately 173 were salaried full-time employees. None of our team members are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We consider our relationships with our team members to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Famous Daves makes written and oral statements from time to time, including statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding its business and prospects, such as projections of future performance, statements of managements plans and objectives, forecasts of market trends and other matters that are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Statements containing the words or phrases will likely result, anticipates, are expected to, will continue, is anticipated, estimates, projects, believes, expects, intends, target, goal, plans, objective, should or similar expressions identify forward-looking statements which may appear in documents, reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, news releases, written or oral presentations made by our officers or other representatives to analysts, shareholders, investors, news organizations, and others, and discussions with our management and other Company representatives. For such statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our future results, including results related to forward-looking statements, involve a number of risks and uncertainties. No assurance can be given that the results reflected in any forward-looking statements will be achieved. Any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf speak only as of the date on which such statement is made. Our forward-looking statements are based upon our managements current estimates and projections of future results or trends. Although we believe that our plans and objectives reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are reasonable, we may not achieve these plans or objectives. In addition, forward-looking statements may reflect assumptions that are sometimes based upon estimates, data, communications and other information from suppliers, government agencies and other sources that may be subject to revision. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, we do not undertake any obligation to update or keep current either (i) any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of such statement, or (ii) the important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or which are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement which may be made by us or on our behalf. In addition to other matters identified or described by us from time to time in filings with the SEC, including the risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, there are several important factors that could cause our future results to differ materially from historical results or trends, results anticipated or planned by us, or results that are reflected from time to time in any forward-looking statement that may be made by us or on our behalf. 12 Table of Contents Challenging economic conditions may have a negative effect on our business and financial results. The restaurant industry is affected by macro-economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. Challenging economic conditions may negatively impact consumer spending and thus cause a decline in our financial results. For example, international, domestic and regional economic conditions, consumer income levels, financial market volatility, social unrest, governmental, political and budget matters and a slow or stagnant pace of economic growth generally may have a negative effect on consumer confidence and discretionary spending. In recent years, we believe these factors and conditions have affected consumer traffic and comparable restaurant sales for us and throughout our industry and may continue to result in a challenging sales environment in the casual dining sector. A decline in economic conditions or negative developments with respect to any of the other factors mentioned above, generally or in particular markets in which we or our franchisees operate, and our Guests reactions to these trends could result in increased pressure with respect to our pricing, traffic levels, commodity and other costs and the continuation of our innovation and productivity initiatives, which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. These factors could also cause us or our franchisees to, among other things, reduce the number and frequency of new restaurant openings, impair the assets of or close restaurants as well as delay remodeling of existing restaurant locations. Further, poor economic conditions may force nearby businesses to shut down, which could cause our restaurant locations to be less attractive. A failure to maintain continued compliance with the financial covenants of our credit facility may result in termination of the credit facility and may have a material adverse effect on our ability to accomplish our business objectives. At April 3, 2016, July 3, 2016, and October 2, 2016, we were not in compliance with financial covenants under our Credit Agreement (the Credit Agreement) with Wells Fargo, National Association as administrative agent and lender (Wells Fargo). As a result of breaches of our financial covenants in the first, second, and third quarters of fiscal 2016 with Wells Fargo, National Association as administrative agent and lender (Wells Fargo), the Company refinanced its Credit Facility with Venture Bank (the Lender) with three separate loans. The First Loan agreement is a $3.7 million loan and is evidenced by a promissory note (the Loan 1). The Second Loan agreement provides for two separate loans from the Lender to the borrowers set forth therein in aggregate principal amount of $7.3 million, one in the principal amount of $6.3 million (Loan 2) and other principal amount of $1.0 million (Loan 3). At the end of the fiscal 2016, the Company had additional borrowing capacity with Loan 3. Depending on the duration of the Companys recovery, our ability to comply with financial covenants under our credit facility on a continuing basis may be adversely affected. These financial covenants include, among other things, a minimum debt service coverage ratio. In the event we fail to comply with these or other financial covenants in the future and are unable to obtain similar amendments or waivers, our lender will have the right to demand repayment of all principal amounts outstanding under the Loan 1, Loan 2, or Loan 3. At January 1, 2017, principal amounts outstanding on Loan 1 was $3.7 million, principal amounts outstanding on Loan 2 was $6.3 million and there were no principal amounts outstanding for Loan 3. If we were unable to repay outstanding amounts, either using current cash reserves, a replacement facility or another source of capital, our lender would have the right to foreclose on our real estate and personal property, which serves as collateral for the loans. Replacement financing may be unavailable to us on similar terms or at all. Termination of our existing loans without adequate replacement, either through a similar facility or other sources of capital, would have a material and adverse impact on our ability to continue our business operations. Our future revenue, operating income, and cash flows are dependent on consumer preference and our ability to successfully execute our plan. Our Companys future revenue and operating income will depend upon various factors, including continued and additional market acceptance of the Famous Daves brand, the quality of our restaurant operations, our ability to grow 13 Table of Contents our brand, our ability to successfully expand into new and existing markets, our ability to successfully execute our franchise program, our ability to raise additional financing as needed, discretionary consumer spending, the overall success of the venues where Famous Daves restaurants are or will be located, economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income, general economic conditions and the continued popularity of the Famous Daves concept. An adverse change in any or all of these conditions would have a negative effect on our operations and the market value of our common stock. In fiscal 2017, the Company does not anticipate opening a new Company-owned restaurant. There is no guarantee that any of the Company-owned or franchise-operated restaurants will open when planned, or at all, due to many factors that may affect the development and construction of our restaurants, including landlord delays, weather interference, unforeseen engineering problems, environmental problems, construction or zoning problems, local government regulations, modifications in design to the size and scope of the project, and other unanticipated increases in costs, any of which could give rise to delays and cost overruns. There can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our growth plan for our Company-owned and franchise-operated restaurants. In addition, we also face all of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered in the development of an expanding business. Competition may reduce our revenue, operating income, and cash flows. Competition in the restaurant industry is intense. The restaurant industry is affected by changes in consumer preferences, as well as by national, regional and local economic conditions, including real estate, and demographic trends, traffic patterns, the cost and availability of qualified labor, and product availability. Discretionary spending priorities, traffic patterns, tourist travel, weather conditions, and the type, number and location of competing restaurants, among other factors, will also directly affect the performance of our restaurants. Changes in any of these factors in the markets where we currently operate our restaurants could adversely affect the results of our operations. Increased competition by existing or future competitors may reduce our sales. Our restaurants compete with moderately-priced restaurants primarily on the basis of quality of food and service, atmosphere, location and value. In addition to existing barbeque restaurants, we face competition from steakhouses and other restaurants featuring protein-rich foods. We also compete with other restaurants and retail establishments for quality sites. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. Regional and national restaurant companies continue to expand their operations into our current and anticipated market areas. We believe our ability to compete effectively depends on our ongoing ability to promote our brand and offer high quality food and hospitality in a distinctive and comfortable environment. If we are unable to respond to, or unable to respond in a timely manner, to the various competitive factors affecting the restaurant industry, our revenue and operating income could be adversely affected. Our failure to execute our franchise program may negatively impact our revenue, operating income and cash flows. Our growth and success depends in part upon increasing the number of our franchised restaurants, through execution of area development and franchise agreements with new and existing franchisees in new and existing markets. We are also pursuing a strategic re-franchising initiative to transition some of our Company-owned restaurants into franchised locations. Our ability to successfully franchise additional restaurants and re-franchise existing Company-owned restaurants will depend on various factors, including our ability to attract, contract with and retain quality franchisees, the availability of suitable sites, the negotiation of acceptable leases or purchase terms for new locations, the negotiation of acceptable terms for the re-franchising of existing Company-owned restaurants, permitting and regulatory compliance, the ability to meet construction schedules, the financial and other capabilities of our franchisees, our ability to manage this anticipated expansion, and general economic and business conditions. Many of the foregoing factors are beyond the control of the Company or our franchisees. Our growth and success also depends upon the ability of our franchisees to operate their restaurants successfully to our standards and promote the Famous Daves brand. Although we have established criteria to evaluate prospective franchisees, and our franchise agreements include certain operating standards, each franchisee operates his/her restaurant independently. Various laws limit our ability to influence the day-to-day operation of our franchise restaurants. We cannot assure you that our franchisees will be able to successfully operate Famous Daves restaurants 14 Table of Contents in a manner consistent with our concepts and standards, which could reduce their sales and correspondingly, our franchise royalties, and could adversely affect our operating income and our ability to leverage the Famous Daves brand. In addition, there can be no assurance that our franchisees will have access to financial resources necessary to open the restaurants required by their respective area development agreements, which would negatively impact our growth plans. We may not be successful in maintaining or expanding our international footprint. Our current franchise program includes four restaurants in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, one restaurant in Manitoba, Canada, and two restaurants in the United Arab Emirates. Because there are a very limited number of international restaurants, we may not be completely aware of the development efforts involved and barriers to entry into new foreign markets. As a result, we may incur more expenses than originally anticipated and there is a risk that we may not be successful in expanding internationally. If we are successful in maintaining or expanding our international footprint, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors affecting international operations including, among others, regulatory, social, political, or economic conditions in a specific country or region, trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements, government spending patterns, and changes in the laws and policies. Furthermore, by maintaining or expanding our international footprint, our brand value could be harmed by factors outside of our control, including, among other things, difficulties in achieving the consistency of product quality and service compared to our U.S. restaurants and an inability to obtain adequate and reliable supplies of ingredients and products. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive government regulation that could negatively impact our business. The restaurant industry is subject to extensive federal, state, and local government regulation by various government agencies, including state and local licensing, zoning, land use, construction and environmental regulations and various regulations relating to the preparation and sale of food and alcoholic beverages, sanitation, disposal of refuse and waste products, public health, safety and fire standards, adjustments to tip credits, increases to minimum wage requirements, workers compensation and citizenship requirements. Due to the fact that we offer and sell franchises, we are also subject to federal regulation and certain state laws which govern the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and termination or non-renewal of a franchise. We may also be subject in certain states to dram-shop statutes, which provide a person injured by an intoxicated person the right to recover damages from an establishment that wrongfully served alcoholic beverages to the intoxicated person. In addition, our operating results would be adversely affected in the event we fail to maintain our food and liquor licenses. Any change in the current status of such regulations, including an increase in team member benefits costs, any and all insurance rates, or other costs associated with team members, could substantially increase our compliance and labor costs. Because we pay many of our restaurant-level team members rates based on either the federal or the state minimum wage, increases in the minimum wage would lead to increased labor costs. In 2014, the general counsels office of the National Labor Relations Board issued complaints naming the McDonalds Corporation as a joint employer of workers at its franchisees for alleged violations of the Fair Labor Standards Act. There can be no assurance that other franchisors will not receive similar complaints in the future which may result in legal proceedings based on the actions of its franchisees. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor for our restaurants in a particular area or across the United States. Other labor shortages or increased team member turnover could also increase labor costs. Furthermore, restaurant operating costs are affected by increases in unemployment tax rates and similar costs over which we have no control. During 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 were signed into law in the United States. Our restaurants are governed by these laws. This legislation mandates menu labeling of certain nutritional aspects of restaurant menu items such as caloric, sugar, sodium, and fat content. There is a risk that consumers dining preferences may be impacted by such menu labeling. If we elect to alter our recipes in response to such a change in dining preferences, doing so could increase our costs and/or change the flavor profile of our menu offerings which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to the risks associated with the food services industry, including the risk that incidents of food-borne illnesses or food tampering could damage our reputation and reduce our restaurant sales. Our industry is susceptible to the risk of food-borne illnesses. As with any restaurant operation we cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third-party food suppliers and distributors increases the risk that food-borne illness incidents could be caused by third-party food suppliers and distributors outside of our control and/or multiple locations being affected rather than a single restaurant. New illnesses resistant to any precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. Reports in the media or on social media of one or more instances of food-borne illness in one of our Company-owned restaurants, one of our franchise-operated restaurants or in one of our competitors restaurants could negatively affect our restaurant sales, force the closure of some of our restaurants and conceivably have a national impact if highly publicized. This risk exists even if it were later determined that the illness had been wrongly attributed to the restaurant. Furthermore, other illnesses could adversely affect the supply of some of our food products and significantly increase our costs. A decrease in guest traffic as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity could materially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our ability to exploit our brand depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and if any third parties make unauthorized use of our intellectual property, our competitive position and business could suffer. We believe that our trademarks and other intellectual proprietary rights are important to our success and our competitive position. Accordingly, we have registered various trademarks and make use of various unregistered marks. However, the actions we have taken or may take in the future to establish and protect our trademarks and other intellectual proprietary rights may be inadequate to prevent others from imitating our products and concept or claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. Although we intend to defend against any improper use of our marks to the fullest extent allowable by law, litigation related to such defense, regardless of the merit or resolution, may be costly and time consuming and divert the efforts and attention of our management. Our financial performance is affected by our ability to contract with reliable suppliers at competitive prices. In order to maximize operating efficiencies, we have entered into arrangements with food manufacturers and distributors pursuant to which we obtain approximately 85% of the products used by the Company, including, but not limited to, pork, poultry, beef, and seafood. Although we may be able to obtain competitive products and prices from alternative suppliers, an interruption in the supply of products delivered by our food suppliers could adversely affect our operations in the short term. Due to the rising market price environment, our food costs may increase without the desire and/or ability to pass that price increase to our customers. Although we do contract for utilities in all available states, the costs of these energy-related items will fluctuate due to factors that may not be predictable, such as the economy, current political/international relations and weather conditions. Because we cannot control these types of factors, there is a risk that prices of energy/utility items will increase beyond our current projections and adversely affect our operations. We could be adversely impacted if our information technology and computer systems do not perform properly or if we fail to protect our customers credit card information or our employees personal data. We rely heavily on information technology to conduct our business, and any material failure or interruption of service could adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, we accept credit and debit card payments in our restaurants. Recently, retailers have experienced actual or potential security breaches in which credit and debit card information may have been compromised, including several highly-publicized incidents. Although we take it very seriously and expend resources to ensure that our information technology operates securely and effectively, any security breaches could result in disruptions to operations or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. If our guests consumer data or our team members personal data are compromised, our operations could be adversely affected, our reputation could be harmed, and we could be subjected to litigation or the imposition of penalties and other remedial costs. In addition, as a franchisor, we are subject to additional reputation risk associated with data breaches that could occur at one of our franchise locations that could potentially harm the Famous Daves brand reputation. 16 Table of Contents Failure to achieve our projected cost savings from our efficiency initiatives could adversely affect our results of operations and eliminate potential funding for growth opportunities. In recent years as well as in the future, we have identified strategies and taken steps to reduce operating costs and free up resources to reinvest in our business. These strategies include supply chain efficiencies, reducing food waste, implementing labor scheduling tools and various information systems projects. We continue to evaluate and implement further cost-saving initiatives. However, the ability to reduce our operating costs through these initiatives is subject to risks and uncertainties, such as our ability to obtain improved supply pricing and the reliability of any new suppliers or technology, and we cannot assure that these activities, or any other activities that we may undertake in the future, will achieve the desired cost savings and efficiencies. Failure to achieve such desired savings could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and curtail investment in growth opportunities. Litigation could have a material adverse impact on our business and our financial performance. We are subject to lawsuits, administrative proceedings and claims that arise in the regular course of business. These matters typically involve claims by consumers, employees and others regarding issues such as food borne illness, food safety, premises liability, dram shop statute liability, compliance with wage and hour requirements, work-related injuries, promotional advertising, discrimination, harassment, disability and other operational issues common to the foodservice industry, as well as contract disputes and intellectual property infringement matters. Significant legal fees and costs in complex class action litigation or an adverse judgment or settlement that is not insured or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Significant adverse weather conditions and other disasters or unforeseen events could negatively impact our results of operations. Adverse weather conditions and natural disasters and other unforeseen events, such as winter storms, severe temperatures, thunderstorms, floods, hurricanes and earthquakes, terror attacks, war and widespread/pandemic illness, and the effects of such events on economic conditions and consumer spending patterns, could negatively impact our results of operations. Temporary and prolonged restaurant closures may occur and consumer traffic may decline due to the actual or perceived effects from these events. For example, severe winter weather conditions have impacted our traffic and results of operations in the past. We evaluate restaurant sites and long-lived assets for impairment and expenses recognized as a result of any impairment would negatively affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. During fiscal 2016, we recognized asset impairment, lease termination and other closing costs of $4.8 million, which included approximately $4.4 million in asset impairment charges associated with 11 restaurants which were slow to respond to several initiatives to turnaround operating performance. As a result, we determined that the estimated fair value of these assets was less than the net book value and recognized an impairment charge to reduce the related assets to the estimated fair value. As we continue to evaluate the restaurant portfolio we anticipate addressing the ongoing operation of the 11 locations impaired over the next 3 years by way of lease restructuring, lease assignment, subleasing, or subsequent closure at the end of their natural lease term. Additionally, a lease termination reserve costs associated with a letter of credit provided to a landlord of a previously closed restaurant and costs associated with a software implementation project that was discontinued. We evaluate restaurant sites and long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of restaurant sites to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the restaurant site to the undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated on a restaurant-by-restaurant basis. If a restaurant is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the restaurant site exceeds its fair value. Fair value is estimated based on the best information available including estimated future cash flows, expected growth rates in comparable restaurant sales, remaining lease terms, discount rate and other factors. If these estimates change in the future, we may be required to take additional impairment charges for the related assets, which would negatively affect our financial condition and consolidated results of operations. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate future cash flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. 17 Table of Contents Pursuant to its authority to designate and issue shares of our stock as it deems appropriate, our board of directors may assign rights and privileges to currently undesignated shares which could adversely affect the rights of existing shareholders. Our authorized capital consists of 100,000,000 shares of capital stock. Our Board of Directors, without any action by the shareholders, may designate and issue shares in such classes or series (including classes or series of preferred stock) as it deems appropriate and establish the rights, preferences and privileges of such shares, including dividends, liquidation and voting rights. As of March 7, 2017, we had 6,957,628 shares of common stock outstanding. The rights of holders of preferred stock and other classes of common stock that may be issued could be superior to the rights granted to the current holders of our common stock. Our Boards ability to designate and issue such undesignated shares could impede or deter an unsolicited tender offer or takeover proposal. Further, the issuance of additional shares having preferential rights could adversely affect the voting power and other rights of holders of common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES The development cost of our restaurants varies depending primarily on the size and style of the restaurant, whether the property is purchased or leased, and whether it is a conversion of an existing building or a newly constructed restaurant. We have engaged a design firm to redesign and reimage the traditional full-service prototype and develop plans for three additional service style models including counter-service, line-service and hybrid flex-service models. The three-additional service-style models will allow us to access new markets or strategically locate restaurants in existing markets where a full-service restaurant is not sustainable. The surrounding trade area will determine which service style is appropriate. These new prototypes can be built as free standing buildings, as end caps of a building or as in-line locations. Additionally, we offer lower cost conversion packages that provide our franchisees with the flexibility to build in cost effective formats, such as opportunities to convert existing restaurants into a Famous Daves restaurant. In fiscal 2016, we did not open any new Company-owned locations and refranchised seven Company-owned restaurants in the Chicago-area (located in Addison, Algonquin, Bolingbrook, Evergreen Park, North Riverside, Orland Park, and Oswego, Illinois). In fiscal 2015, we did not open any new Company-owned locations, closed one location and refranchised five additional company-owned restaurants. In fiscal 2014, we did not open any new Company owned locations and closed four locations. Due to the flexibility and scalability of our concept, there are a variety of development opportunities available now and in the future. In fiscal 2017, we do not expect to open a Company-owned restaurant. Our leased restaurant facilities are occupied under agreements with remaining terms ranging from 4 months to 31 years, including renewal options. Such leases generally provide for fixed rental payments plus operating expenses associated with the properties. Several leases also require the payment of percentage rent based on net sales. Our Minnesota executive offices are currently located in approximately 28,600 square feet in Minnetonka, Minnesota. Our executive office lease expires November 2018, with two five-year renewal options. The minimum annual rent commitment remaining over the lease term, including renewal options, is approximately $3.8 million. During fiscal 2015, we sublet approximately 10,340 square feet to two subtenants. During 2015, our 8,400-square foot office in Lombard, IL was closed and sublet to another tenant. This office lease expires October 2022. The minimum annual rent commitment remaining over the lease term is approximately $715,000. 18 Table of Contents We believe that our properties will be suitable for our needs and adequate for operations for the foreseeable future. The following table sets forth certain information about our existing Company-owned restaurant locations, as of January 1, 2017, sorted by opening date: Location Square Footage Interior Seats Owned or Leased Date Opened/Acquired 1 Roseville, MN (3) 4,800 105 Leased June 1996 2 Calhoun Square (Minneapolis, MN) 10,500 380 Leased September 1996 3 Maple Grove, MN 6,100 146 Leased (1) April 1997 4 Highland Park (St. Paul, MN) (3) 5,200 125 Leased June 1997 5 Stillwater, MN 5,200 130 Leased (1) July 1997 6 Apple Valley, MN (3) 3,800 90 Leased (1) July 1997 7 Forest Lake, MN (3) 4,500 100 Leased October 1997 8 Minnetonka, MN 5,500 140 Owned (2) December 1997 9 Plymouth, MN (3) 2,100 49 Owned (2) December 1997 10 West Des Moines, IA 5,700 150 Leased April 1998 11 Des Moines, IA 5,800 150 Leased April 1998 12 Bloomington, MN 5,400 140 Leased October 1998 13 Woodbury, MN 5,900 180 Owned (2) October 1998 14 Columbia, MD 7,200 270 Leased January 2000 15 Annapolis, MD 6,800 219 Leased January 2000 16 Frederick, MD 5,600 180 Leased January 2000 17 Woodbridge, VA 6,000 219 Leased January 2000 18 Sterling, VA 5,800 200 Leased December 2000 19 Oakton, VA 4,400 184 Leased May 2001 20 Laurel, MD 5,200 165 Leased August 2001 21 Chantilly, VA 6,400 205 Leased January 2006 22 Waldorf, MD 6,600 200 Leased June 2006 23 Coon Rapids, MN 6,300 160 Owned (2) December 2006 24 Fredericksburg, VA 6,500 219 Leased September 2007 25 Owings Mills, MD 6,700 219 Leased November 2007 26 Alexandria, VA 6,600 219 Leased February 2008 27 Brick, NJ 5,200 181 Leased March 2010 28 Mays Landing, NJ 6,400 237 Leased March 2010 29 Westbury, NY 6,400 276 Leased March 2010 30 New Brunswick, NJ 7,200 255 Leased March 2010 31 Mountainside, NJ 8,800 253 Leased March 2010 32 Metuchen, NJ 6,200 176 Leased March 2010 33 Bel Air, MD 6,360 199 Leased August 2010 34 Falls Church, VA 5,430 169 Leased August 2011 35 Gainesville, VA 6,000 215 Leased June 2012 36 Germantown, MD 5,000 160 Leased September 2013 37 Timonium, MD 5,600 187 Leased November 2013 All seat count and square footage amounts are approximate. (1) Restaurant is collateral in a financing lease. (2) Restaurant land and building are owned by the Company. (3) Counter service restaurant ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time-to-time, we are involved in various legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of our management, the ultimate dispositions of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Currently, there are no significant legal matters pending except as described below. Famous Daves of America, Inc. (Famous Daves) filed a complaint on July 14, 2015, against a group of former franchisees in California seeking injunctive relief and damages for: (1) Federal Trademark Infringement; (2) Federal Trademark Dilution; (3) Federal Unfair Competition; (4) Federal Trade Dress Dilution; (5) Trademark Infringement under California Business and Professions Code 14200; (6) Trademark Dilution under California Business and Professions Code 14200; (7) Common Law Trademark Infringement; (8) Unfair Competition under California Business and Professions Code 17200; (9) False Advertising; (10) Breach of Contract; (11) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and (12) Intentional Interference with Contract. The claims stem from the former franchisees breaches of their franchise agreements, including the failure to pay franchise fees and their continued operation of five restaurants utilizing Famous Daves intellectual property without authorization. After two defendants in the case, Kurt Schneiter and M Mart 1, filed a demurrer to the Complaint, Famous Daves filed an Amended Complaint on October 9, 2015, reasserting the same claims. The case is captioned Famous Daves of 19 Table of Contents America, Inc., v. SR El Centro FD, Inc., et al., Case No. BC589329, and is currently pending before the Honorable Elihu M. Berle in the Superior Court of Los Angeles. By court order, dated June 6, 2016, Famous Daves successfully obtained a preliminary injunction, enjoining the former franchisee defendants from using Famous Daves intellectual property, including its trademarks and restaurant system. The preliminary injunction is currently the subject of a pending interlocutory appeal which Famous Daves intends to oppose vigorously. On July 28, 2015, these franchisees (the Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against Famous Daves in the South Judicial District of the Superior Court of the County of Los Angeles. On March 10, 2016, Plaintiffs re-filed this Complaint as a First Amended Cross-Complaint [Famous Daves of America, Inc. v. SR El Centro, Inc., et al., Superior Court of the State of California, County of Los Angeles, Central Division, Case No. BC589329] alleging that Famous Daves breached the Franchise Agreements for these restaurants by failing to provide certain marketing support and access to customer contact data, vendors, internet reporting and support to Plaintiffs, and failing to provide operations and preferred practices training to Plaintiffs designated representative. Plaintiffs further allege that such conduct by Famous Daves is a breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Plaintiffs also allege that Famous Daves aided and abetted John and Allan Gantes in breach of their fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs are seeking compensatory damages in amount not less than $20 million, punitive damages, costs and attorneys fees. Famous Daves denies the allegations and intends to vigorously defend against them. The foregoing litigation is pending and in the early stages of discovery. No trial date has been set. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not Applicable. PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K is hereby incorporated by reference to Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. Market Information Our common stock has traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market since July 24, 1997 under the symbol DAVE. Currently, our common stock trades on the NASDAQ Global Market. The following table summarizes the high and low sale prices per share of our common stock for the periods indicated, as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market. 2016 2015 Period High Low High Low 1 st Quarter $ 7.05 $ 5.01 $ 34.72 $ 24.50 2 nd Quarter $ 6.14 $ 4.75 $ 30.94 $ 18.22 3 rd Quarter $ 6.73 $ 4.99 $ 20.97 $ 12.36 4 th Quarter $ 5.53 $ 4.42 $ 12.96 $ 6.70 Holders As of March 7, 2017, we had approximately 332 shareholders of record and approximately 3,254 beneficial shareholders. Dividends Our Board of Directors has not declared any dividends on our common stock since our inception, and does not intend to pay out any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We presently intend to retain all 20 Table of Contents earnings, if any, to provide for growth, reduce our debt levels, and repurchase our common stock. The payment of cash dividends in the future, if any, will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend upon such factors as earnings levels, capital requirements, loan agreement restrictions, our financial condition and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. Stock Performance Graph Below is a line-graph presentation that compares the cumulative, five-year return to the Companys shareholders (based on appreciation of the market price of the Companys common stock) on an indexed basis with (i) a broad equity market index and (ii) an appropriate published industry or line-of-business index, or Peer Group Index constructed by the Company. The following presentation compares the Companys common stock price for the period from January 2, 2011 through January 1, 2017, to the S&P 500 Stock Index and to the S&P Small Cap Restaurant Index. The Company has elected to use the S&P Small Cap Restaurant Index in compiling its stock performance graph because it believes the S&P Small Cap Restaurant Index represents a comparison to competitors with similar market capitalization to the Company. The presentation assumes that the value of an investment in each of the Companys common stock, the S&P 500 Index and S&P Small Cap Restaurants was $100 on January 1, 2012, and that any dividends paid were reinvested in the same security. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Famous Daves of America, Inc., the S&P 500 Index, and S&P Small Cap Restaurants * $100 invested on 1/1/12 in stock or 12/31/11 in index, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ending January 1, 2017 with previous specific fiscal year ends at January 1, 2012, December 30, 2012, December 29, 2013, December 28, 2014 and January 3, 2016. Copyright 2017 Standard & Poors, a division of S&P Global. All rights reserved. 21 Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer None ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected financial data presented below should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected financial data as of and for the fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 (fiscal 2016), January 3, 2016 (fiscal 2015), December 28, 2014 (fiscal 2014), December 29, 2013 (fiscal 2013), and, December 30, 2012 (fiscal 2012) have been derived from our consolidated financial statements as audited by Grant Thornton LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm. 22 Table of Contents FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FISCAL YEAR ($s in 000s, except per share data and average weekly sales) 2016 2015 (1) 2014 2013 2012 STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS DATA Revenue $ 99,179 $ 114,226 $ 131,862 $ 137,282 $ 138,871 Asset impairment and estimated lease termination and other closing costs (2) ($ 4,788 ) ($ 1,520 ) ($ 4,517 ) ($ 1,181 ) ($ 370 ) (Loss) income from operations ($ 4,090 ) $ 2,144 $ 3,856 $ 6,584 $ 5,833 Income tax benefit (expense) $ 2,000 ($ 48 ) ($ 732 ) ($ 1,697 ) ($ 751 ) Net (loss) income from continuing operations ($ 2,942 ) $ 1,079 $ 2,255 $ 3,949 $ 4,062 Net income (loss) from discontinued operations $ 511 ($ 5,463 ) $ 642 $ 818 $ 298 Net (loss) income ($ 2,431 ) ($ 4,384 ) $ 2,897 $ 4,767 $ 4,360 Basic continuing net (loss) income per common share ($ 0.42 ) $ 0.15 $ 0.31 $ 0.54 $ 0.54 Basic discontinued net income (loss) per common share $ 0.07 ($ 0.78 ) $ 0.09 $ 0.11 $ 0.04 Basic net (loss) income per common share ($ 0.35 ) ($ 0.63 ) $ 0.40 $ 0.65 $ 0.58 Diluted continuing net (loss) income per common share ($ 0.42 ) $ 0.15 $ 0.31 $ 0.52 $ 0.53 Diluted discontinued net income (loss) per common share $ 0.07 ($ 0.78 ) $ 0.09 $ 0.11 $ 0.04 Diluted net (loss) income per common share ($ 0.35 ) ($ 0.63 ) $ 0.40 $ 0.62 $ 0.57 BALANCE SHEET DATA (at year end) Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,450 $ 5,300 $ 2,133 $ 1,293 $ 2,074 Total assets $ 50,945 $ 57,825 $ 66,677 $ 75,337 $ 76,253 Long-term debt less current maturities $ 11,129 $ 12,957 $ 11,493 $ 18,924 $ 22,105 Total shareholders equity $ 19,968 $ 22,061 $ 31,802 $ 32,791 $ 33,767 OTHER DATA Restaurant Sales: Company-owned $ 81,511 $ 95,475 $ 113,522 $ 118,780 $ 119,613 Number of restaurants open at year end: Company-owned restaurants 37 44 50 54 53 Franchise-operated restaurants 139 135 139 140 135 Total restaurants 176 179 189 194 188 Company-owned comparable sales Sales decrease (3) (5.0 )% (9.3 )% (5.7 )% (0.7 )% (2.1 )% Average weekly sales: (4) Company-owned restaurants $ 42,365 $ 44,366 $ 47,202 $ 49,514 $ 49,172 (1) Fiscal 2015 was 53 weeks. All other presented fiscal years consisted of 52 weeks. (2) Fiscal 2016 reflects impairment charges for eleven restaurants slow to respond to several initiatives to turnaround operating performance, a lease termination reserve associated with a letter of credit provided to a landlord for a previously closed restaurant, and costs associated with a software implementation project that was discontinued. Fiscal 2015 reflects impairment charges for four refranchised restaurants and one closed restaurant, and lease costs for the closed Chicago field office and a cancelled restaurant relocation. Fiscal 2014 reflects non-cash impairment charges for six Company-owned restaurants, two lease restructurings charges at additional Company-owned restaurants and the dcor warehouse, the write-off of dcor due to a change in operating strategy and closing costs associated with Company owned restaurants. Fiscal 2013 reflects non-cash impairment charges for one Company-owned restaurant, a lease restructuring at another Company-owned restaurant, and residual closing costs for a restaurant relocated in 2013. Fiscal 2012 primarily reflects closing costs for three Company-owned restaurants as well as a lease reserve for one of the closed restaurants. (3) Our comparable store sales includes Company-owned restaurants that are open year round and have been open more than 24 months. (4) The Supplemental Sales Information excludes the impact of the seven Chicago restaurants that were refranchised in the first quarter of 2016, with the exception that the seven restaurants are included in the total number of Company-owned restaurants. 23 Table of Contents ITEM 7. M ANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Certain statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K include forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All such forward-looking statements are based on information currently available to us as of the date of this Annual Report, and we assume no obligation to update any forward-looking statements except as otherwise required by applicable law. Forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such factors may include, among others, those factors listed in Item 1A of and elsewhere in this Annual Report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with Selected Financial Data above (Item 6 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) and our financial statements and related footnotes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report. OVERVIEW Famous Daves of America, Inc. was incorporated as a Minnesota corporation in March 1994 and opened its first restaurant in Minneapolis in June 1995. As of January 1, 2017, there were 176 Famous Daves restaurants operating in 32 states, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Canada, and the United Arab Emirates, including 37 Company-owned restaurants and 139 franchise-operated restaurants. An additional 62 franchise restaurants were committed to be developed through signed area development agreements as of January 1, 2017. Fiscal Year Our fiscal year ends on the Sunday nearest December 31st of each year. Our fiscal year is generally 52 weeks; however, it periodically consists of 53 weeks. The fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 (fiscal 2016), consisted of 52 weeks while January 3, 2016 (fiscal 2015) consisted of 53 weeks, and December 28, 2014 (fiscal 2014) consisted of 52 weeks. Fiscal 2017, which ends on January 1, 2018, will consist of 52 weeks. Basis of Presentation The financial results presented and discussed herein reflect our results and the results of our wholly-owned and majority-owned consolidated subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior year amounts to conform to the current years presentation. Application of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations is based upon its financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities and expenses, and related disclosures. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments. By their nature, these estimates and judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience, observance of trends in the industry, information provided by customers and other outside sources and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect its more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements. Our Companys significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included herein. We have discussed the development and selection of the following critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to such policies in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Recognition of Franchise-Related Revenue Initial franchise fee revenue is recognized when we have performed substantially all of our obligations as franchisor. Franchise royalties are recognized when earned. 24 Table of Contents Our franchise-related revenue is comprised of three separate and distinct earnings processes: area development fees, initial franchise fees and continuing royalty payments. Currently, our area development fee for domestic growth consists of a one-time, non-refundable payment of approximately $10,000 per restaurant in consideration for the services we perform in preparation of executing each area development agreement. For our foreign area development agreements the one time, non-refundable payment is negotiated on a per development basis and is determined based on the costs incurred to sell that development agreement. Substantially all of these services, which include, but are not limited to, a review of the potential franchisees current operations, conducting market and trade area analysis, a meeting with Famous Daves Executive Team, and performing a potential franchise background investigation, are completed prior to our execution of the area development agreement and receipt of the corresponding area development fee. As a result, we recognize this fee in full upon receipt. Currently, our initial, non-refundable, franchise fee for domestic growth is $45,000 per restaurant, of which approximately $5,000 is recognized immediately when a franchise agreement is signed, reflecting expenses incurred related to the sale. The remaining non-refundable fee is included in deferred franchise fees and is recognized as revenue when we have performed substantially all of our obligations, which generally occurs upon the franchise entering into a lease agreement for the restaurant(s). Finally, franchisees are also required to pay us a monthly royalty equal to a percentage of their net sales, which has historically varied from 4% to 5%. In general, new franchises pay us a monthly royalty of 5% of their net sales. Asset Impairment and Estimated Lease Termination and Other Closing Costs We evaluate restaurant sites and long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of restaurant sites to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of the restaurant site to the undiscounted future net cash flows expected to be generated on a restaurant-by-restaurant basis. If a restaurant is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the restaurant site exceeds its fair value. Fair value is estimated based on the best information available including estimated future cash flows, expected growth rates in comparable restaurant sales, remaining lease terms, discount rate and other factors. If these assumptions change in the future, we may be required to take additional impairment charges for the related assets. Considerable management judgment is necessary to estimate future cash flows. Accordingly, actual results could vary significantly from such estimates. Restaurant sites that are operating, but have been previously impaired, are reported at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less estimated costs to sell. Lease Accounting We recognize lease expense for our operating leases over the entire lease term including lease renewal options where the renewal is reasonably assured and the build-out period takes place prior to the restaurant opening or lease commencement date. We account for construction allowances by recording a receivable when its collectability is considered probable, depreciating the leasehold improvements over the lesser of their useful lives or the full term of the lease, including renewal options and build-out periods, amortizing the construction allowance as a credit to rent expense over the full term of the lease, including renewal options and build-out periods, and relieving the receivable once the cash is obtained from the landlord for the construction allowance. We record rent expense during the build-out period and classify this expense in pre-opening expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. Liquor licenses The Company owns transferable liquor licenses in jurisdictions with a limited number of authorized liquor licenses. These licenses were capitalized as indefinite-lived intangible assets and are included in intangible assets, net in our consolidated balance sheets (see note 3 to our consolidated financial statements) at January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016. We annually review the liquor licenses for impairment and in fiscal 2016 we impaired one license by $50,000 as we believe its value has experienced a long-term decline due to changes in the economic and demographic circumstances in the related area. In 2015 no impairment charges were required to be recorded. Additionally, the costs of obtaining non-transferable liquor licenses that are directly issued by local government agencies for nominal fees are expensed as incurred. Annual liquor license renewal fees are expensed over the renewal term. Accounts receivable, net We provide an allowance for uncollectible accounts on accounts receivable based on historical losses and existing economic conditions, when relevant. We provide for a general bad debt reserve for franchise receivables due to increases in days sales outstanding and deterioration in general economic market conditions. This general reserve is based on the aging of receivables meeting specified criteria and is adjusted each quarter based on past due receivable balances. Additionally, we have periodically established a specific reserve on certain receivables as necessary. Any changes to the reserve are recorded in general and administrative expenses. The 25 Table of Contents allowance for uncollectible accounts was approximately $270,000 and $246,000, at January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016, respectively. In fiscal 2015, the increase in the allowance for doubtful accounts was primarily due to the aging of receivables associated with certain franchisee groups. Accounts receivable balances written off have not exceeded allowances provided. We believe all accounts receivable in excess of the allowance are fully collectible. If accounts receivable in excess of provided allowances are determined uncollectible, they are charged to expense in the period that determination is made. Outstanding past due accounts receivable are subject to a monthly interest charge on unpaid balances which is recorded as interest income in our consolidated statements of operations. In assessing recoverability of these receivables, we make judgments regarding the financial condition of the franchisees based primarily on past and current payment trends, as well as other variables, including annual financial information, which the franchisees are required to submit to us. Stock-based compensation We recognize compensation expense for share-based awards granted to team members based on their fair values at the time of grant over the requisite service period. Additionally, our board members receive share-based awards for their board service. Our pre-tax compensation expense for stock options and other incentive awards is included in general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of operations (see Note 9 to our financial statements). Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of federal and state income tax liabilities. These estimates include, among other items, effective rates for state and local income taxes, allowable tax credits for items such as taxes paid on reported tip income, estimates related to depreciation and amortization expense allowable for tax purposes, and the tax deductibility of certain other items. Our estimates are based on the information available to us at the time that we prepare the income tax provision. We generally file our annual income tax returns several months after our fiscal year-end. Income tax returns are subject to audit by federal, state, and local governments, generally years after the tax returns are filed. These returns could be subject to material adjustments or differing interpretations of the tax laws. Accounting for uncertain tax positions requires significant judgment including estimating the amount, timing, and likelihood of ultimate settlement. Although the Company believes that its estimates are reasonable, actual results could differ from these estimates. Additionally, uncertain positions may be re-measured as warranted by changes in facts or law. Results of Operations Revenue Our revenue consists of four components: Company-owned restaurant sales, franchise-related revenue from royalties and franchise fees, licensing revenue from the retail sale of our sauces and rubs, and other revenue from the opening assistance we provide to franchise partners. We record restaurant sales at the time food and beverages are served. Our revenue recognition policies for franchising are discussed under Recognition of Franchise-Related Revenue above. Our franchise-related revenue consists of area development fees, initial franchise fees and continuing royalty payments. We record sales of merchandise items at the time items are delivered to the customer. We have a licensing agreement for our retail products, with renewal options of five years, subject to the licensees attainment of identified minimum product sales levels. Based on achievement of the required minimum product sales, the agreement will be in force until April 2020 at which time these levels will be re-evaluated. Periodically, we provide additional services, beyond the general franchise agreement, to our franchise operations, such as new restaurant training and dcor installation services. The cost of these services is billed to the respective franchisee, is recorded as other income when the service is provided, and is generally payable on net 30-day terms. Since 2010, the franchise agreements require a 50% deposit be paid in advance for these services. Costs and Expenses Restaurant costs and expenses include food and beverage costs, labor and benefits costs, operating expenses which include occupancy costs, repair and maintenance costs, supplies, advertising and promotion, and restaurant depreciation and amortization. Certain of these costs and expenses are variable and will increase or decrease with sales volume. The primary fixed costs are corporate and restaurant management salaries and occupancy costs. Our experience is that when a new restaurant opens, it incurs higher than normal levels of labor and food costs until operations stabilize, usually during the first three to four months of operation. As restaurant management and team members gain experience following a restaurants opening, labor scheduling, food cost management and operating expense control typically improve to levels similar to those at our more established restaurants. 26 Table of Contents General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses include all corporate and administrative functions that provide an infrastructure to support existing operations and support future growth. Salaries, including restaurant-level supervision, bonuses, team member benefits, legal fees, accounting fees, consulting fees, travel, rent, and general insurance are major items in this category. Additionally, we record expenses for Managers in Training (MITs) in this category for approximately six weeks prior to a restaurant opening. We also provide franchise services, the revenue from which are included in other revenue and the expenses of which are included in general and administrative expenses. The following table presents items in our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of total revenue or net restaurant sales, as indicated, for the following fiscal years: (4) 2016 2015 2014 Food and beverage costs (1) 31.0 % 30.5 % 29.5 % Labor and benefits costs (1) 34.6 % 34.1 % 32.5 % Operating expenses (1)(3) 30.4 % 29.1 % 27.8 % Restaurant level operating margin (1) 4.0 % 6.3 % 10.2 % Depreciation and amortization expenses (2) 4.0 % 4.1 % 3.8 % General and administrative (2) 16.9 % 16.7 % 12.1 % (Loss) income from continuing operations (2) (4.1 )% 1.9 % 2.9 % (1) As a percentage of restaurant sales, net (2) As a percentage of total revenue (3) Restaurant level cash operating margin is equal to restaurant sales, net, less food and beverage costs, labor and benefit costs, and operating expenses. (4) Data regarding our restaurant operations as presented in this table includes sales, costs and expenses associated with our Rib Team, which netted a loss of $7,000 in fiscal year 2014. In fiscal years 2016 and 2015 we did not have any Rib Team operations. Our Rib Team traveled around the country introducing people to our brand of barbeque and building brand awareness. Fiscal Year 2016 Compared to Fiscal Year 2015 Due to the strategic operational changes we continued throughout 2016 and 2015, we are continuing to evaluate and assess various aspects of our business that may impact our budgets and expected financial performance for fiscal 2017. As a result, we believe that it is premature to provide any guidance for fiscal 2017 in this report and have elected not to do so. Total Revenue Total revenue of approximately $99.2 million for fiscal 2016 decreased approximately $15.0 million, or 13.2%, from total revenue of $114.2 in fiscal 2015, reflecting the annualized impact of refranchising five Company-owned restaurants and closure of one Company-owned restaurants during 2015. Other factors included a Company-owned restaurant comparable sales decline of 5.0% in 2016, a reduction in royalty revenues due to 4.7% franchise-operated comparable sales decline, and the loss of Company sales and royalties from the 53 rd operating week which occurred in fiscal 2015. Fiscal 2016 consisted of 52 weeks while 2015 consisted of 53 weeks. Restaurant Sales, net Restaurant sales, net for fiscal 2016 were approximately $81.5 million, compared to approximately $95.5 million for fiscal 2015 reflecting a 14.6% decrease. Total restaurant sales, net reflected the annualized impact of refranchising five Company-owned restaurants and closure of one Company-owned restaurant during 2015. During fiscal 2016 there was a 5.0% comparable sales decrease which, on a weighted basis, comprised a 4.3% comparable sales decrease for dine-in sales, a 0.7% comparable sales decrease for To Go and a 0.1% comparable sales decrease for catering. 27 Table of Contents Franchise-Related Revenue Franchise-related revenue consists of royalty revenue and franchise fees, which includes initial franchise fees and area development fees. Franchise-related revenue was approximately $16.7 million for fiscal 2016 and $17.8 million for fiscal 2015. The franchise-related revenue reflected four franchise-operated openings and seven Company-owned restaurants that were refranchised during fiscal 2016 offset by the closure of seven franchise-operated restaurants in fiscal 2016 and the impact of the loss of the 53 rd operating week which occurred in 2015. Additionally, franchise-operated restaurants experienced a 4.7% comparable sales decline. Fiscal 2016 included 7,215 franchise operating weeks, compared to 7,107 franchise operating weeks in fiscal 2015. There were 139 franchise-operated restaurants open at January 1, 2017, compared to 135 at January 3, 2016. Licensing and Other Revenue Licensing revenue includes royalties from a retail line of business, including sauces, rubs, marinades and seasonings. Other revenue includes opening assistance and training we provide to our franchise partners. Licensing revenue was approximately $981,000 for fiscal 2016 as compared to $940,000 for fiscal 2015. Other revenue for fiscal 2016 was approximately $22,000 compared to approximately $14,000 for fiscal 2015. The increase was primarily due to the increase in the number of franchise openings from three in 2015 to four in 2016. Same Store Net Sales (or Comparable Net Sales) It is our policy to include in our same store net sales base, restaurants that are open year-round and have been open at least 24 months. Same store net sales for Company-owned restaurants open at least 24 months ended January 1, 2017 decreased 5.0%, compared to fiscal 2015s decrease of 9.3%. For fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, there were 37 and 35 restaurants, respectively, included in the Company-owned 24 month comparable sales base. Same store net sales on a 24 month basis for franchise-operated restaurants for fiscal 2015 decreased 4.7%, compared to fiscal 2015s comparable same store net sales which were down 2.5%. For fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015, there were 116 and 115 restaurants, respectively, included in the franchise-operated 24 month comparable sales base. Same store net sales for franchise-operated restaurants are not our revenues and are not included in our consolidated financial statements. Our management believes that disclosure of comparable restaurant net sales for franchise-operated restaurants provides useful information to investors because historical performance and trends of Famous Daves franchisees relate directly to trends in franchise royalty revenues that the Company receives from such franchisees and have an impact on the perceived success and value of the Famous Daves brand. It also provides a comparison against which management and investors can analyze the extent to which Company-owned restaurants are realizing their revenue potential. 28 Table of Contents Average Weekly Net Sales and Operating Weeks The following table shows Company-owned and franchise-operated average weekly net sales for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015: Fiscal Years Ended January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 Average Weekly Net Sales (AWS): Company-Owned $ 42,365 $ 42,661 Full-Service $ 43,348 $ 43,330 Counter-Service $ 36,073 $ 37,896 Franchise-Operated (1) $ 48,194 $ 50,202 (1) AWS for franchise-operated restaurants are not revenues of the Company and are not included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Companys management believes that disclosure of comparable restaurant net sales for franchise-operated restaurants provides useful information to investors because historical performance and trends of Famous Daves franchisees relate directly to trends in franchise royalty revenues that the Company receives from such franchisees and have an impact on the perceived success and value of the Famous Daves brand. It also provides a comparison against which management and investors can analyze the extent to which Company-owned restaurants are realizing their revenue potential. Food and Beverage Costs Food and beverage costs for fiscal 2016 were approximately $25.3 million, or 31.0%, of net restaurant sales compared to approximately $29.1 million, or 30.5%, of net restaurant sales for fiscal 2015. This increase as a percent of sales was the result of investments in portion size to improve the Guest experience and a shift in product mix given additional affordable menu options presented to our Guest. These increases were partially offset by food contract deflation and a focus on reducing food waste. Labor and Benefits Costs Labor and benefits costs for fiscal 2016 were approximately $28.2 million, or 34.6%, of net restaurant sales, compared to approximately $32.6 million, or 34.1%, of net restaurant sales for fiscal 2015. This increase as a percent of sales was primarily due to sales deleverage on fixed and management labor costs and increased direct labor costs partially offset by a decline in management labor costs. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for fiscal 2016 were approximately $24.8 million, or 30.4%, of net restaurant sales, compared to approximately $27.8 million, or 29.1%, of net restaurant sales for fiscal 2015. This increase as a percent of sales was primarily related to sales deleverage on fixed operating and occupancy costs as well as a year over year increase in supplies and repairs and maintenance costs, and other operating costs partially offset by a decline in utility costs. In fiscal 2016, advertising, as a percentage of sales, was approximately 2.5%, compared to fiscal 2015s percentage at 2.6%. For 2016 and 2015, the Marketing Fund contribution was 1.0%. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense for fiscal 2016 and 2015 was approximately $3.7 million and $4.5 million, respectively, and was 3.7% and 3.9%, respectively, of total revenue. The decline in total expense reflects the reduction in total property, equipment and leasehold improvements due to the refranchising and closing of six restaurants during 2015. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for fiscal 2016 were approximately $16.8 million, or 16.9%, of total revenue compared to approximately $19.0 million, or 16.7% of total revenue for fiscal 2015. Recurring core general and administrative expenses have decreased year over year, reflecting our continued, successful initiative to reduce use, redesign services, and restructure capabilities as we optimize our business model. This initiative serves to clarify what support functions are expected to deliver, focuses on eliminating nonessential activities, and scrutinizing the processes that deliver support services. 29 Table of Contents Asset Impairment and Estimated Lease Termination and Other Closing Costs Following is a summary of events for fiscal 2016 and fiscal 2015: Restaurant Optimization During fiscal 2016, the Company recorded approximately $4.4 million in asset impairment charges associated with 11 restaurants which were slow to respond to several initiatives to turnaround operating performance. As a result, the Company determined that the estimated fair value of the assets was less than the net book value and recognized an impairment charge to reduce the related assets to their estimated fair value. As we continue to evaluate our restaurant portfolio we anticipate addressing the ongoing operation of the 11 locations impaired over the next 3 years by way of lease restructuring, lease assignment, subleasing or subsequent closure at the end of their natural lease term. Richmond, VA Area Restaurant Closures On December 29, 2014, the Company announced the closure of its three underperforming Company-owned restaurants located in and around Richmond, Virginia. The associated impairment charges primarily related to the write-off of the book value of the related property, plant and equipment, net of estimated proceeds from the sale of these assets (primarily derived from the sale of real property). Loss before taxes associated with these operations for the year ended December 28, 2014 totaled approximately $187,000. On December 28, 2014, the remaining book values, were valued at the estimated proceeds from the sale and were recorded as assets held for sale in the consolidated balance sheets. Two of these properties were sold during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 and the first quarter of 2016, respectively. On January 3, 2016, the remaining propertys fair value was reclassified to property, equipment and leasehold improvements, net because it was not probable that the assets would be sold in the next 12 months. 30 Table of Contents Fiscal Year Ended (dollars in thousands) January 1, 2017 January 3, 2016 Asset Impairments Restaurant optimization $ 4,376 $ Software (1) 156 Mays Landing, NJ 50 Smithtown, NY (2) 935 Total $ 4,582 $ 935 Restaurant closure expenses Smithtown, NY (3) 200 Other (6) 6 (6 ) N. Riverside, IL (4) 368 Richmond, VA area 143 N. Riverside, IL (5) 122 Eden Prairie, MN (42 ) Total restaurant closure expenses $ 206 $ 585 Provision for impairment and restaurant closings $ 4,788 $ 1,520 (1) Asset impairment calculated at July 3, 2016 related to a software implementation project that was discontinued. (2) Asset impairment calculated at June 28, 2015 based upon expected sale of Smithtown restaurant. (3) Lease termination reserve associated with a letter of credit provided to a landlord for a previously closed restaurant. (4) Lease termination costs associated with the cancellation of a potential new restaurant location. (5) Write off of development costs associated with the cancellation of a potential new restaurant location. (6) Includes $191,000 in costs written-off associated with closing the Lombard, Illinois field office partially offset by an $86,000 recapture of deferred rent credits. Pre-opening Expenses Pre-opening expenses consist of labor, food, utilities, training and rent costs incurred prior to the opening of a restaurant. Included in pre-opening costs is pre-opening rent for approximately 16 weeks prior to opening but this will vary based on lease terms. During fiscal 2016 and 2015, we had $0 and $1,000, respectively, of pre-opening expenses which included pre-opening rent and other pre-opening expenses. Interest Expense Interest expense was approximately $855,000, or 0.9%, of total revenue for fiscal 2016, and $1.0 million, or 0.9%, of total revenue for fiscal 2015. Interest Income Interest income was approximately $2,000 for fiscal 2016 and $11,000 for fiscal 2015. Interest income reflects interest received on short-term cash and cash equivalent balances as well as on outstanding accounts receivable balances. Provision for Income Taxes For fiscal 2016, our tax provision was a benefit of approximately $2.0 million, or 40.5%, of loss before income taxes, compared to the prior year comparable period expense of approximately $48,000, or 4.3% of income before income taxes. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2016 reflected year over year changes in pre-tax income (loss). 31 Table of Contents Income or loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes For fiscal 2016, our income from discontinued operations was approximately $511,000 reflecting two months of operations prior to the disposal of discontinued operations offset by approximately $442,000 of tax expense. This compares to a loss from discontinued operations totaling approximately $5.5 million for fiscal 2015, reflecting a $2,000 operating loss combined with an $8.8 million asset impairment charge, offset by a $3.3 million tax benefit. Basic and Diluted Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share Net loss for fiscal 2016 was approximately $2.9 million, or $0.42 per basic and diluted share, respectively, on approximately 6,950,000 weighted average basic and diluted shares outstanding. Net income for fiscal 2015 was approximately $1.1 million, or $0.15 per basic and diluted share, respectively, on approximately 6,992,000 weighted average basic shares outstanding and approximately 7,013,000 weighted average diluted shares outstanding, respectively. Fiscal Year 2015 Compared to Fiscal Year 2014 Total Revenue Total revenue of approximately $114.2 million for fiscal 2015 decreased approximately $17.6 million, or 13.4%, from total revenue of $131.9 million in fiscal 2014, reflecting the refranchising of five Company-owned restaurants and the closure of one Company-owned restaurant as well as a comparable sales decline, partially offset by revenues from the 53 rd week of fiscal 2015. Fiscal 2015 had 53 operating weeks while 2014 consisted of 52 weeks. Restaurant Sales, net Restaurant sales, net for fiscal 2015 were approximately $95.5 million, compared to approximately $113.5 million for fiscal 2014 reflecting a 15.9% decrease. Total restaurant sales reflected the refranchising of five Company-owned restaurants, closure of one Company-owned restaurant during 2015, and the annualized impact of three restaurants closed at the end of fiscal 2014. During fiscal 2015 there was a 9.3% comparable sales decrease which was, on a weighted basis, comprised of a 7.7% comparable sales decrease for dine-in sales, a 2.0% comparable sales decrease for To Go, and a 0.4% comparable sales increase for catering. Franchise-Related Revenue Franchise-related revenue consists of royalty revenue and franchise fees, which includes initial franchise fees and area development fees. Franchise-related revenue was approximately $17.8 million in fiscal 2015 and $17.4 million in fiscal 2014. The franchise-related revenue reflected three franchise-operated openings in fiscal 2015 and five Company-owned restaurants that were refranchised, combined with the impact of the 53 rd week. These increases were partially offset by the closure of twelve franchise-operated restaurants in fiscal 2015 and a comparable sales decline of 2.5%. Fiscal 2015 included 7,107 franchise operating weeks, compared to 7,244 franchise operating weeks in fiscal 2014. There were 135 franchise-operated restaurants open at January 3, 2016, compared to 139 at December 28, 2014. Licensing and Other Revenue Licensing revenue includes royalties from a retail line of business, including sauces, rubs, marinades and seasonings. Other revenue includes opening assistance and training we provide to our franchise partners. Licensing revenue was approximately $940,000 for fiscal 2015 as compared to $878,000 for fiscal 2014. Other revenue for fiscal 2015 was approximately $14,000 compared to approximately $76,000 for the comparable period of fiscal 2014. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the number of franchise openings year over year and a corresponding decrease in the opening assistance required. Same Store Net Sales It is our policy to include in our same store net sales base, restaurants that are open year-round and have been open at least 24 months. Same store net sales for Company-owned restaurants open at least 24 months ended January 3, 2016 decreased 9.3%, compared to fiscal 2014s decrease of 5.7%. For fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, there were 35 and 42 restaurants, respectively, included in the Company-owned 24 month comparable sales base. 32 Table of Contents Same store net sales on a 24 month basis for franchise-operated restaurants for fiscal 2015 decreased 2.5%, compared to fiscal 2014s comparable same store net sales which were down 2.5%. For fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, there were 115 and 117 restaurants, respectively, included in the franchise-operated 24 month comparable sales base. Same store net sales for franchise-operated restaurants are not revenues of the Company and are not included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Companys management believes that disclosure of comparable restaurant net sales for franchise-operated restaurants provides useful information to investors because historical performance and trends of Famous Daves franchisees relate directly to trends in franchise royalty revenues that the Company receives from such franchisees and have an impact on the perceived success and value of the Famous Daves brand. It also provides a comparison against which management and investors can analyze the extent to which Company-owned restaurants are realizing their revenue potential. Average Weekly Net Sales and Operating Weeks The following table shows Company-owned and franchise-operated average weekly net sales for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014: Fiscal Years Ended January 3, December 28, 2016 2014 Average Weekly Net Sales (AWS): Company-Owned $ 42,661 $ 46,836 Full-Service $ 43,330 $ 47,784 Counter-Service $ 37,896 $ 39,034 Franchise-Operated (1) $ 50,202 $ 51,059 (1) AWS for franchise-operated restaurants are not revenues of the Company and are not included in the Companys consolidated financial statements. The Companys management believes that disclosure of comparable restaurant net sales for franchise-operated restaurants provides useful information to investors because historical performance and trends of Famous Daves franchisees relate directly to trends in franchise royalty revenues that the Company receives from such franchisees and have an impact on the perceived success and value of the Famous Daves brand. It also provides a comparison against which management and investors can analyze the extent to which Company-owned restaurants are realizing their revenue potential. Food and Beverage Costs Food and beverage costs for fiscal 2015 were approximately $29.1 million, or 30.5%, of net restaurant sales compared to approximately $33.5 million, or 29.5%, of net restaurant sales for fiscal 2014. This increase as a percent of sales was the result of anticipated food contract inflation partially offset by a settlement of a class action suit. Labor and Benefits Costs Labor and benefits costs for fiscal 2015 were approximately $32.6 million, or 34.1%, of net restaurant sales, compared to approximately $36.9 million, or 32.5%, of net restaurant sales for fiscal 2014. This increase as a percent of restaurant sales, net was primarily due to sales deleverage on fixed and management labor costs and in efficiencies in direct labor controls as a result of the implementation of a new labor management system for part of fiscal 2015. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for fiscal 2015 were approximately $27.8 million, or 29.1%, of net restaurant sales, compared to approximately $31.5 million, or 27.8%, of net restaurant sales for fiscal 2014. This increase as a percent of sales was primarily related to sales deleverage on fixed operating costs as well as a year over year increase in repairs and maintenance. 33 Table of Contents In fiscal 2015, advertising, as a percentage of sales, was approximately 2.6% compared to fiscal 2014s percentage at 2.7%. For 2015, the Marketing Fund contribution returned to 1.0% and was 0.75% in fiscal 2014. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense for fiscal 2015 and 2014 was approximately $4.5 million and $5.2 million, respectively, and was 3.9% and 3.9%, respectively, of total revenue. The decline in total expense reflects the reduction in total property, equipment and leasehold improvements due to the refranchising or closure of six restaurants during fiscal 2015. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses for fiscal 2015 were approximately $19.0 million or 16.7% of total revenue compared to approximately $15.9 million, or 12.1%, of total revenue for fiscal 2014. Recurring core general and administrative expenses have decreased year over year. However, these reductions were offset by expenses incurred for professional and consulting fees related to brand development, legal fees, a reserve for obsolete plate ware, and severance costs incurred for the closure of the Chicago office, compounded by revenue deleverage. Asset Impairment and Estimated Lease Termination and Other Closing Costs The following is a summary of events for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014: Richmond, VA Area Restaurant Closures On December 29, 2014, the Company announced the closure of its three underperforming Company-owned restaurants located in and around Richmond, Virginia. The associated impairment charges primarily related to the write-off of the book value of the related property, plant and equipment, net of estimated proceeds from the sale of these assets (primarily derived from the sale of real property). Loss before taxes associated with these operations for the year ended December 28, 2014 totaled approximately $187,000. On December 28, 2014 the remaining book values, were valued at the estimated proceeds from the sale and were recorded as assets held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Two of these properties were sold during the third quarter of fiscal 2015 and the first quarter of 2016, respectively. On January 3, 2016, the remaining propertys fair value was reclassified to property, equipment and leasehold improvements, net because it was not probable that the assets would be sold in the next 12 months. 34 Table of Contents (dollars in thousands) January 3, 2016 December 28, 2014 Asset Impairments Smithtown, NY (1) $ 935 $ Mays Landing, NJ 766 Richmond, VA area 2,285 Two Minneapolis, MN area restaurants 544 Dcor 342 Des Moines, IA 226 Total $ 935 $ 4,163 Restaurant closure expenses N. Riverside, IL (2) 368 Richmond, VA area 143 54 N. Riverside, IL (3) 122 Other (4) (6 ) Eden Prairie, MN (42 ) Salisbury, MD 206 Dcor Warehouse 94 Total restaurant closure expenses $ 585 $ 354 Provision for impairment and restaurant closings $ 1,520 $ 4,517 (1) Asset impairment calculated at June 28, 2015 based upon expected sale of Smithtown restaurant. (2) Lease termination costs associated with the cancellation of a potential new restaurant location. (3) Write off of development costs associated with the cancellation of a potential new restaurant location. (4) Includes $191,000 in costs written-off associated with closing the Lombard, Illinois field office partially offset by an $86,000 recapture of deferred rent credits. Pre-opening Expenses Pre-opening expenses consist of labor, food, utilities, training and rent costs incurred prior to the opening of a restaurant. Included in pre-opening costs is pre-opening rent for approximately 16 weeks prior to opening but this will vary based on lease terms. During fiscal 2015 and 2014, we had $1,000 and $7,000, respectively, of pre-opening expenses which included pre-opening rent and other pre-opening expenses. Interest Expense Interest expense was approximately $1.0 million, or 0.9%, of total revenue for fiscal 2015 and approximately $867,000, or 0.7%, of total revenue for fiscal 2014. This year over year increase was the result of the write-off of deferred financing costs related to the December 2015 credit facility amendment. Interest Income Interest income was approximately $11,000 for fiscal 2015 and approximately $2,000 for fiscal 2014, respectively. Interest income reflects interest received on short-term cash and cash equivalent balances as well as on outstanding notes receivable and accounts receivable balances. Provision for Income Taxes For fiscal 2015, our tax provision was approximately $48,000, or 4.3%, of income before income taxes, compared to the fiscal 2014 tax provision of approximately $732,000, or 24.5%, of income before income taxes. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2015 reflected year over year change in pre-tax income. 35 Table of Contents Income or loss from discontinued operations, net of taxes For fiscal 2015, our income from discontinued operations totaled approximately $5.5 million reflecting an operating loss of approximately $2,000 combined with an $8.8 million asset impairment charge, offset by a $3.3 million tax benefit. This compares to income of approximately $642,000 from discontinued operations in 2014 reflecting operating income of $1.0 million offset by approximately $367,000 of income tax expense. Basic and Diluted Net Income Per Common Share Net income for fiscal 2015 was approximately $1.1 million, or $0.15 per basic and diluted share, respectively, on approximately 6,992,000 weighted average basic shares outstanding and approximately 7,013,000 weighted average diluted shares outstanding, respectively. Net income for fiscal 2014 was approximately $2.3 million, or $0.31 per basic and diluted share, respectively, on approximately 7,199,000 weighted average basic shares outstanding and approximately 7,226,000 weighted average diluted shares outstanding, respectively. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 1, 2017, our Company held cash and cash equivalents of approximately $4.5 million compared to approximately $5.3 million as of January 3, 2016. Our cash balance primarily reflects net cash flows from operations of $1.3 million and $1.1 million generated from the sales of restaurant assets and dcor, offset by net debt repayments of $2.7 million and the purchases of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements for approximately $758,000. Our current ratio, which measures our immediate short-term liquidity, was 1.48 at January 1, 2017, compared to 1.18 at January 3, 2016. The current ratio is computed by dividing total current assets by total current liabilities. The change in our current ratio was primarily due to an $822,000 reduction in the current portion of long-term debt due to the long-term refinancing of the debt and a $579,000 increase in accounts receivable. This was partially offset by the disposal of $2.2 million of net assets held for sale in conjunction with the refranchising of our Chicago restaurants and the sale of land for a previously closed restaurant. Net cash provided by (used for) operations for each of the last three fiscal years was approximately $1.3 million in fiscal 2016, $(1.9) million in fiscal 2015, and $11.1 million in fiscal 2014. Cash generated by operations in fiscal 2016 was primarily from depreciation and amortization of approximately $3.7 million, and asset impairment, lease reserve and closing costs of $4.8 million. These net increases were partially offset by a net loss of approximately ($2.9) million, an increase in accounts receivable of $1.2 million, and an increase in prepaid expense and other current assets of $1.9 million. Cash used by operations in fiscal 2015 was primarily from net income of approximately $1.1 million, increased by depreciation and amortization of approximately $4.5 million, and asset impairment, lease reserve and closing costs of $1.5 million. These net increases were partially offset by a $2.3 million gain on the disposal of property, a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $2.2 million, and an increase in accounts receivable of $1.2 million. Cash generated by operations in fiscal 2014 was primarily from net income of approximately $2.3 million, depreciation and amortization of approximately $5.2 million, and asset impairment, lease reserve and closing costs of $4.5 million and a $1.2 million increase in other liabilities. These net increases were partially offset by a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $1.2 million, a tax benefit for equity awards issued of $1.2 million, and a decrease in accounts payable of $866,000. Net cash provided by investing activities for fiscal 2016 and 2015 was approximately $310,000 and $4.3 million, respectively. Net cash used for investing activities for fiscal 2014 was approximately $1.5 million. In fiscal 2016 we generated $1.1 million from the sale of real estate for one previously closed restaurant. In fiscal 2015 we generated $7.5 million from the refranchising of five company-owned restaurants and the sale of real estate for two previously closed restaurants. In fiscal 2014 we used approximately $1.4 million for capital expenditures for remodeling projects and various corporate infrastructure projects. Net cash used for financing activities was approximately $2.7 million in fiscal 2016, $3.1 million in fiscal 2015, and $9.0 million in fiscal 2014. In fiscal 2016, we had draws on our line of credit of approximately $1.9 million. 36 Table of Contents We had repayments of approximately $4.4 million on our long-term debt. The maximum balance on our line of credit during fiscal 2016 was $1.9 million. In fiscal 2015 we had draws on our line of credit of approximately $27.7 million and had repayments of approximately $24.4 million. The maximum balance on our line of credit during fiscal 2015 was $17.7 million. Additionally, in fiscal 2015, we used approximately $5.7 million to repurchase approximately 195,899 shares of our common stock at an average price of $28.92 per share, including commissions. In fiscal 2014, we had draws on our line of credit of approximately $22.4 million and had repayments of approximately $28.8 million. The maximum balance on our line of credit during fiscal 2014 was $14.9 million. Additionally, in fiscal 2014, we used approximately $2.7 million to repurchase approximately 101,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $25.72 per share, including commissions. On December 2, 2016 (the Effective Date), the Company entered into a Loan Agreement (the First Loan Agreement) among the Company and Minwood Partners, Inc., as borrowers, and Venture Bank, as lender (the Lender). Also on the Effective Date, the Company entered into a loan agreement providing among the Company, as lead borrower, certain of its affiliates also as borrowers, and the Lender for two additional loans (the Second Loan Agreement). See Long-Term Debt under Note 7 of our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The First Loan Agreement provides for a loan from the Lender to the borrowers set forth therein in the principal amount of $3.7 million and is evidenced by a promissory note (the First Note) executed and delivered by the borrowers to the Lender on the Effective Date. The First Note has a maturity date of December 2, 2026 and shall be paid in monthly installments of principal and interest based on a twenty-year amortization period. Interest per annum shall be at a rate of 4.25% for years 1 through 5 and for years 6 through the end of the term LIBOR rate plus 375 basis points, subject to adjustment at the discretion of the Lender, as further set forth therein. The First Note may be prepaid, subject to certain prepayment premiums, provided, however, that during any calendar year the borrowers may prepay principal of up to 20% of the original principal amount without paying a prepayment premium. The Second Loan Agreement provides for two separate loans from the Lender to the borrowers set forth therein in the aggregate principal amount of $7.3 million, one in the principal amount of $6.3 million (Loan 2) and the other in the principal amount of $1 million (Loan 3). Loan 2 is evidenced by a promissory note in the principal amount of $6.3 million (the Second Note). The Second Note has a maturity date of December 2, 2023 and shall be paid in monthly installments of principal and interest based on a seven-year amortization period. Interest per annum shall be at a rate equal to the LIBOR rate plus 325 basis points (each of such terms as defined in the Second Note), subject to adjustment at the discretion of the Lender and as further set forth therein. The Second Note may be prepaid at any time without incurring a prepayment premium. Loan 3 is evidenced by a promissory note in the principal amount of $1 million (the Third Note). The Third Note has a maturity date of December 2, 2019 and shall first be paid in monthly installments of the interest then accrued on the principal balance and then in full on the maturity date. Interest per annum shall be at a rate equal to the LIBOR rate plus 325 basis points (each of such terms as defined in the Third Note), subject to adjustment at the discretion of the Lender, as further set forth therein. The Third Note may be prepaid at any time without incurring a prepayment premium. The weighted average interest rate of the First, Second and Third notes for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2017 was 4.0%. The weighted average interest rate of the Term Loans for fiscal years ended January 1, 2017 and January 3, 2016 was 3.69% and 2.66%, respectively. The First and Second Loan Agreements contain customary representations and warranties and financial and other covenants and conditions, including, among other things, minimum debt service coverage ratio and a post-closing covenant to obtain certain letters of credit. The First Loan Agreement also places certain restrictions on, among other things, the borrowers ability to incur additional indebtedness, to create liens or other encumbrances, to use funds for purposes other than as stated therein, to sell or otherwise dispose of assets and to expand on or erect any new material improvements, as such term is defined therein. In addition, the First and Second Loan Agreements contain events of default (subject to certain materiality thresholds and grace periods), including, without limitation, payment defaults; breaches of covenants; breaches of representations and warranties; failure to perform remediation of any environmental matters on the mortgaged property, as set forth in the First Mortgage; failure to perform or observe the covenants, conditions or terms of the First Loan Agreement and related agreements; certain bankruptcy events of the borrowers and failure to timely provide financial statements. 37 Table of Contents If, in the event of a default, the Lender were to call the debt prior to expiration, the Company believes there are multiple options available to obtain other sources of financing. Although possibly at different terms, the Company believes there would be other lenders available and willing to finance a new credit facility. However, if replacement financing were unavailable to us, termination of the Facility without adequate replacement would have a material and adverse impact on our ability to continue our business operations. On December 2, 2016, the Company used approximately $9.9 million of the proceeds from borrowings under the First Loan Agreement and Second Loan Agreement to fund repayment of certain outstanding amounts under that certain Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of May 8, 2015, as amended (the Credit Agreement) by and among the Company and its subsidiaries and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent on behalf of the Lenders under the Credit Agreement and the Lenders. For a period of up to 45 days following December 2, 2016, one letter of credit in the amount of $625,000 and a related cash collateral pledge remained outstanding under the Credit Agreement. Other than in respect of this letter of credit and related pledge, as well as certain breakage and treasury service management fees, the Companys obligations under the Credit Agreement were terminated on December 2, 2016. At January 1, 2017, the Company had $1.0 million of additional borrowing capacity in Loan 3. We expect to use any additional borrowings under the Loan 3 for general working capital purchases as needed. The First Loan Agreement is secured by a mortgage and security agreement and fixture financing statement (the First Mortgage) granting to the Lender a security interest in and title to certain real property in the state of Minnesota and as more fully described therein. Loan 2 is secured by a mortgage dated as of the Effective Date (the Second Mortgage) which is subordinate to the First Mortgage, a security interest in substantially all of the personal property of the borrowers pursuant to a security agreement dated as of the Effective Date (the Security Agreement) and a pledge of certain certificates of deposit pursuant to a pledge agreement also dated as of the Effective Date (the Pledge Agreement). Loan 3 is secured by a security interest on substantially all of the personal property of the borrowers pursuant to the Security Agreement and a pledge of certain certificates of deposit pursuant to the Pledge Agreement. As of January 1, 2017, we were in compliance with all of our covenants. Contractual Obligations (In thousands) Payments Due by Period (including interest) Total 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Thereafter Long Term Debt (1) $ 12,225 $ 1,308 $ 1,308 $ 1,308 $ 1,308 $ 1,308 $ 5,685 Financing Leases 3,245 700 707 1,838 (2) Operating Lease Obligations 114,444 5,765 5,776 5,856 5,949 5,849 85,249 Total $ 129,914 $ 7,773 $ 7,791 $ 9,002 $ 7,257 $ 7,157 $ 90,934 (1) This is variable interest rate debt and the interest expense assumption was based on projected interest rates averaging either 4.25% or 3.885% over the term of the loan at January 1, 2017. (2) Includes $1.7 million of land to be conveyed at the end of the lease term. See Notes 7 and 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for details of our contractual obligations. 38 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Our Company does not have any off-balance sheet arrangements (as such term is defined in Item 303 of regulation S-K) that are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition or changes in financial condition, operating results, or liquidity. Income Taxes In fiscal 2016, we had cumulative state net operating loss carry-forwards for tax reporting purposes of approximately $43.4 million which if not used, will begin to expire in fiscal 2018. This amount may be adjusted when we file our fiscal 2016 income tax returns in fiscal 2017. Recent Accounting Guidance Recently adopted accounting guidance In January 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2015-01, Income StatementExtraordinary and Unusual Items. This update eliminates from Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) the concept of extraordinary items. ASU 2015-01 is effective for the first interim period within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted provided that the guidance is applied from the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. A reporting entity may apply the amendments prospectively or retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. The Company adopted this ASU in the first quarter of 2016, but it had no impact on the consolidated financial statements. In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance on the financial statement presentation of debt issuance costs. This guidance requires debt issuance costs to be presented in the balance sheet as a reduction of the related debt liability rather than as an asset. The standard will become effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015 and for interim periods beginning after December 15, 2016. Early adoption is permitted. The standard requires companies to apply the guidance retrospectively to all prior periods. The Company adopted this at fiscal year-end of 2016 but it did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17, Income Taxes: Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes, which requires entities to present deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted for all entities. The Company adopted this at fiscal year-end of 2016 but it did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09, Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting. ASU 2016-09 simplifies several aspects related to the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, statutory tax withholding requirements and classification on the statement of cash flows. For public entities, ASU 2016-09 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016, and interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this at fiscal year-end of 2016 but it did not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Recent accounting guidance not yet adopted In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. The FASB issued ASU No. 2016-08, Revenue from Contracts with Customers: Principal versus Agent Considerations (Reporting Revenue Gross versus Net) in March 2016, ASU 2016-10 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Identifying Performance Obligations and Licensing in April 2016, ASU 2016-11, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) and Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Rescission of SEC Guidance Because of Accounting Standards Updates 2014-09 and 2014-16 Pursuant to Staff Announcements at the March 3, 2016 EITF Meeting in May 2016 and ASU 2016-12, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Narrow-Scope Improvements and Practical Expedients in May 2016. These new standards provide for a single, principles-based model for revenue recognition that replaces the existing revenue recognition guidance. In July 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of ASU 2014-09 until annual and interim periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017. It will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. It permits the use of either a retrospective 39 Table of Contents or cumulative effect transition method and early adoption is not permitted. The Company has not yet selected a transition method and is currently evaluating the impact these standards will have on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes the existing guidance for lease accounting, Leases (Topic 840). ASU 2016-02 requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for all leases. Lessor accounting remains largely unchanged. The amendments in this ASU are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted for all entities. ASU 2016-02 requires a modified retrospective approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after the date of initial adoption, with an option to elect to use certain transition relief. As shown in Note 8, there are $114.4 million in future minimum rental payments for operating leases that are not currently on our balance sheet; therefore, we expect this will have a material impact on our balance sheet and related disclosures. In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-15, Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments. ASU 2016-15 addresses how certain cash receipts and cash payments are presented and classified in the statement of cash flows under Topic 230, Statement of Cash flow, and other Topics. ASU 2016-15 is effective for annual reporting periods, and interim periods therein, beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company does not expect the adoption of this guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. Inflation The primary inflationary factors affecting our operations include food, beverage, and labor costs. In addition, our leases require us to pay taxes, maintenance, repairs and utilities and these costs are subject to inflationary increases. In some cases, some of our lease commitments are tied to consumer price index (CPI) increases. We are also subject to interest rate changes based on market conditions. We believe that increasing inflation rates have contributed to some price instability. There is no assurance, however, that inflation rates will continue at their current levels or decrease.