Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations References in this report (the Quarterly Report) to we, us or the Company refer to VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings III, Inc. References to our management or our management team refer to our officers and directors, and references to the Sponsor refer to VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings Sponsor III, LLC. The following discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto contained elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. Certain information contained in the discussion and analysis set forth below includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Quarterly Report includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are not historical facts and involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected and projected. All statements, other than statements of historical fact included in this Form10-Q including, without limitation, statements in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations regarding the completion of the Proposed Business Combination (as defined below), the Companys financial position, business strategy and the plans and objectives of management for future operations, are forward-looking statements. Words such as expect, believe, anticipate, intend, estimate, seek and variations and similar words and expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements relate to future events or future performance, but reflect managements current beliefs, based on information currently available. A number of factors could cause actual events, performance or results to differ materially from the events, performance and results discussed in the forward-looking statements, including that the conditions of the Proposed Business Combination are not satisfied. For information identifying important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements, please refer to the Risk Factors section of the Companys final prospectus for its Initial Public Offering filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The Companys securities filings can be accessed on the EDGAR section of the SECs website at www.sec.gov. Except as expressly required by applicable securities law, the Company disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Overview We are a blank check company formed under the laws of the State of Delaware on January 14, 2021 the purpose of effecting a merger, share exchange, asset acquisition, share purchase, reorganization or similar business combination with one or more businesses or entities. We intend to effectuate our Business Combination using cash from the proceeds of the Initial Public Offering and the sale of the Private Placement Warrants, our capital stock, debt or a combination of cash, stock and debt. We expect to continue to incur significant costs in the pursuit of our acquisition plans. We cannot assure you that our plans to complete a Business Combination will be successful. On June 7, 2021, the Company, a Delaware corporation, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), by and among the Company, Bear Merger Company I Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (First Merger Sub), Bear Merger Company II LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (Second Merger Sub and together with First Merger Sub, the Merger Subs), and Dave Inc., a Delaware corporation (Dave), pursuant to which, among other things: (a) First Merger Sub will merge with and into Dave (the First Merger), with Dave being the surviving corporation of the First Merger (such company, in its capacity as the surviving corporation of the First Merger, the Surviving Corporation); and (b) immediately following the First Merger and as part of the same overall transaction as the First Merger, the Surviving Corporation will merge with and into Second Merger Sub (the Second Merger and together with the First Merger, the Mergers), with Second Merger Sub being the surviving company of the Second Merger. The transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement (the Transactions), including the Mergers, will constitute a Business Combination as contemplated by the Companys existing amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Recapitalization Prior to the closing of the Mergers (the Closing), Dave will cause (collectively, the Recapitalization): (a) each share of Daves preferred stock that is issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the First Merger (the Effective Time) to automatically convert into a number of shares of Daves common stock, par value $0.00001 per share (the Dave Common Stock), at their respective conversion ratio; (b) a dual-class Dave common stock structure to be implemented consisting of (x) Class A common stock, par value $0.00001 per share (Dave Class A Common Stock), with respect to which each holder thereof has one (1) vote per share on each matter subject to the vote of the Dave stockholders, and (y) Class V common stock, par value $0.00001 per share (the Dave Class V Common Stock and together with the Dave Class A Common Stock (including any vested shares of restricted Dave Common stock), the Dave Stock), with respect to which each holder thereof has ten (10) votes per share on each matter subject to the vote of the Dave stockholders; (c) each authorized share of the Dave Common Stock to automatically convert, effective as of the Recapitalization, into a share of Dave Class A Common Stock; and (d) immediately thereafter, each share of Dave Class A Common Stock held by Jason Wilk, the Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder of Dave (Mr. Wilk), as of immediately prior to the consummation of the Recapitalization to be exchanged or converted into one (1) share of Dave Class V Common Stock. Merger Consideration Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the stockholders of Dave, including holders of restricted shares of the Daves Common Stock (Dave Restricted Stock) (such holders, collectively, the Dave Stockholders) and holders of vested Dave Options (as defined below), will receive aggregate merger consideration with an implied value of $3,500,000,000 (the Equity Value), consisting of a number of shares of Company Common Stock (as defined and more fully described below), with each deemed to have a value of $10.00 per share, equal to the Equity Value divided by $10.00 (the Aggregate Stock Consideration). 20 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the Effective Time, (a) each share of Dave Class A Common Stock held by the Dave Stockholders will be cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive a number of shares of newly issued Class A common stock of the Company, par value $0.0001 (Company Class A Common Stock), equal to an exchange ratio (the Per Share Dave Stock Consideration) determined by dividing the Aggregate Stock Consideration by the sum of (without duplication): (i) the aggregate number of shares of Dave Stock outstanding as of immediately prior to the Effective Time and following the consummation of the Recapitalization (including all shares of Dave Restricted Stock, whether vested or unvested); (ii) the aggregate number of shares of Dave Stock that are issuable upon the exercise or settlement of all Dave Options and Dave Non-Plan Options (in each case, as defined below) that are unexpired, issued, outstanding and vested as of immediately prior to the Effective Time (assuming, for purposes of this calculation, that all such Dave Options and Dave Non-Plan Options are exercised on a net exercise basis based on the assumption, solely for purposes of this calculation, that the fair market value of each share underlying such Dave Options or Dave Non-Plan Options equals (x) the Per Share Dave Stock Consideration multiplied by (y) ten dollars ($10.00)); and (iii) the aggregate number of shares of Dave Stock that are issuable upon the exercise or settlement of all Dave Warrants that are unexpired, issued, outstanding and vested as of immediately prior to the Effective Time (assuming, for purposes of this calculation, that all such Dave Warrants are vested and exercised on a net exercise basis based on the assumption, solely for purposes of this calculation, that the fair market value of each share underlying such Dave Warrants equals the (x) Per Share Dave Stock Consideration multiplied by (y) ten dollars ($10.00)) (the Dave Stock Adjusted Fully Diluted Shares) and (b) each share of Dave Class V Common Stock held by the Dave Stockholders will be cancelled and automatically converted into the right to receive a number of shares of newly authorized and issued Class V common stock of the Company, par value $0.0001 (Company Class V Common Stock and together with the Company Class A Common Stock, Company Common Stock), equal to the Per Share Dave Stock Consideration. Each option to purchase shares of capital stock of Dave (Dave Option) that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the Effective Time (whether vested or unvested) (other than certain options to purchase shares of capital stock of Dave granted outside of the terms and conditions of Daves stock plans (Dave Non-Plan Options)) will be automatically assumed by the Company and converted into an option to acquire an adjusted number of shares of Company Class A Common Stock (pursuant to a ratio based on the Per Share Dave Stock Consideration) (each such resulting option, a Rollover Option) at an adjusted exercise price per share and will continue to be governed by substantially the same terms and conditions (including vesting and exercisability terms) as were applicable to the corresponding former Dave Option, except to the extent such terms or conditions are rendered inoperative by the Transactions or such other immaterial administrative or ministerial changes as the parties to the Merger Agreement may determine are appropriate to effectuate the administration of the Rollover Options. The shares of Dave Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of Dave Options that are outstanding, unexercised and unvested immediately prior to the Effective Time (such options, the Unvested Dave Options) are not included in the calculation of the Dave Stock Adjusted Fully Diluted Shares for purposes of the calculation of the Per Share Dave Stock Consideration, and the shares of the Company Class A Common Stock issuable upon the exercise of Rollover Options representing at the Effective Time Unvested Dave Options (such shares, Unvested Rollover Option Shares) are not considered a part of the Aggregate Stock Consideration. The Unvested Rollover Option Shares will reduce the shares of Company Class A Common Stock initially available for issuance under the new equity incentive plan that the Company will adopt as of the Closing. Each Dave Non-Plan Option that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the Effective Time will be automatically cancelled for no consideration. Each award of the Dave Restricted Stock that is outstanding and unvested immediately prior to the Effective Time will be automatically assumed by the Company and converted into an award of restricted stock with respect to an adjusted number of shares of Company Class A Common Stock (pursuant to a ratio based on the Per Share Dave Stock Consideration) (the Rollover Restricted Stock) and will continue to be governed by substantially the same terms and conditions (including vesting terms) as were applicable to the corresponding former Dave Restricted Stock, except to the extent such terms or conditions are rendered inoperative by the Transactions or such other immaterial administrative or ministerial changes as the parties to the Merger Agreement may determine are appropriate to effectuate the administration of the Rollover Restricted Stock. Each warrant to purchase shares of capital stock of Dave (Dave Warrants) that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the Effective Time will be automatically terminated in accordance with the terms of the applicable Dave Warrant and be of no further force or effect as of the Effective Time. High Vote Shares Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, immediately prior to the Closing, the Companys current amended and restated certificate of incorporation will be further amended and restated (the Company A&R Charter) to, among other things, (a) establish a dual-class Company Common Stock structure consisting of Company Class A Common Stock and Parent Class V Common Stock, and (b) provide that each share of Company Class A Common Stock will be entitled to one (1) vote per share and each share of Company Class V Common Stock will be entitled to ten (10) votes per share (the High Vote). In connection with the Transactions, the shares of Company Common Stock received as consideration by Mr. Wilk will be shares of Company Class V Common Stock, and will entitle Mr. Wilk to the High Vote until such time as such shares of Company Class V Common Stock are exchanged pursuant to the terms of the Company A&R Charter for an equal number of shares of Company Class A Common Stock (i) at the option of Mr. Wilk, (ii) upon a transfer to an unaffiliated third party, (iii) upon termination of Mr. Wilks employment with the Company, Dave or any of their subsidiaries for Cause (as defined in the Company A&R Charter) or the resignation by Mr. Wilk other than for Good Reason (as defined in the Company A&R Charter) and following such resignation Mr. Wilk no longer provides services in a capacity as an officer, employee or director of the Company, (iv) upon Mr. Wilks death or incapacity or (v) the date that the number of shares of capital stock of the Company, including any shares of capital stock of the Company underlying any securities (including restricted stock units, options, or other convertible instruments) convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable into shares of capital stock of the Company, held by Mr. Wilk and certain permitted transferees is less than 35% of the number of shares of Class V Common Stock held by Mr. Wilk and such permitted transferees at the Effective Time (whichever is earlier). Mr. Wilks shares of Company Class V Common Stock will provide him with approximately 70% of the voting power of the Company Common Stock outstanding immediately following the Effective Time (and prior to any repurchases of shares of the Company Class V Common Stock by Parent pursuant to the Repurchase (as defined and further discussed below)), assuming no redemptions by the Companys stockholders. 21 Table of Contents The parties to the Merger Agreement have made customary representations, warranties and covenants in the Merger Agreement, including, among others, covenants with respect to the conduct of Dave and the Company and its subsidiaries prior to the Closing. The Closing is subject to certain customary conditions. Repurchase Agreement Concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Company, Dave, Mr. Wilk and Kyle Beilman, the Chief Financial Officer of Dave (Mr. Beilman and together with Mr. Wilk, the Selling Holders), entered into a repurchase agreement (the Repurchase Agreement) pursuant to which, among other things, the Company has agreed to repurchase a certain number of shares of Company Common Stock from the Selling Holders (including shares of Company Class V Common Stock issued to Mr. Wilk in connection with the Transactions), at a purchase price of $10.00 per share, on the business day immediately following the effective time of the Second Merger (the Repurchase). The Repurchase is contingent on the amount of Parent Cash (as defined in the Merger Agreement) being in excess of $300 million. If Parent Cash exceeds $300 million, the number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to the Repurchase will be equal to the amount by which Parent Cash exceed $300 million (the Aggregate Repurchase Price), divided by $10.00 (provided that in no event will the Aggregate Repurchase Price exceed $60 million). 80% of the number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to the Repurchase will be allocated to Mr. Wilk, with Mr. Beilman allocated the remaining 20%. For more information about the Merger Agreement and the proposed business combination, see our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on June 7, 2021 (File No. 001-40161) and the prospectus included in our Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed with the SEC on October 6, 2021 (File No. 333-260083) (the Form S-4), as amended, and other filings that the Company makes with the SEC discussing the proposed Transactions. Unless specifically stated, this Quarterly Report does not give effect to the Transactions and does not contain the risks associated with the Transactions. Such risks and effects relating to the proposed Transactions are included in the Form S-4. Results of Operations We have neither engaged in any operations (other than searching for a Business Combination after our Initial Public Offering) nor generated any revenues to date. Our only activities through September 30, 2021 were organizational activities, those necessary to prepare for the Initial Public Offering, described below, and, after the Initial Public Offering, identifying a target company for a Business Combination. We do not expect to generate any operating revenues until after the completion of our Business Combination. We generate non-operating income in the form of interest income on marketable securities held in the Trust Account. We incur expenses as a result of being a public company (for legal, financial reporting, accounting and auditing compliance), as well as for due diligence expenses in connection with completing a Business Combination. For the three months ended September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $2,676,840, which consists of formation and operational costs of $1,319,447 and the change in fair value of warrant liability of $1,360,659, offset by interest income earned on marketable securities held in Trust Account of $3,266. For the period from January 14, 2021 (inception) through September 30, 2021, we had a net loss of $7,805,910, which consists of formation and operational costs of $3,401,685, a change in fair value of warrant liability of $3,819,820, and transaction costs allocated to warrant liabilities of $600,571, offset by interest income earned including those on marketable securities held in Trust Account of $16,166. Liquidity and Capital Resources On March 9, 2021, the Company consummated the Initial Public Offering of 25,376,598 units (the Units and, with respect to the shares of Class A common stock included in the Units sold, the Public Shares), which includes the partial exercise by the underwriters of their over-allotment options in the amount of 2,876,598 Units, at $10.00 per Unit, generating gross proceeds of $253,765,980. Simultaneously with the closing of the Initial Public Offering, the Company consummated the sale of 5,100,214 warrants (the Private Placement Warrants) at a price of $1.50 per Private Placement Warrant in a private placement to VPC Impact Acquisition Holdings Sponsor III, LLC (the Sponsor), generating gross proceeds of $7,650,321. Transaction costs amounted to $14,386,571, consisting of $5,075,320 of underwriting fees, $8,881,809 of deferred underwriting fees and $429,442 of other offering costs. For the period from January 14, 2021 through September 30, 2021, cash used in operating activities was $2,050,955. Net loss of $7,805,910 was affected by interest earned on marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $16,166, changes in fair value of warrant liability of $3,819,820, and transaction costs allocated to warrant liabilities of $600,571. Changes in operating assets and liabilities provided $1,350,730 of cash for operating activities. 22 Table of Contents As of September 30, 2021, we had marketable securities held in the Trust Account of $253,782,146 consisting of U.S. Treasury Bills with a maturity of 185 days or less. Interest income on the balance in the Trust Account may be used by us to pay taxes. Through September 30, 2021, we have not withdrawn any interest earned from the Trust Account. We intend to use substantially all of the funds held in the Trust Account, including any amounts representing interest earned on the Trust Account (less income taxes payable), to complete our Business Combination. To the extent that our capital stock or debt is used, in whole or in part, as consideration to complete our Business Combination, the remaining proceeds held in the Trust Account will be used as working capital to finance the operations of the target business or businesses, make other acquisitions and pursue our growth strategies. We intend to use the funds held outside the Trust Account primarily to identify and evaluate target businesses, perform business due diligence on prospective target businesses, travel to and from the offices, plants or similar locations of prospective target businesses or their representatives or owners, review corporate documents and material agreements of prospective target businesses, and structure, negotiate and complete a Business Combination. In order to fund working capital deficiencies or finance transaction costs in connection with a Business Combination, the Sponsor or an affiliate of our Sponsor, or certain of our officers and directors or their affiliates may, but are not obligated to, loan us funds as may be required. If we complete a Business Combination, we would repay such loaned amounts. In the event that a Business Combination does not close, we may use a portion of the working capital held outside the Trust Account to repay such loaned amounts but no proceeds from our Trust Account would be used for such repayment. Up to $1,500,000 of such loans may be convertible into Private Placement Warrants of the post Business Combination entity at a price of $1.50 per warrant at the option of the lender. Such warrants would be identical to the Private Placement Warrants. As of September 30, 2021, the Company had no borrowings under the Working Capital Loans. Based on the foregoing, management believes that the Company will have sufficient working capital and borrowing capacity from the sponsor or an affiliate of the Sponsor, or certain of the Companys officers and directors to meet its needs through the earlier of the consummation of a Business Combination or one year from this filing. Over this time period, the Company will be using these funds for paying existing accounts payable, identifying and evaluating prospective initial Business Combination candidates, performing due diligence on prospective target businesses, paying for travel expenditures, selecting the target business to merge with or acquire, and structuring, negotiating and consummating the Business Combination. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no obligations, assets or liabilities, which would be considered off-balance sheet arrangements as of September 30, 2021. We do not participate in transactions that create relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements. We have not entered into any off-balance sheet financing arrangements, established any special purpose entities, guaranteed any debt or commitments of other entities, or purchased any non-financial assets. Contractual Obligations We do not have any long-term debt, capital lease obligations, operating lease obligations or long-term liabilities, other than an agreement, commencing on March 4, 2021, to pay the Sponsor up to $10,000 per month for office space, utilities, secretarial and administrative support services. Upon completion of a Business Combination or its liquidation, the Company will cease paying these monthly fees. The underwriters are entitled to a deferred fee of $0.35 per Unit, or $8,881,809 in the aggregate. The deferred fee will become payable to the underwriters from the amounts held in the Trust Account solely in the event that the Company completes a Business Combination, subject to the terms of the underwriting agreement. Subscription agreements On June 7, 2021, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Company entered into subscription agreements (the Subscription Agreements) with certain investors (the PIPE Investors) pursuant to which, and on the terms and subject to the conditions of which, the PIPE Investors have agreed to purchase an aggregate of 21,000,000 shares of the Companys Class A Common Stock in a private placement for $10.00 per share (the Private Placement). The proceeds from the Private Placement will be partially used to fund the Repurchase and for general working capital purposes following the Closing. Each Subscription Agreement will terminate upon the earlier to occur of (a) the termination of the Merger Agreement in accordance with its terms, (b) the mutual written agreement of the parties to such Subscription Agreement, and (c) February 3, 2022, if the Closing has not occurred by such date. On August 17, 2021, Alameda Research agreed to pre-fund its obligation under the Subscription Agreement between the Company and Alameda Research (the Alameda Subscription Agreement) to subscribe for 1,500,000 shares of Class A Common Stock for $15,000,000 of the aggregate proceeds of the Private Placement. In connection therewith, Alameda Research received a promissory note, dated August 17, 2021, issued by Dave in the principal amount of $15,000,000 (the Promissory Note), and the Company and Alameda Research entered into an amendment to the Alameda Subscription Agreement, dated August 17, 2021 (the Subscription Agreement Amendment), to (i) correct a scriveners error in with respect to the name of Alameda Research reflected therein and (ii) provide for the satisfaction of Alameda Researchs obligation to pay the $15,000,000 purchase price under the Alameda Subscription Agreement by way of a full discharge of Daves obligations to pay the principal under the Promissory Note, which full discharge will automatically occur upon the Companys issuance to Alameda Research of the shares of Class A Common Stock at the closing of the Private Placement. As of the date hereof, all of the PIPE Investors have consented to the Subscription Agreement Amendment and the transactions contemplated thereby. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and income and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could materially differ from those estimates. We have identified the following critical accounting policies: Warrant Liabilities We do not use derivative instruments to hedge exposures to cash flow, market, or foreign currency risks. We evaluate all of our financial instruments, including issued stock purchase warrants, to determine if such instruments are derivatives or contain features that qualify as embedded derivatives, pursuant to ASC 480 and ASC 815 We account for warrants as either equity-classified or liability-classified instruments based on an assessment of the warrants specific terms and applicable authoritative guidance in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 480, Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity (ASC 480) and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815). The assessment considers whether the warrants are freestanding financial instruments pursuant to ASC 480, meet the definition of a liability pursuant to ASC 480, and whether the warrants meet all of the requirements for equity classification under ASC 815, including whether the warrants are indexed to our own common stock, among other conditions for equity classification. This assessment, which requires the use of professional judgment, is conducted at the time of warrant issuance and as of each subsequent quarterly period end date while the warrants are outstanding. For issued or modified warrants that meet all of the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded as a component of additional paid-in capital at the time of issuance. For issued or modified warrants that do not meet all the criteria for equity classification, the warrants are required to be recorded at their initial fair value on the date of issuance, and each balance sheet date thereafter. Changes in the estimated fair value of the warrants are recognized as a non-cash gain or loss on the statements of operations. 23 Table of Contents Class A Common Stock Subject to Possible Redemption We account for our Class A common stock subject to possible redemption in accordance with the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 480 Distinguishing Liabilities from Equity. Shares of Class A common stock subject to mandatory redemption is classified as a liability instrument and is measured at fair value. Conditionally redeemable common stock (including common stock that feature redemption rights that is either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within our control) is classified as temporary equity. At all other times, common stock is classified as stockholders equity. Our Class A common stock features certain redemption rights that are considered to be outside of our control and subject to occurrence of uncertain future events. Accordingly, shares of Class A common stock subject to possible redemption are presented as temporary equity, outside of the stockholders equity section of our balance sheet. Net Income (Loss) Per Common Share Net loss per common share is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted average number of common share outstanding during the period. We apply the two-class method in calculating earnings per share. Accretion associated with the redeemable shares of Class A common stock is excluded from earnings per share as the redemption value approximates fair value. Recent Accounting Standards Management does not believe that any recently issued, but not yet effective, accounting standards, if currently adopted, would have a material effect on our condensed consolidated financial statements. In August 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2020-06, Debt Debt with Conversion and Other Options (Subtopic 470-20) and Derivatives and Hedging Contracts in Entitys Own Equity (Subtopic 815-40) (ASU 2020-06) to simplify accounting for certain financial instruments. ASU 2020-06 eliminates the current models that require separation of beneficial conversion and cash conversion features from convertible instruments and simplifies the derivative scope exception guidance pertaining to equity classification of contracts in an entitys own equity. The new standard also introduces additional disclosures for convertible debt and freestanding instruments that are indexed to and settled in an entitys own equity. ASU 2020-06 amends the diluted earnings per share guidance, including the requirement to use the if-converted method for all convertible instruments. ASU 2020-06 is effective January 1, 2022 and should be applied on a full or modified retrospective basis, with early adoption permitted beginning on January 1, 2021. We are currently assessing the impact, if any, that ASU 2020-06 would have on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.