Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations. Competition We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and service offerings and face on-going product and price competition in all areas of our business from branded and generic competitors. We compete based on our ability to offer profitable and competitive solutions to our customers that provide the most current and desired product features, as well as on customer service, quality, and reliability. This is enabled by our direct relationships with customers, which allow us to recognize changing customer needs faster than many of our competitors. This connection with our customers allows us to best serve customer needs and is one of our competitive advantages. We are committed to balancing our mix of products and services to optimize profitability, liquidity, and growth. We believe this strategy will help us achieve higher margins, but may put pressure on our industry unit share position for personal computers and servers at certain times. Sales and Marketing We sell our products and services directly to customers through our online store at www.dell.com , dedicated sales representatives, telephone-based sales, and through a variety of indirect sales channels. Our customers include large 6 Table of Contents global and national corporate businesses, public institutions including government, education and healthcare organizations, and law enforcement agencies. Our customers also include small and medium-sized businesses, individual customers, and retailers. Within each geographic region, we have divided our sales resources among these various customer groups. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated net revenue during any of the last three fiscal years. Our sales and marketing efforts are organized around the evolving needs of our customers. Our direct business model provides direct communication with our customers, thereby allowing us to refine our products and marketing programs for specific customer groups. Customers may offer suggestions for current and future Dell products, services, and operations on an interactive portion of our Internet website called Dell IdeaStorm. This constant flow of communication allows us to rapidly gauge customer satisfaction and target new or existing products. For large business and institutional customers, we maintain a field sales force throughout the world. Dedicated account teams, which include field-based system engineers and consultants, form long-term relationships to provide our largest customers with a single source of assistance, develop specific tailored solutions for these customers, and provide us with customer feedback. For large, multinational customers, we offer several programs designed to provide single points of contact and accountability with global account specialists, special global pricing, and consistent global service and support programs. We also maintain specific sales and marketing programs targeted at federal, state, and local governmental agencies, as well as healthcare and educational customers. We market our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses and consumers primarily by advertising on television and through the Internet, advertising in a variety of print media, and mailing or emailing a broad range of direct marketing publications, such as promotional materials, catalogues, and customer newsletters. We also sell our products and services through indirect sales channels. In the U.S., we sell products indirectly through third-party solution providers, system integrators, and third-party resellers. We also offer select consumer products in retail stores in several countries in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, and Africa, which we refer to as EMEA, and Asia-Pacific Japan (APJ). Outside the U.S., we sell products indirectly through selected retailers to benefit from the retailers existing end-user customer relationships and valuable knowledge of traditional customs and logistics in the country and to mitigate credit and country risk as well as because sales in some countries may be too small to warrant a direct sales business unit. Our goal is to have strategic relationships with a number of major retailers in larger geographic regions. During Fiscal 2010, we continued to expand our global retail presence, and we now reach over 56,000 retail locations worldwide. Our retailers include Best Buy, Staples, Wal-Mart, DSGI, GOME, and Carrefour, among others. Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses At January 29, 2010, we held a worldwide portfolio of 2,577 patents and had an additional 2,418 patent applications pending. We also hold licenses to use numerous third-party patents. To replace expiring patents, we obtain new patents through our ongoing research and development activities. The inventions claimed in our patents and patent applications cover aspects of our current and possible future computer system products, manufacturing processes, and related technologies. Our product, business method, and manufacturing process patents may establish barriers to entry in many product lines. While we use our patented inventions and also license them to others, we are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. We have entered into a variety of intellectual property licensing and cross-licensing agreements. We have also entered into various software licensing agreements with other companies. We anticipate that our worldwide patent portfolio will be of value in negotiating intellectual property rights with others in the industry. We have obtained U.S. federal trademark registration for the DELL word mark and the Dell logo mark. We own registrations for 81 of our other marks in the U.S. At January 29, 2010, we had pending applications for registration of 24 other trademarks. We believe that establishment of the DELL word mark and logo mark in the U.S. is material to our operations. We have also applied for or obtained registration of the DELL word mark and several other marks in approximately 195 other countries. 7 Table of Contents From time to time, other companies and individuals assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies or marks that are important to the technology industry or our business. We evaluate each claim relating to our products and, if appropriate, seek a license to use the protected technology. The licensing agreements generally do not require the licensor to assist us in duplicating its patented technology, nor do these agreements protect us from trade secret, copyright, or other violations by us or our suppliers in developing or selling these products. Government Regulation and Sustainability Government Regulation Our business is subject to regulation by various federal and state governmental agencies. Such regulation includes the radio frequency emission regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission; the anti-trust regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the European Union; the consumer protection laws and financial services regulations of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various state governmental agencies; the export regulatory activities of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of Treasury; the import regulatory activities of U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the product safety regulatory activities of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission; the investor protection and capital markets regulatory activities of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and the environmental, employment and labor, and other regulatory activities of a variety of governmental authorities in each of the countries in which we conduct business. We were not assessed any material environmental fines, nor did we have any material environmental remediation or other environmental costs, during Fiscal 2010. Sustainability Environmental stewardship and social responsibility are both integral parts of how we manage our business, and complement our focus on business efficiencies and customer satisfaction. We use open dialogue with our stockholders, customers, vendors, and other stakeholders as part of our sustainability governance process where we take candid feedback and offer honest discussions on the challenges we face globally. Our environmental initiatives take many forms, including maximizing product energy efficiency, reducing and eliminating sensitive materials from our products, and providing responsible, convenient computer recycling options for customers. We are committed to becoming carbon neutral in our operations. We have set business requirements for our suppliers to disclose and reduce their greenhouse gas, or GHG, impacts. We were the first company in our industry to offer a free worldwide recycling program for our consumers. We also provide consumers with no-charge recycling of any brand of computer or printer with the purchase of a new Dell computer or printer. We have streamlined our transportation network to reduce transit times, minimize air freight and reduce emissions. Our packaging is designed to minimize box size and to increase recycled content of materials along with recyclability. When developing and designing products, we select materials guided by a precautionary approach in which we seek to eliminate environmentally sensitive substances (where reasonable alternatives exist) from our products and work towards developing reliable, environmentally sound, and commercially scalable solutions. We also have created a series of tools that help customers assess their current IT operations and uncover ways to reduce both the costs of those operations and their impact on the environment. Backlog We believe that backlog is not a meaningful indicator of net revenue that can be expected for any period. The backlog at any point in time may not translate into net revenue in any subsequent period, as unfilled orders can generally be canceled at any time by the customer. Our business model generally gives us flexibility to manage backlog at any point in time by expediting shipping or prioritizing customer orders toward products that have shorter lead times, thereby reducing backlog and increasing current period revenue. Although backlog at the end of Fiscal 2010 was higher than at the end of Fiscal 2009 and Fiscal 2008, the difference was not material when compared to our annual revenue during Fiscal 2010. 8 Table of Contents Trademarks and Service Marks Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are trademarks owned by us. We disclaim proprietary interest in the marks and names of others. EMC is a registered trademark of EMC Corporation. Available Information Our principal executive offices are located at One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682, and our telephone number at that address is 1-800-BUY-DELL. We maintain an Internet website at www.dell.com. All of our reports filed with the SEC (including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports) are accessible through the Investor Relations section of our website at www.dell.com/investor , free of charge, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the reports with the SEC. You may read and copy any materials that we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov . Information on our website is not incorporated by reference into this report and does not otherwise form a part of this report. Employees At the end of Fiscal 2010, we had approximately 96,000 total employees (consisting of 94,300 regular employees and 1,700 temporary employees), compared to approximately 78,900 total employees (consisting of 76,500 regular employees and 2,400 temporary employees) at the end of Fiscal 2009. Our acquisition of Perot Systems added 23,800 regular employees. Approximately 36,600 of the regular employees at the end of Fiscal 2010 were located in the U.S., and approximately 57,700 regular employees were located in other countries. Executive Officers of Dell The following table sets forth the name, age, and position of each of the persons who were serving as our executive officers as of March 5, 2010: Name Age Title Michael S. Dell 45 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Peter A. Altabef 50 President, Services Bradley R. Anderson 50 Senior Vice President, Enterprise Product Group Paul D. Bell 49 President, Public Jeffrey W. Clarke 47 Vice Chairman, Operations and Technology Andrew C. Esparza 51 Senior Vice President, Human Resources Stephen J. Felice 52 President, Consumer, Small and Medium Business Ronald G. Garriques 46 President, Communication Solutions Brian T. Gladden 45 Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Erin Nelson 40 Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer Stephen F. Schuckenbrock 49 President, Large Enterprise Lawrence P. Tu 55 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Our executive officers are elected annually by, and serve at the pleasure of, our Board of Directors. Set forth below is biographical information about each of our executive officers. 9 Table of Contents Michael S. Dell Mr. Dell currently serves as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. He has held the title of Chairman of the Board since he founded the Company in 1984. Mr. Dell also served as Chief Executive Officer of Dell from 1984 until July 2004 and resumed that role in January 2007. He serves on the Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum, the executive committee of the International Business Council, and is a member of the U.S. Business Council. He also sits on the Technology CEO Council and the governing board of the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, India. Peter A. Altabef Peter Altabef joined Dell, after Dells acquisition of Perot Systems in November 2009, as President of Services, Dells global IT services and business solutions unit. In this role, he is responsible for developing and delivering a best-in-class suite of intelligent, end-to-end IT services and business solutions for global corporations, government, health care, educational institutions and medium-sized businesses in more than 180 countries around the world. From September 2004 until November 2009, he was president and chief executive officer of Perot Systems. Before joining Perot Systems in 1993, Mr. Altabef was a partner in the law firm of Hughes & Luce, in Dallas, Texas. He previously practiced law in New York and served as a law clerk to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. He earned a J.D. degree from The University of Chicago Law School and a Bachelors degree in economics from Binghamton University. Mr. Altabef is a member of The Bretton Woods Committee and serves on the Americas International Advisory Council of the International Business Leaders Forum. Bradley R. Anderson Mr. Anderson joined us in July 2005 and has served as Senior Vice President, Enterprise Product Group since January 2009. In this role, he is responsible for worldwide engineering, design, development and marketing of Dells enterprise products, including servers, networking and storage systems. From July 2005 until January 2009, Mr. Anderson served as Senior Vice President, Business Product Group. Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Anderson was Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Industry Standard Servers business at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), where he was responsible for HPs server solutions. Previously, he was Vice President of Server, Storage, and Infrastructure for HP, where he led the team responsible for server, storage, peripheral, and infrastructure products. Before joining HP in 1996, Mr. Anderson held top management positions at Cray Research in executive staff, field marketing, sales, finance, and corporate marketing. Mr. Anderson earned a Bachelor of Science in Petroleum Engineering from Texas A&M University and a Master of Business Administration from Harvard University. He serves on the Texas A&M Look College of Engineering Advisory Council. Paul D. Bell Mr. Bell has been with us since 1996 and currently serves as President, Public, a position he has held since January 2009. In this role, he is responsible for leading the teams that help governments, education, healthcare and other public organizations make full use of information technology. From March 2007 until January 2009, Mr. Bell served as Senior Vice President and President, Americas. In this role, Mr. Bell was responsible for all sales and customer support operations across the Americas region other than our Consumer business. From February 2000 until March 2007, Mr. Bell served as Senior Vice President and President, Europe, Middle East, and Africa. Prior to this, Mr. Bell served as Senior Vice President, Home and Small Business. Prior to joining Dell in July 1996, Mr. Bell was a management consultant with Bain & Company for six years, including two years as a consultant on our account. Mr. Bell received Bachelors degrees in Fine Arts and Business Administration from Pennsylvania State University and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Yale School of Organization and Management. Jeffrey W. Clarke Mr. Clarke currently serves as Vice Chairman, Operations and Technology. In this role, in which he has served since January 2009, he is responsible for worldwide engineering, design and development of Dells business client products, including Dell OptiPlex tm Desktops, Latitude Notebooks and Precision Workstations, and production of all company products worldwide. From January 2003 until January 2009, Mr. Clarke served as Senior Vice President, Business Product Group. Mr. Clarke joined Dell in 1987 as a quality engineer and has served in a variety of engineering and management roles. In 1995, Mr. Clarke became the director of desktop development, and from November 2001 to January 2003 he served as Vice President and General Manager, Relationship Product Group. Mr. Clarke received a Bachelors degree in Electrical Engineering from the University of Texas at San Antonio. 10 Table of Contents Andrew C. Esparza Mr. Esparza joined Dell in 1997 as a director of Human Resources in the Product Group. He was named Senior Vice President, Human Resources in March 2007 and was named an executive officer in September 2007. In this role, he is responsible for driving the strategy and supporting initiatives to attract, motivate, develop, and retain world-class talent in support of our business goals and objectives. He also has responsibility for corporate security and corporate responsibility on a worldwide basis. He currently is an executive sponsor for aDellante, our internal networking group responsible for the development of Hispanic employees within the company. Prior to joining Dell, he held human resource positions with NCR Corporation from 1985 until 1997 and Bechtel Power Corporation from 1981 until 1985. Mr. Esparza earned a Bachelors degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Human Resource Management from San Diego State University. Stephen J. Felice Mr. Felice currently serves as President, Consumer, Small and Medium Business, a position he has held since November 2009. Mr. Felice leads the Dell organization that creates and delivers specific solutions and technology to more than 72 million small and medium-sized businesses globally and is responsible for Dells portfolio of consumer products, including desktops, notebooks, software and peripherals as well as product design and sales. From January 2009 until November 2009, Mr. Felice served as President, Small and Medium Business, and from March 2007 until January 2009, as Senior Vice President and President, Asia Pacific-Japan, after having served as Vice President, Asia Pacific-Japan since August 2005. Mr. Felice was responsible for our operations throughout the APJ region, including sales and customer service centers in Penang, Malaysia, and Xiamen, China. Mr. Felice joined us in February 1999 and has held various executive roles in our sales and consulting services organizations. From February 2002 until July 2005, Mr. Felice was Vice President, Corporate Business Group, Dell Americas. Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Felice served as Chief Executive Officer and President of DecisionOne Corp. Mr. Felice also served as Vice President, Planning and Development, with Bell Atlantic Customer Services, and he spent five years with Shell Oil in Houston. Mr. Felice holds a Bachelors degree in Business Administration from the University of Iowa and a Master of Business Administration degree from the University of Houston. Ronald G. Garriques Mr. Garriques currently serves as President, Communication Solutions. In this role, in which he has served since November 2009, he focuses on bringing to market connected computing products and services through new channels of distribution, including telecommunications, cable, satellite and others. Mr. Garriques joined Dell in February 2007 as President, Global Consumer Group. In this role he was responsible for Dells portfolio of consumer products, including desktops, notebooks, software and peripherals as well as product design and sales. Before joining Dell, Mr. Garriques served in various leadership roles at Motorola from February 2001 to February 2007, where he was most recently Executive Vice President and President, responsible for the Mobile Devices division. He was also Senior Vice President and General Manager of the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region for the Personal Communications Services division, and Senior Vice President and General Manager of Worldwide Products Line Management for the Personal Communications Services division. Prior to joining Motorola, Mr. Garriques held management positions at AT&T Network Systems, Lucent Technologies, and Philips Consumer Communications. Mr. Garriques holds a Masters degree in Business Administration from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, a Masters degree in Mechanical Engineering from Stanford University, and a Bachelors degree in Mechanical Engineering from Boston University. Brian T. Gladden Mr. Gladden serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO). In this role, in which he has served since June 2008, he is responsible for all aspects of Dells finance functions, including accounting, financial planning and analysis, tax, treasury, audit, information technology, and investor relations, and is also responsible for our global information systems and technology structure. Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Gladden was President and CEO of SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding BV from August 2007 through May 2008. Prior to joining SABIC Innovative Plastics Holding BV in August 2007, Mr. Gladden spent nearly 20 years with General Electric (GE) in a variety of financial and management leadership roles. During his career with the company, he served as Vice President and General Manager of GE Plastics resin business, CFO of GE Plastics and Vice President and CFO of GE Medical Systems Healthcare IT business. He was named a GE corporate officer in 2002 and had formerly served on GEs corporate audit staff for five years. Mr. Gladden 11 Table of Contents earned a Bachelor of Science degree in Business Administration and Finance from Millersville University in Millersville, Pennsylvania. Erin Nelso n Ms. Nelson currently serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer (CMO). In this role, she is responsible for customer relationship management, communications, brand strategy, core research and analytics, and overall marketing agency management. Before becoming CMO in January 2009, Ms. Nelson spent three years in Europe, most recently as Vice President of Marketing for Dells business in EMEA. Since joining Dell in 1999, she has held progressive leadership positions in U.S. consumer marketing, U.S. public sales, EMEA home and small-business marketing, as well as eBusiness. Prior to joining Dell, Ms. Nelson held positions in brand management at Procter & Gamble, corporate strategy at PepsiCo, and as a management consultant with A.T. Kearney. Ms. Nelson earned a Bachelors degree in Business Administration with a concentration in International Business and Marketing from the University of Texas at Austin. Stephen F. Schuckenbrock Mr. Schuckenbrock currently serves as President, Large Enterprise, leading the delivery of innovative and globally consistent Dell solutions and services to the worlds largest corporate IT users. Mr. Schuckenbrock joined us in January 2007 as Senior Vice President and President, Global Services. In September 2007, he assumed the additional role of Chief Information Officer, and served in those roles until January 2009, when he assumed his current position. In those roles, he was responsible for all aspects of our services business, with worldwide responsibility for Dell enterprise service offerings, and was also responsible for our global information systems and technology structure. Prior to joining us, Mr. Schuckenbrock served as Co-Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President of Global Sales and Services for Electronic Data Systems Corporation (EDS). Before joining EDS in 2003, he was Chief Operating Officer of The Feld Group, an information technology consulting organization. Mr. Schuckenbrock served as Global Chief Information Officer at PepsiCo from 1995 to 2000. Mr. Schuckenbrock earned a Bachelors degree in Business Administration from Elon University. Lawrence P. Tu Mr. Tu joined us as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary in July 2004, and is responsible for overseeing Dells global legal, governmental affairs, and ethics and compliance departments. Before joining Dell, Mr. Tu served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel at NBC Universal for three years. Prior to his position at NBC, he was a partner with the law firm of OMelveny & Myers LLP, where he focused on energy, technology, Internet, and media related transactions. He also served five years as managing partner of the firms Hong Kong office. Mr. Tus prior experience also includes serving as General Counsel Asia-Pacific for Goldman Sachs, attorney for the U.S. State Department, and law clerk for U.S. Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall. Mr. Tu holds Juris Doctor and Bachelor of Arts degrees from Harvard University, as well as a Masters degree from Oxford University, where he was a Rhodes Scholar. ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those we currently expect or desire. Weak global economic conditions and instability in financial markets may harm our business and result in reduced net revenue and profitability. We are a global company with customers in virtually every business and industry. Our performance depends significantly on global economic conditions. Commercial customers and consumers may postpone spending amid concerns over reduced asset values, fluctuating energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, unemployment, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, and sovereign nations. Weak global economic conditions could have a number of adverse effects on our business, including weaker customer demand, potential insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays, the inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products on favorable terms, and potential customer insolvencies, all of which could negatively impact our liquidity and ultimately decrease our net revenue and profitability. 12 Table of Contents Weak economic conditions and additional regulation could harm our financial services activities . Our financial services activities are negatively affected in the current adverse economic environment by loan delinquencies and defaults. Although the trend of increasing loan delinquencies and defaults has slowed, defaults impact our net credit losses and we may need to increase our reserves for customer receivables in the future. In addition, anticipated changes in financial services regulation could unfavorably impact the profitability and cash flows of our consumer financing activities. We face intense competition, which may adversely affect our industry unit share position, revenue, and profitability. We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software and service offerings, and face aggressive product and price competition from both branded and generic competitors. We compete based on our ability to profitably offer competitive solutions with the most current and desired product features, as well as on customer service, quality and reliability. We expect that competition will continue to be intense and that our competitors products may be less costly, provide better performance or include additional features when compared to our products. Our efforts to balance our mix of products and services to optimize profitability, liquidity, and growth may also put pressure on our industry unit share position in the short-term. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new and increased competition in different geographic regions. In addition, barriers to entry in our businesses generally are low and products can be distributed broadly and quickly at relatively low cost. If our cost cutting measures are not successful, we may become less competitive. A variety of factors could prevent us from achieving our goal of better aligning our product and service offerings and cost structure with customer needs in the current business environment. We are currently focused on reducing our operating expenses, reducing total costs in procurement, product design, transformation, and simplifying our structure. For example, we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost savings plans and higher than expected or unanticipated costs to implement the plans. As a result, we may not achieve our expected cost savings in the time anticipated, or at all. In such case, our results of operations and profitability may be negatively impacted, making us less competitive and potentially causing us to lose industry unit share. Our inability to effectively manage product and services transitions could reduce the demand for our products and the profitability of our operations. Continuing improvements in technology result in frequent new product and services introductions, short product life cycles, and improvements in product performance characteristics. In addition, we are increasingly sourcing new products and transitioning existing products through our contract manufacturers and manufacturing outsourcing relationships in order to generate cost efficiencies, deliver products faster and better serve our customers in certain segments and geographical areas. The success of product transitions depends on a number of factors, including the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet demand, and the risk that new or upgraded products have quality or other defects. These product transitions present execution challenges and risks. If we are unable to effectively manage a new product transition, our business and results of operations could be unfavorably affected. We may not successfully execute our growth strategy if we fail to effectively manage the growth of our distribution capabilities, and to add to the scope of our product and services offerings. Our growth strategy involves reaching more customers worldwide through new distribution channels, such as consumer retail, expanding our relationships with value-added resellers, and augmenting select areas of our business through targeted acquisitions. As we reach more customers worldwide through an increasing number of new distribution channels, such as consumer retail, and continue to expand our relationships with value-added resellers, inventory management becomes more challenging and successful demand forecasting becomes more difficult. Our goal continues to be to optimize the balance of liquidity, profitability, and growth with a focus on moving the weight of the product portfolio to higher margin products and recurring revenue streams. Our ability to grow sales of these higher margin products, services 13 Table of Contents and solutions depends on our ability to successfully transition our sales capabilities in accordance with our strategy and to add to the breadth of our higher margin offerings through selective acquisitions of other businesses. If we are unable to effectively manage the growth of our distribution capabilities and grow our product and services offerings, our business and results of operations could be unfavorably affected. If we fail to achieve favorable pricing from our vendors, our profitability could be adversely impacted. Our profitability is affected by our ability to achieve favorable pricing with our vendors and contract manufacturers, including through negotiations for vendor rebates, marketing funds, and other vendor funding received in the normal course of business. Because these supplier negotiations are continuous and reflect the ongoing competitive environment, the variability in timing and amount of incremental vendor discounts and rebates can affect our profitability. These vendor programs may change periodically, potentially resulting in adverse profitability trends. Our inability to establish a cost and product advantage, or determine alternative means to deliver value to our customers, may adversely affect our industry unit share position, revenue, and profitability. Our reliance on vendors for products and components, many of whom are located outside the U.S., could harm our business by adversely affecting product delivery, reliability and cost. We obtain many of our products and all of our components from third party vendors. In addition, we are continuing to expand our use of contract manufacturers and manufacturing outsourcers. While these relationships generate cost efficiencies, they reduce our direct control over production. Our manufacturing and supply chain efficiencies give us the ability to operate with reduced levels of component and finished goods inventories. Our increasing reliance on these vendors subjects us to a greater risk of shortages, and reduced control over delivery schedules of components and products, as well as a greater risk of increases in product and component costs. Because we maintain minimal levels of component and product inventories, a disruption in component or product availability could harm our financial performance and our ability to satisfy customer needs. In addition, defective parts and products from these vendors could reduce product reliability and harm our reputation. We could experience manufacturing interruptions, delays, or inefficiencies if we are unable to procure in a timely and reliable manner components and products from single-source or limited-source suppliers. We maintain several single-source or limited-source supplier relationships, either because multiple sources are not available or because the relationships are advantageous to us due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. If the supply of a critical single- or limited-source product or component is delayed or curtailed, we may not be able to ship the related product in desired quantities and in a timely manner. Even where multiple sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm our operating results. We may not successfully implement our acquisition strategy. We acquire companies as a part of our overall growth strategy. These acquisitions may involve significant new risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management attention away from our current business operations, insufficient new revenue to offset expenses, inadequate return of capital, integration challenges, new regulatory requirements, and issues not discovered in our due diligence process. As a result, such acquisitions may adversely affect our profitability or operations. In addition, if we make changes in our business strategy or if external conditions adversely affect our business operations, we may be forced to record an impairment charge for goodwill or intangibles, which would lead to decreased assets and reduced net operating performance. Our ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue faces many additional risks and uncertainties. Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 47% of our consolidated net revenue in Fiscal 2010. Our future growth rates and success are dependent on continued growth of our business outside the U.S., including in the key developing countries of Brazil, Russia, India, and China. Our international operations face many risks and uncertainties, including varied local economic and labor conditions, political 14 Table of Contents instability, and changes in the regulatory environment, trade protection measures, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign operations), copyright levies, and foreign currency exchange rates. Any of these factors could adversely affect our operations and profitability. Our profitability may be adversely affected by our product, customer, and geographic sales mix and by seasonal sales trends. Our profit margins vary among products, customers, and geographic markets. In addition, our business is subject to certain seasonal sales trends. For example, sales to government customers (particularly the U.S. federal government) are typically stronger in our third fiscal quarter, sales in EMEA are often weaker in our third fiscal quarter, and consumer sales are typically strongest during our fourth fiscal quarter. As a result of these factors, our overall profitability for any particular period may be adversely affected by the mix of products, customers, and geographic markets reflected in our sales for that period, as well as by seasonal trends. Our business is dependent on our ability to access the capital markets. We are increasingly dependent on access to debt and capital sources to provide financing for our customers and to obtain funds in the U.S. for general corporate purposes, including working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, funding customer receivables, and share repurchases. Additionally, we have customer financing relationships with companies whose business models rely on accessing the capital markets. The inability of these companies to access such markets could force us to self-fund transactions or forego customer financing opportunities, potentially harming our financial performance. The debt and capital markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption from time to time in the future, resulting in higher credit spreads in the capital markets and higher funding costs for us. The cost of accessing debt and capital markets has increased in recent periods as many lenders and institutional investors require higher rates of return. Lenders have also tightened lending standards, and reduced or ceased their lending to certain borrowers. Deterioration in our business performance, a credit rating downgrade, volatility in the securitization markets, changes in financial services regulations or adverse changes in the economy could lead to reductions in debt availability and could limit our ability to continue asset securitizations or other financings from debt or capital sources, reduce the amount of financing receivables that we originate, or negatively affect the costs or terms on which we may be able to obtain capital, any of which could unfavorably affect our net revenue, profitability, and cash flows. Loss of government contracts could harm our business. Contracts with the U.S. Government and foreign governments are subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and are subject to the right of the government to terminate for convenience or non-appropriation. In addition, if we violate legal or regulatory requirements, the applicable government could suspend or disbar us as a contractor, which would unfavorably affect our net revenue and profitability. The exercise by customers of certain rights under our services contracts, or our failure to perform as we anticipate at the time we enter services contracts, could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Many of our services contracts allow the customer to: terminate the contract if our performance does not meet specified service levels request a rate reduction tied to a benchmarkers opinion of market rates (or alternatively allow the customer to terminate the contract) reduce the customers use of our services and, as a result, reduce our fees terminate the contract early upon payment of an agreed fee. These customer actions may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. In addition, we estimate our costs to deliver the services at the outset of the contract. If we fail to estimate accurately, our actual costs may significantly exceed our estimates, even for a time and materials contract, and we may incur losses on the services contracts. 15 Table of Contents Our performance could be adversely affected by our failure to hedge effectively our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We utilize derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Some of these instruments and contracts may involve elements of market and credit risk in excess of the amounts recognized in our financial statements. If we are not successful in monitoring our foreign exchange exposures and conducting an effective hedging program, our foreign currency hedging activities may not offset the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on our future results of operations and financial position. We are subject to counterparty default risks. We enter into numerous financing arrangements, including foreign currency option contracts and forward contracts, with a wide array of bank counterparties. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these contracts will default, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the contract. In times of market distress, a counterparty may default rapidly and without notice to us, and we may be unable to take action to cover our exposure, either because we lack the contractual ability or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action. In the event of a counterparty default, we could incur significant losses, which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In the event that one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability eventually to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterpartys default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable legal regime governing the bankruptcy proceeding. In addition, our deposits at financial institutions are at risk. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could harm our business and result in substantial costs. We are involved in various claims, suits, investigations, and legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business and that are not yet resolved, including those described elsewhere in this Report. Additional legal claims or regulatory matters may arise in the future and could involve stockholder, consumer, antitrust, tax and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Regardless of the merit of the claims, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our business. Therefore, we could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely affect our operating results or cash flows in a particular period. For example, we could be exposed to enforcement or other actions with respect to the continuing SEC investigation into certain accounting and financial reporting matters. In addition, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions. Our business could suffer if we do not obtain licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms. If we or our suppliers are unable to obtain desirable technology licenses, we may be prevented from marketing products, could be forced to market products without desirable features, or could incur substantial costs to redesign products, defend legal actions, or pay damages. Although our suppliers might be contractually obligated to obtain such licenses and indemnify us against such expenses, those suppliers could be unable to meet their obligations. In addition, our operating costs could increase because of copyright levies or similar fees by rights holders and collection agencies in European and other countries. The expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other tax compliance matters, could result in an increase of our effective income tax rate in the future. Portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part during Fiscal 2011 through Fiscal 2019. Many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, or terminated if certain conditions are not met. If they are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, then our effective tax rate would increase in the 16 Table of Contents future. Our effective tax rate could also increase if our geographic sales mix changes. We are under audit in various tax jurisdictions. An unfavorable outcome in certain of these matters could result in a substantial increase to our tax expense. In addition, changes in tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign operations) could adversely affect our operations and profitability. We face risks relating to any inability by us to maintain strong internal controls. If management is not successful in maintaining a strong internal control environment, we could have weaknesses in our control environment, causing investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. This could lead to a decline in our stock price, limit our ability to access the capital markets in the future, and require us to incur additional costs to improve our internal control systems and procedures. Current environmental and safety laws, or laws enacted in the future, may harm our business. Our operations are subject to environmental and safety regulation in all of the areas in which we conduct business. Our product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to the materials composition, energy efficiency and collection, recycling, treatment, transportation and disposal of our electronics products, including restrictions on mercury, lead, cadmium, lithium metal, lithium ion and other substances. If we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations regarding the transportation, use and sale of such regulated substances, we could be subject to liability. The costs and timing of costs under environmental and safety laws are difficult to predict, but could have an unfavorable impact on our business. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues could harm our business. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues, whether in the U.S. or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to us, our suppliers or customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm our business. These events could cause a decrease in demand for our products, could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver products or for our suppliers to deliver components, and could create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Infrastructure disruptions or breaches of data security could harm our business. We depend on our information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. If a disruption, such as a computer virus, natural disaster, failure of a manufacturing or telecommunications system, lost connectivity, or intentional tampering or data-breach by a third party impairs our infrastructure, we may be unable to receive or process orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner, or otherwise conduct our business as usual. A disruption could cause us to lose customers and revenue, particularly during a period of disproportionately heavy demand, and could result in the unintentional disclosure of company or customer information and could damage our reputation. We also could incur significant expense in remediating these problems and in addressing related data security and privacy concerns. Our success depends on our ability to attract, retain, and motivate our key employees. We rely on key personnel to support anticipated continued rapid international growth and increasingly complex product and service offerings. We may not be able to attract, retain, and motivate the key professional, technical, marketing, and staff resources we need. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 2 PROPERTIES At January 29, 2010, we owned or leased a total of approximately 19.7 million square feet of office, manufacturing, and warehouse space worldwide, approximately 9.4 million square feet of which is located in the U.S. We owned approximately 57% of this space and leased the remaining 43%. Included in these amounts are approximately 1.8 million square feet that are either vacant or sublet. Our principal executive offices, including global headquarters, are located at One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas. Our business centers, which include facilities that contain operations for sales, technical support, administrative, and support functions, occupy 10.3 million square feet of space, of which we own 36%. We own 4 million square feet of manufacturing space. Our design centers are housed in 1.5 million square feet of space, of which we own 49%. Our acquisition of Perot Systems Corporation during Fiscal 2010 added over 3.0 million square feet of office and data center space worldwide, which is included above. During Fiscal 2010, we closed a manufacturing plant in Limerick, Ireland and a business center in Twin Falls, Idaho, and we sold our remanufacturing facility in Lebanon, Tennessee and business center in Pasay City, Philippines. At the end of Fiscal 2010, a business center in Coimbatore, India was under construction. We plan to close our Winston-Salem, North Carolina manufacturing facility in Fiscal 2011 and have announced the sale of our Lodz, Poland manufacturing facility. We may continue to sell, close, and consolidate additional facilities depending on a number of factors, including end-user demand, capabilities, and progress in our continuous evaluation of our overall cost structure. We believe that our existing properties are suitable and adequate for our current needs and that we can readily meet our requirements for additional space at competitive rates by extending expiring leases or by finding alternative space. As discussed in Part I Item 1 Business, we have four operating segments identified as Large Enterprise, Public, SMB and Consumer. Because of the interrelation of the products and services offered in each of these segments, we do not designate our properties to each segment. All four segments use substantially all of the properties at least in part, and we retain the flexibility to make future use of each of the properties available to each of the segments. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required by Item 3 is set forth under the captions Legal Matters and Copyright Levies in Note 9 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II