ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SPECIAL NOTE: All percentage amounts and ratios were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this managements discussion and analysis to we, us, our and Dell mean Dell Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. This managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in that report. OVERVIEW Our Company We are a leading integrated technology solutions provider in the information technology (IT) industry. We built our reputation through listening to customers and developing solutions that meet customer needs. We are focused on providing long-term value creation through the delivery of customized solutions that make technology more efficient, more accessible, and easy to use. Customer needs are increasingly being defined by how customers use technology rather than where they use it, which is why our businesses are globally organized. Our four global business segments are Large Enterprise, Public, Small and Medium Business (SMB), and Consumer. We also refer to our Large Enterprise, Public, and SMB segments as Commercial. Our globally organized business units reflect the impact of globalization on our customer base. Our enterprise solutions include servers, storage, as well as related services, software and peripherals. Client includes mobility, desktop products, and also related services, software and peripherals. Our services include a broad range of configurable IT and business services, including infrastructure technology, consulting and applications, and business process services. We are focused on improving our core business, shifting our portfolio to higher margin and recurring revenue streams over time, and maintaining a balance of liquidity, profitability, and growth. We consistently focus on generating strong cash flow returns, allowing us to expand our capabilities and acquire new ones. We seek to grow revenue over the long term while improving operating income and cash flow growth. We have three primary strategic initiatives: Offer IT solutions to our customers that are open, capable, and affordable to provide them with flexibility, less complexity, and better value from their IT investments. Optimize our supply chain to simplify our product offerings and align our supply chain initiatives with what customers value most. Enhance our connections to our customers and status as a technology e-commerce online leader through our online initiative. We have manufacturing locations and relationships with contract manufacturers around the world. We maintain a highly efficient global supply chain, which allows low inventory levels and the efficient use of and return on capital. This combined structure allows us to optimize our global supply chain to best serve our global customer base. To maintain our competitiveness, we continuously strive to improve our products, services, technology, manufacturing, and logistics. We are continuing to invest in initiatives that will align our new and existing products and services around customers needs in order to drive long-term sustainable growth, profitability, and liquidity. Our business model includes selling directly to our customers as well as through distribution channels, such as retail, system integrators, value-added resellers, and distributors, which allows us to reach even more end-users around the world. We are investing resources and are well positioned in emerging countries with an emphasis on Brazil, Russia, India, and China (BRIC), where, given stable economic conditions, we expect significant growth to occur over the next several years. We are also creating solutions to meet the preferences and requirements of our diversified global customer base. We will focus our investments to grow our business organically as well as inorganically through alliances and strategic acquisitions. By successfully executing our strategy and driving greater efficiency and productivity in how we operate, we believe we can help customers grow and thrive. 28 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes the results of our operations for the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009: Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 May 1, 2009 % of % % of Dollars Revenue Change Dollars Revenue (in millions, except per share amounts and percentages) Net revenue Products $ 12,086 81.3% 18% $ 10,232 82.9% Services, including software related 2,788 18.7% 32% 2,110 17.1% Total net revenue $ 14,874 100.0% 21% $ 12,342 100.0% Gross margin Products $ 1,701 14.1% 18% $ 1,446 14.1% Services, including software related 815 29.2% 13% 722 34.2% Total gross margin $ 2,516 16.9% 16% $ 2,168 17.6% Operating expenses $ 1,997 13.4% 14% $ 1,754 14.2% Operating income $ 519 3.5% 25% $ 414 3.4% Net income $ 341 2.3% 18% $ 290 2.3% Earnings per share diluted $ 0.17 N/A 13% $ 0.15 N/A In the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, our net revenue increased 21% year-over-year with increases across all our operating segments. Our Commercial segments, which generated approximately 78% of our revenue during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, led the increase with 22% in revenue growth. We continue to see indications of strengthening demand across all segments as the global economy continues to recover. We will continue to focus our efforts on providing IT solutions to our customers in our solutions areas which includes servers and networking, storage, and services. The revenue generated from these categories, including the contributions from Perot Systems Corporation (Perot Systems), grew a combined 38% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 over the same period in the prior year. We believe these solutions are customized to the needs of users, easy to use, and affordable. We will also continue to improve our client business by simplifying our product offerings, developing next generation capabilities, and enhancing the online buying experience for our customers. Our cost reduction activities over the past several quarters are improving our profitability and operating leverage as revenue growth returns. We expect that the benefits of our strategy will carry throughout Fiscal 2011. Our recent acquisition of Kace Networks, Inc. (KACE) and integration of Perot Systems expands our portfolio of enterprise solutions offerings. The comparability of our results of operations in the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 compared with the same period in Fiscal 2010 is impacted by these acquisitions, primarily Perot Systems. See our Services discussion under Revenue by Product and Services Categories below for a comparison of Dells first quarter Fiscal 2011 services revenue to the prior years results of Dell services and Perot Systems. Revenue Product Revenue Product revenue increased year-over-year by 18% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Our product revenue performance is primarily attributable to an increase in unit shipments of 20% due to improved customer demand. Services Revenue, including software related Services revenue increased year-over-year by 32% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Our services revenue performance is attributable to a 53% year-over-year increase in services and an increase of 3% in software related revenue during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. The increase in services revenue is primarily attributable to our integration of Perot Systems. 29 Table of Contents Overall, our average selling price (total revenue per unit sold) during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 remained relatively flat year-over-year. We experienced pricing pressure on our client offerings, offset by the addition of Perot Systems, which generates services revenue that is not always accompanied with hardware sales. Over time, as we continue to migrate to a higher mix of non-attached services, average selling price will become less meaningful. Revenue for the U.S. during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 increased 21% over the same period last year. Revenue outside the U.S. represented approximately 48% of net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, and grew 20% year-over-year, led by a 60% increase in BRIC revenue. Revenue from BRIC has been increasing sequentially since the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2009 and now represents 12% of our total revenue. We are continuing to expand into these and other emerging countries that represent the vast majority of the worlds population, tailor solutions to meet specific regional needs, and enhance relationships to provide customer choice and flexibility. We manage our business on a U.S. Dollar basis and utilize a comprehensive hedging strategy intended to mitigate the impact of foreign currency volatility over time. As a result of our hedging programs, the impact of currency movements was not material to our total revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Gross Margin The following table presents information regarding our gross margin during the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009: Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 May 1, 2009 % of % % of Dollars Revenue Change Dollars Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Gross margin Products $ 1,701 14.1% 18% $ 1,446 14.1% Services, including software related 815 29.2% 13% 722 34.2% Total gross margin $ 2,516 16.9% 16% $ 2,168 17.6% Products During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, products gross margin increased in absolute dollars year-over-year, while gross margin percentage remained flat. The increase in gross margin dollars is attributable to increased demand. Services, including software related During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, our services gross margin increased in absolute dollars compared to the prior year, though our gross margin percentage decreased by five percentage points to 29.2%. The decrease in gross margin percentage for services, including software related, is primarily due to the higher mix of stand-alone services offerings by Perot Systems. Our services, including software related gross margin rate is driven by our extended warranty sales, offset by lower margin categories such as software, consulting, and managed services. Our extended warranty services are more profitable because we sell extended warranty offerings directly to customers instead of selling through a distribution channel. We have a service support structure that allows us to favorably manage our fixed costs. We continue to experience industry-wide global pricing pressures, increased competition, compressed product life cycles, and increases in the cost of raw materials and outside manufacturing services. We expect to see upward pressure on certain component costs for the remainder of Fiscal 2011. In response, we will adjust our pricing strategy and continue our shift towards a variable cost manufacturing model with the goal of optimizing growth and profitability. Approximately 53% of our production volume is now processed through contract manufacturers. Due to our continued migration towards a more variable cost manufacturing model, we continue to incur certain severance and facility action costs. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, the cost of these actions was $57 million, of which approximately $29 million affected gross margin. Comparatively, for the first quarter Fiscal 2010, the cost of these actions was $185 million, of which approximately $65 million affected gross margin. While we believe that we have completed a significant portion of our manufacturing transformation, we expect to implement additional cost reduction measures depending on a number of factors, including end-user demand, capabilities, and our 30 Table of Contents continued simplification of our supply and logistics chain. Additional cost reduction measures may include selected headcount reductions, as well as other cost reduction programs. See Note 11 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information on severance and facility action costs. As we continue to evolve our inventory and manufacturing business model to drive cost efficiencies, we continuously negotiate with our suppliers in a variety of areas, including availability of supply, quality, and cost. These real-time continuous supplier negotiations support our business structure, which is able to respond quickly to changing market conditions due to our customer-facing model. Such negotiations are focused on achieving the lowest net cost of our various components, independent of the pricing strategies used by our supplier base. Because of the fluid nature of these ongoing negotiations, the timing and amount of supplier discounts and rebates will vary from time to time. We monitor our suppliers net cost, including vendor funding programs, and work to mitigate any disruptions or price disadvantages caused by changes in our supplier programs, which may include adjusting our selling prices based on varying net cost levels. In addition, we have pursued legal action against certain vendors and are currently involved in negotiations with other vendors regarding their pricing practices. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we negotiated a settlement with one vendor and expect to have additional settlements in future quarters. The settlement during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 had a minimal impact on our gross margin. These discounts, rebates, and settlements are allocated to the segments based on a variety of factors, including strategic initiatives to drive certain programs. We will continue to invest in initiatives that align our new and existing products and services with customers needs, particularly for enterprise products and solutions. As we shift our focus more to enterprise solutions and services, we believe the improved mix of higher margin sales will positively impact our gross margin over time. Operating Expenses Our cost reduction activities over the past several quarters are improving operating leverage as revenue growth is returning. Our operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue declined 80 basis points year-over-year during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. The following table summarizes our operating expenses for the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009: Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 May 1, 2009 % of % % of Dollars Revenue Change Dollars Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Operating expenses: Selling, general, and administrative $ 1,830 12.3% 13% $ 1,613 13.1% Research, development, and engineering 167 1.1% 18% 141 1.1% Operating expenses $ 1,997 13.4% 14% $ 1,754 14.2% Selling, General, and Administrative During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased year-over-year, while SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased. The increase in SG&A expenses is primarily due to increases in compensation-related expenses of approximately $108 million due to an increase in headcount resulting from our acquisitions. In addition, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Dell accrued $100 million for a potential settlement of the SEC investigation and $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. See Note 12 to Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for more information on legal matters. The decrease in SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue is largely due to improved general spending controls resulting in better operating leverage. SG&A expenses related to headcount and infrastructure reductions through our on-going cost optimization efforts were $25 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 compared to $120 million for the same period in the prior year. SG&A expenses for Fiscal 2011 also included approximately $19 million of costs related to our acquisitions, primarily integration costs related to Perot Systems. 31 Table of Contents Research, Development, and Engineering During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, research, development and engineering (RD&E) expenses remained approximately 1% of revenue, consistent with the prior year. We manage our research, development, and engineering spending by targeting those innovations and products that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by relying upon the capabilities of our strategic relationships. We will continue to invest in RD&E activities to support our growth and to provide for new, competitive products. Operating and Net Income Operating Income Operating income increased $105 million or 25% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 primarily due to an increase in gross margin dollars of 16%. A 14% year-over-year increase in operating expenses during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 negatively impacted operating income, while operating expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased slightly during the same period. Net Income Net income increased year-over-year by 18% to $341 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Net income was impacted by increases in operating income and a lower effective tax rate from 29.6% to 24.4%, and offset by higher interest expenses. See Income and Other Taxes and Interest and Other, net sections below for discussions of our effective tax rates and interest and other, net. Segment Discussion Our four global business segments are Large Enterprise, Public, Small and Medium Business, and Consumer. Severance and facility action expenses, broad based long-term incentive expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets costs, acquisition-related expenses, and accruals for a potential settlement of the SEC investigation as well as a securities litigation class action lawsuit that were accrued during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, are not allocated to the reporting segments as management does not believe that these items are reflective of the underlying operating performance of the reporting segments. These costs totaled $392 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 and $300 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. See Note 16 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information and reconciliation of segment revenue and operating income to consolidated revenue and operating income. The following table summarizes our revenue and operating income by reportable global segments: Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 May 1, 2009 % of % % of Dollars Revenue (a) Change Dollars Revenue (a) (in millions, except percentages) Large Enterprise Net revenue $ 4,246 28% 25% $ 3,400 27% Operating income 283 7% 47% 192 6% Public Net revenue $ 3,856 26% 22% $ 3,171 26% Operating income 298 8% 2% 293 9% Small and Medium Business Net revenue $ 3,524 24% 19% $ 2,967 24% Operating income 313 9% 36% 230 8% Consumer Net revenue $ 3,248 22% 16% $ 2,804 23% Operating income 17 1% NM (1 ) 0% (a) Operating income percentage of revenue is stated in relation to the respective segment. 32 Table of Contents Large Enterprise The increase in Large Enterprises revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 is mainly attributed to improved demand. Many of our customers, who delayed or canceled IT projects as a result of the economic slowdown, are beginning to resume IT spending. Unit shipments increased 28% and average selling prices decreased slightly by 3%. The decrease in average selling prices was driven by pricing pressures in mobility and desktop products. Large Enterprise experienced year-over-year increases in revenue across all product lines, except storage, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Revenue from servers led the increase in revenue for Large Enterprise with a 61% year-over-year increase for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Services also had a significant increase in revenue of 44% year-over-year largely due to the integration of Perot Systems. Demand for our client products has increased, with desktops PCs and mobility increasing 22% and 14% respectively. Due to improved global economic conditions, revenue increased year-over-year across all regions, with the Americas and the Asia-Pacific regions leading the increases. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, operating income percentage increased 100 basis points year-over-year to 6.7% mostly driven by tighter spending controls that resulted in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease. Public During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Public experienced a year-over-year increase in revenue, which is primarily attributable to a significant increase in services revenue as a result of our integration of Perot Systems. Publics revenue increased across all other product categories, led by services revenue, with a 122% increase over the same period in the prior year. Excluding the impact of Perot Systems, demand was relatively flat, as demand from our U.S. federal government and Europe based customers was muted. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, operating income percentage decreased 150 basis points from the same period last year to 7.7%, while operating income dollars remained relatively flat with a 2% increase. Operating income percentage was negatively impacted by a year-over-year decrease in gross margin percentage as our services portfolio mix shifted to lower margin categories. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue did not change for the first quarter Fiscal 2011 in comparison to the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. Small and Medium Business During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, SMB experienced a year-over-year increase in revenue due to improved demand. SMB unit shipments increased 29%, while average selling prices decreased 8%. SMB experienced double digit percentage increases across all product lines, led by 27% and 23% increases in servers and networking, and desktop PCs, respectively. The improved demand environment is a major contributor to the increase in revenue for SMB. Operating income percentage increased 120 basis points year-over-year to 8.9% and operating income dollars increased 36% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, largely due to tighter spending controls that resulted in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue to decrease. Consumer The increase in Consumers revenue growth during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 is largely due to improved demand. We expanded our global retail presence over the prior year and now reach approximately 60,000 retail locations worldwide, compared to 30,000 at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. Our global retail expansion has expanded our customer base. During the first quarter of 2011, units sold increased 20%, while average selling prices decreased 4%. The decline in average selling prices is mainly due to growth in retail as well as a shift in mix to lower priced products. Mobility had the most significant increase in revenue with a 26% increase over the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. The continued shift in consumer preference from desktops to notebooks has contributed to our mobility unit growth. The reduction in mobility average selling prices is mainly attributable to our expansion into retail coupled with a demand shift from higher to lower priced notebooks. At a country level, our targeted BRIC revenue grew 95% year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Consumers operating income percentage increased approximately 50 basis points year-over-year to 0.5%. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2010, even though operating expenses remained flat year-over-year. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we combined Consumer and SMB under a single leadership team to reduce overall costs, though we are continuing to manage and report the two segments separately. As we work to improve 33 Table of Contents profitability, we continue to monetize aspects of the consumer business model with arrangements with vendors and suppliers, such as revenue sharing arrangements, which we believe will continue to contribute to and improve Consumers operating income over time. We expect the operating income percentage for Consumer to be in the 1% - 2% range, as we balance profitability with growth. Revenue by Product and Services Categories We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of products that in many cases are customized to individual customer requirements. Our products and services are organized between enterprise solutions and client categories. Enterprise solutions include servers, storage, and related services, software and peripherals. Client includes mobility, desktop products, and also related services, software and peripherals. The following table summarizes our net revenue by product and service categories for the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009: Three Months Ended April 30, 2010 May 1, 2009 % of % % of Dollars Revenue Change Dollars Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Net revenue: Enterprise Solutions: Servers and networking $ 1,785 12% 39% $ 1,286 10% Storage 554 4% 4% 534 4% Services 1,891 13% 53% 1,238 10% Software and peripherals 2,496 17% 11% 2,246 18% Client: Mobility 4,563 30% 18% 3,875 32% Desktop PCs 3,585 24% 13% 3,163 26% Net revenue $ 14,874 100% 21% $ 12,342 100% Enterprise Solutions Servers and Networking The increase in our server and networking revenue during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 was due to demand improvements across all Commercial segments and regions. Unit shipments increased 30% year-over-year, and average selling prices increased 7% year-over-year, driven by improved product mix toward our new product lines. Our cloud computing servers contributed approximately 30% of the year-over-year dollar increase in server revenue. We are continuing to introduce new products such as our cloud optimized PowerEdge-C servers, and we were the first to market with Nehalem EX servers to help our customers realize better overall system performance and improve energy efficiency. Storage During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, Public and SMB both had year-over-year increases in storage revenue, while Large Enterprise experienced a slight decrease. Dell EqualLogic tm continues to perform strongly, with year-over-year revenue growth of 78%. We are shifting towards more Dell-branded and co-branded storage offerings, which generally can be sold with service solutions and provide increased margin opportunity. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we introduced new open and easy-to-manage storage products such as the Dell DX Object Storage Solution designed for enterprise content management and data archiving, the Dell | EMC NS Series addressing the unified storage market, and the Dell | EMC DD Series (Data Domain) backup-to-disk de-duplication solution. Services Services offerings include infrastructure technology, consulting and applications, and business process services. Services revenue increased by $653 million year-over-year during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, with revenue from Perot Systems contributing a large proportion of the increase. Perot Systems reported revenue for the 34 Table of Contents three months ended March 31, 2009, was $621 million. Combining the results of Perot Systems revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2009, with Dell Services revenue for the three months ended May 1, 2009, does not take into consideration intercompany charges nor anticipated synergies or other effects of the integration of Perot Systems. Perot Systems March 31, 2009, results are presented for informational purposes only and are not indicative of the results that actually would have occurred if the acquisition was completed at the beginning of Fiscal 2010, nor are they indicative of future results. The integration of Perot Systems primarily impacts our Public and Large Enterprise segments. We continue to view services as a strategic growth opportunity and will continue to invest in our offerings and resources focused on increasing our solutions sales. The dynamics of our services business will continue to change as we integrate Perot Systems. With Perot Systems, we have extended our services business further into infrastructure business process outsourcing, consulting, and application development as well as our overall customer base. We also anticipate expanding our existing managed and modular services businesses. Our deferred service revenue balance increased 8% year-over-year to $6.1 billion at April 30, 2010, primarily due to an increase in up-sell service offerings. Software and Peripherals Revenue from sales of software and peripherals (S&P) is derived from sales of Dell-branded printers, monitors (not sold with systems), projectors, keyboards, mice, docking stations, and a multitude of third-party peripherals including LCD televisions, cameras, stand-alone software sales and related support services, and other products. The increase in S&P revenue was driven by overall customer unit shipment increases due to improvements in demand in displays, imaging products, and electronics, which experienced a combined year-over-year revenue increase of 15% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. All segments experienced year-over-year revenue increases during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Software revenue from our S&P line of business, which includes software license fees and related post-contract customer support, is included in services revenue, including software related on the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Software and related support services revenue represents 32% and 41% of services revenue, including software related during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, and Fiscal 2010, respectively. Client Mobility Revenue from mobility products (which include notebook computers, mobile workstations, and smartphones) increased during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 due to demand improvements, offset in part by an industry mix shift to lower priced mobility product offerings. Mobility units increased 27% year-over-year. Overall, Consumer mobility revenue increased 26% year-over-year and Commercial increased 12%. We believe the on-going demand trend towards mobility products will continue, and we plan to address this demand by expanding our product platforms to cover broader feature sets and price bands, like our new Vostro 3000 series laptop computers, the Dell Precision M4500 mobile workstations, and our new additions to our Dell Latitude E-family of laptops. Desktop PCs During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, revenue from desktop PCs (which include desktop computer systems and workstations) increased as unit demand for desktop PCs increased by 12%. The average selling price for our desktop computers has remained relatively flat year-over-year. The increase in demand was driven by our Large Enterprise and SMB customers, with 27% and 20% increases year-over-year, respectively. In the consumer marketplace, we are continuing to see rising end-user demand for mobility products, which moderates the demand for desktop PCs. The unit demand for desktop PCs declined 2% while mobility units increased 29% year-over-year for our Consumer customers. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we introduced new desktop computers with AMD Vision technology, as well as our new Dell OptiPlex 980 commercial desktop. 35 Table of Contents Interest and Other, Net The following table provides a detailed presentation of interest and other, net for the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009: Three Months Ended April 30, May 1, 2010 2009 (in millions) Interest and other, net: Investment income, primarily interest $ 8 $ 21 Gains on investments, net - 1 Interest expense (47 ) (29 ) Foreign exchange (30 ) - Other 1 5 Interest and other, net $ (68 ) $ (2 ) We continued to maintain a portfolio of instruments with shorter maturities, which typically carry lower market yields. Market yields on short-term instruments declined year-over-year resulting in lower investment income. Increased debt levels to $4.7 billion as of April 30, 2010, compared to $2.5 billion as of May 1, 2009, resulted in increased interest expense. The year-over-year increase in foreign exchange for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, as compared to the same period in the prior year, is primarily due to revaluation of certain unhedged foreign currency balances resulting from recent currency volatility, particularly the Euro, as it weakened relative to the U.S. dollar. Income and Other Taxes Our effective income tax rate was 24.4% and 29.6% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010, respectively. The decrease in our effective income tax rate for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 is primarily due to the favorable effective settlement of a tax audit in a foreign jurisdiction. For the Fiscal 2011 year, we estimate our effective annual tax rate, including the effect of this favorable settlement to be approximately 27%. The difference between the estimated effective income tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% principally results from our geographical distribution of taxable income and differences between the book and tax treatment of certain items. The income tax rate for future quarters of Fiscal 2011 will be impacted by the actual mix of jurisdictions in which income is generated. We take certain non-income tax positions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and have received certain non-income tax assessments from some of these jurisdictions. We are also involved in related non-income tax litigation matters in various jurisdictions. These jurisdictions include Brazil, where we are in litigation with the government over the proper application of transactional taxes to warranties and software related to the sale of computers, as well as over the appropriate use of state statutory incentives to reduce the transactional taxes. Tax litigation in Brazil has historically taken multiple years to resolve. While we believe we will ultimately prevail in the Brazilian courts, we have also negotiated certain tax incentives with the state that can be used to offset potential tax liabilities should the courts rule against us. The incentives are based upon maintaining a certain number of jobs within the state. In the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, pursuant to Brazilian law, we pledged our manufacturing facility in Hortolandia, Brazil to the government. The pledge was made as security for payment of an assessment for an adverse preliminary ruling on one of three cases pending with the government of Brazil. This pledge allows us to defend against the assessment and continue business with the Brazilian government while the appeal is pending. The manufacturing facility has an appraised value of approximately $60 million. We continue to believe our positions are supportable, a liability is not probable, that we will ultimately prevail, and that a risk of disruption to our Brazilian manufacturing operations is remote. In the normal course of business, our positions and conclusions related to our non-income taxes could be challenged and assessments may be made. To the extent new information is obtained and our views on our positions, probable outcomes of assessments, or litigation change, changes in estimates to our accrued liabilities would be recorded in the period in which the determination is made. 36 Table of Contents CONTINGENCIES Our future operating results may be adversely affected by the terms and effects of unfavorable resolutions of various pending claims, suits, legal proceedings and investigations described in Note 12 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, including the previously reported SEC investigation into certain financial reporting and disclosure matters. Dell continues to cooperate with the SEC investigation and to engage in discussions with the SEC staff regarding a potential settlement of the matter which would include the imposition of monetary penalties and other relief within the SECs authority. These discussions have progressed and, as a result, Dell recorded a liability for potential settlement of $100 million as of April 30, 2010. While we have determined that a liability should be recorded, our discussions with the SEC staff are ongoing, and no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome of this matter, including when any settlement might occur, or the terms or conditions of any settlement, or the potential impact of any resolution of this matter on our business. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE We sell products and services directly to customers and through a variety of sales channels, including a retail distribution network. At April 30, 2010, our gross accounts receivable balance was $6.0 billion, a slight increase of 0.5% from our balance at January 29, 2010. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to cover receivables that may be deemed uncollectible. The allowance for losses is based on specific identifiable customer accounts that are deemed at risk and general historical bad debt experience. As of April 30, 2010, and January 29, 2010, the allowance for doubtful accounts was $103 million and $115 million, respectively. Based on our assessment, we believe that we are adequately reserved for expected credit losses. We monitor the aging of our accounts receivable and continue to take actions to reduce our exposure to credit losses. FINANCING RECEIVABLES At April 30, 2010, and January 29, 2010, our net financing receivables balances were $3.7 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. The increase was primarily the result of the consolidation of two previously nonconsolidated SPEs as discussed below. We expect some growth in financing receivables to continue throughout Fiscal 2011. To manage the growth in financing receivables, we will continue to balance the use of our own working capital and other sources of liquidity, including securitization programs. Starting in the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, CIT, formerly a joint venture partner of DFS, is no longer funding DFS financing receivables. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we continued to transfer certain customer financing receivables to SPEs in securitization transactions. The purpose of the SPEs is to facilitate the funding of customer receivables through financing arrangements with multi-seller conduits that issue asset-backed debt securities in the capital markets. During the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009, we transferred $496 million and $233 million, respectively, to these SPEs. Our risk of loss related to these securitized receivables is limited to the amount of our over-collateralization in the transferred pool of receivables. We have a securitization program to fund revolving loans through a consolidated SPE, which we account for as a secured borrowing. Additionally, as of January 29, 2010, the two SPEs that funded fixed-term leases and loans were not consolidated. As of the beginning of the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we adopted the new accounting guidance that requires us to apply variable interest entity accounting to these special purpose entities and therefore, consolidated the two remaining nonconsolidated SPEs. The impact of the adoption resulted in a decrease to beginning retained earnings for Fiscal 2011 of $13 million. There was no impact to our results of operations or our cash flows upon adoption of the new accounting guidance. Starting in the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we account for these fixed-term securitization programs as secured borrowings. At April 30, 2010 and January 29, 2010, the structured financing debt related to all of our secured borrowing securitization programs was $830 million and $164 million, respectively, and the carrying amount of the corresponding financing receivables was $1.2 billion and $0.3 billion, respectively. We maintain an allowance to cover expected financing receivable credit losses and we evaluate credit loss expectations based on our total managed portfolio. For the periods ended April 30, 2010, and January 29, 2010, the annualized principal charge-off rate for our managed portfolio was 7.6% and 8.2%, respectively. The allowance for losses is determined based on various factors, including historical and anticipated experience, past due receivables, receivable type, and customer risk profile. At April 30, 2010, and January 29, 2010, the allowance for financing 37 Table of Contents receivable losses was $285 million and $237 million, respectively. In general, we are seeing improving loss rates associated with our financing receivables as the economy strengthens. The increase in the allowance is primarily due to the incremental allowance from the consolidation of variable interest entities and an additional allowance related to assets that were included in a qualified special purpose entity and consolidated during the second quarter of Fiscal 2010, which have liquidated slower than what was originally anticipated. Based on our assessment of the customer financing receivables, we believe that we are adequately reserved. The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility, and Disclosure Act of 2009 was signed into U.S. law on May 22, 2009, and will affect the consumer financing provided by DFS. This Act will impose new restrictions on credit card companies in the areas of marketing, servicing, and pricing of consumer credit accounts. We do not expect the changes will substantially alter how consumer credit is offered to our customers or how their accounts will be serviced. Commercial credit is unaffected by the change in law. A majority of the provisions of the law are now in effect, with additional provisions becoming effective in August 2010. We expect to be compliant with future regulations by the established deadlines. Some of the future regulations, including changes to rules relating to late fees, are subject to additional clarification. We do not expect the impact of these pending changes to be material to our financial results in future periods. See Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information about our financing receivables. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS With the consolidation of our previously nonconsolidated special purpose entities, we no longer have off-balance sheet financing arrangements. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Current Market Conditions We regularly monitor economic conditions and associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. Though there were signs of improvement in the global economic environment during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we continue to be cautious given the volatility associated with international sovereign economies. We continue to evaluate the financial health of our supplier base, carefully manage customer credit, diversify counterparty risk, and monitor the concentration risk of our cash and cash equivalents balances globally. Additionally, we maintain a conservative investment portfolio with shorter duration and high quality assets. We monitor credit risk associated with our financial counterparties using various market credit risk indicators such as credit ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies and changes in market credit default swap levels. We perform periodic evaluations of our positions with these counterparties and may limit exposure to any one counterparty in accordance with our policies. We monitor and manage these activities depending on current and expected market developments. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2010, for further discussion of risks associated with instability in the financial markets as well as our use of counterparties. We believe that no significant concentration of credit risk exists for our investments. The impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of any credit adjustments related to these counterparties has been immaterial. Liquidity We ended the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 with $11.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and investments compared to $10.7 billion at the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, including substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. Amounts held outside of the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S., unless limited by local regulations. Where local regulations limit an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, we will continue to utilize these amounts for local liquidity needs. Under current law, balances available to be repatriated would be subject to U. S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on these amounts for financial statement 38 Table of Contents purposes, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed. Our non-U.S. domiciled cash and investments are generally denominated in the U.S. dollar. We have an active working capital management team that monitors the efficiency of our balance sheet by evaluating liquidity under various macroeconomic and competitive scenarios. These scenarios quantify risks to the financial statements and provide a basis for actions necessary to ensure adequate liquidity. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we repurchased $200 million of our shares and continued to monitor and prioritize capital expenditures and other discretionary spending. Cash generated from operations is our primary source of operating liquidity and we believe that internally generated cash flows are sufficient to support business operations. We expect to continue to grow our business through strategic acquisitions, which will impact our future cash requirements and liquidity. We utilize external capital sources, such as notes and other term debt, commercial paper, or structured financing arrangements, to supplement our internally generated sources of liquidity as necessary. Outstanding as of April 30, 2010, was $3.3 billion in principal on long-term notes, $410 million in commercial paper, and $830 million in structured financing debt. In November 2008, we filed a shelf registration statement with the SEC for debt securities. The amount of debt securities issued under this registration statement at any point in time will be established by our Board of Directors. The following table contains a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the respective periods: Three Months Ended April 30, May 1, 2010 2009 (in millions) Net change in cash from: Operating activities $ 238 $ 761 Investing activities (360 ) 131 Financing activities (254 ) 485 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (4 ) (38 ) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (380 ) $ 1,339 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities were $238 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 compared to $761 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. The decrease in operating cash flows was primarily led by unfavorable changes in working capital, and the timing of settlement of favorable foreign exchange contracts during the first quarter of Fiscal 2010, the effects of which were partially offset by the increase in net income. See Key Performance Metrics below for additional discussion of our cash conversion cycle. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 was $360 million as compared to cash provided of $131 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. Investing activities consist of the net of maturities and sales and purchases of investments; net capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment; and net cash used to fund strategic acquisitions. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, net cash used for investment activities was $181 million, as compared to a net cash sourced of $214 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 due to a shift from cash equivalents to short-term investments. Cash used to fund strategic acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was approximately $133 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, primarily related to the acquisition of KACE, compared to $3 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2010. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2010, was $254 million as compared to cash provided of $485 million during the three months ended May 1, 2009. Financing activities primarily consist of proceeds and repayments from borrowings and the repurchase of our common stock. The year-over-year decrease in cash provided by financing activities was mainly due to net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt of $497 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2010 and a share repurchase of 12 million shares for $200 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. The amount of shares repurchased during the first quarter of 39 Table of Contents Fiscal 2010 was immaterial to financing activities. We expect to repurchase an additional amount of shares throughout Fiscal 2011. Due to the overall strength of our financial position, we believe that we will have adequate access to capital markets. We intend to maintain the appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, the overall cost of capital, cash requirements for operations, and discretionary spending, including for acquisitions and share repurchases. As of April 30, 2010, we had a $1.5 billion commercial paper program enabling us to obtain attractive short-term borrowings. Subsequent to April 30, 2010, Dell entered into a new agreement to expand Dells commercial paper program to $2 billion. Dell has $2 billion of senior unsecured revolving credit facilities supporting the commercial paper program. Our $2 billion of credit facilities consist of two agreements with $1 billion expiring on June 1, 2011, and the remaining $1 billion expiring on April 2, 2013. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we issued commercial paper with original maturities of less than 90 days and we continue to be active in the commercial paper market by issuing short-term borrowings to augment our liquidity as needed. As of April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009, we had $410 million and $100 million, respectively, in outstanding commercial paper. We issued structured financing-related debt to fund our financing receivables as previously discussed in the Financing Receivables section above. The total debt capacity of our securitization programs is $1.1 billion, which we expect to be adequate to fund expected securitization activities during Fiscal 2011. As of April 30, 2010, we had $830 million in outstanding structured financing-related debt. Standard and Poors Rating Services, Moodys Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings currently rate our senior unsecured long-term debt A-, A2, and A, respectively, and our short-term debt A-1, P-1, and F1, respectively. These rating agencies use proprietary and independent methods of evaluating our credit risk. Factors used in determining our rating include, but are not limited to, publically available information, industry trends and ongoing discussions between the company and the agencies. We are not aware of any planned changes to our corporate credit ratings by the rating agencies. However, any credit rating downgrade will increase our borrowing costs and may limit our ability to issue commercial paper or additional term debt. See the debt section in Note 6 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for further discussion of our debt. 40 Table of Contents Key Performance Metrics Our cash conversion cycle for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2010, improved from the fiscal quarter ended May 1, 2009. Our business model allows us to maintain an efficient cash conversion cycle, which compares favorably with that of others in our industry. The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle for the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009: Three Months Ended April 30, May 1, 2010 2009 Days of sales outstanding (a) 38 34 Days of supply in inventory (b) 9 7 Days in accounts payable (c) (83 ) (69 ) Cash conversion cycle (36 ) (28 ) (a) Days of sales outstanding (DSO) calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on the ending net trade receivables and the most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO also includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in other current assets. DSO is calculated by adding accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and customer shipments in transit and dividing that sum by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (90 days). At April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 35 and 3 days, and 31 and 3 days, respectively. (b) Days of supply in inventory (DSI) measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DSI is based on ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DSI is calculated by dividing inventory by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). (c) Days in accounts payable (DPO) calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). Our cash conversion cycle improved eight days at April 30, 2010, from May 1, 2009, driven by a 14 day improvement in DPO, which was partially offset by a four day increase in DSO and a two day increase in DSI. The improvement in DPO from May 1, 2009, was attributable to our ongoing transition to contract manufacturing, further standardization of vendor agreements, and timing of supplier purchases and payments during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 as compared to same period of Fiscal 2010. The increase in DSO from May 1, 2009, was primarily attributable to growth in customer receivables with longer payment terms. The increase in DSI from May 1, 2009, was primarily attributable to an increase in strategic materials purchases and finished goods inventory. We defer the cost of revenue associated with customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue until they are delivered. These deferred costs are included in our reported DSO because we believe this reporting results in a more accurate presentation of our DSO and cash conversion cycle. These deferred costs are recorded in other current assets in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and totaled $465 million and $409 million, at April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009, respectively. We believe that we can generate cash flow from operations in excess of net income over the long term and can operate our cash conversion cycle at negative mid-thirty days or better. Capital Commitments Share Repurchase Program We have a share repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase shares of common stock through a systematic program of open market purchases in order to increase shareholder value and manage dilution resulting from shares issued under our equity compensation plans. However, we do not currently have a policy that requires the repurchase of common stock to offset share-based compensation arrangements. For more information regarding share repurchases, see Part II Item 2 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. Capital Expenditures During the three months ended April 30, 2010, and May 1, 2009, we spent $46 million and $80 million, respectively, on property, plant, and equipment primarily on our global expansion efforts and infrastructure investments in order to support future growth. Product demand, product mix, and the increased 41 Table of Contents use of contract manufacturers, as well as ongoing investments in operating and information technology infrastructure, influence the level and prioritization of our capital expenditures. Capital expenditures for Fiscal 2011, related to infrastructure refreshment and strategic initiatives, are currently expected to reach approximately $500 million. These expenditures are expected to be funded from our cash flows from operating activities. Restricted Cash As of April 30, 2010, and January 29, 2010, we have restricted cash in the amount of $179 million and $147 million, respectively, included in other current assets. These balances primarily relate to an agreement between DFS and CIT, which requires us to maintain escrow cash accounts that are held as recourse reserves for credit losses, performance fee deposits related to our private label credit card, and deferred servicing revenue. RECENTLY ISSUED AND ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for a description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.