ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All percentage amounts and ratios presented in this management's discussion and analysis were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current-period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding fiscal periods. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. The fiscal year ending February 1, 2013 ("Fiscal 2013") will be a 52 week period. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this managements discussion and analysis to we, us, our and Dell mean Dell Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. This managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2012, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in that report. INTRODUCTION We are a leading integrated technology solutions provider in the IT industry. We built our reputation through listening to customers and developing solutions that meet customer needs. We are focused on providing long-term value creation through the delivery of customized solutions that make technology more efficient, more accessible, and easier to manage. Our four customer-centric, global business segments are Large Enterprise, Public, Small and Medium Business ("SMB"), and Consumer. We also refer to our Large Enterprise, Public, and SMB segments as Commercial. A key component of our business strategy is to continue shifting our portfolio to products and services that provide higher-value and recurring revenue streams over time. As part of this strategy, we emphasize expansion of our enterprise solutions and services, which include servers, networking, storage, and services. We believe the most attractive areas for profitable growth include data center and information management as well as client and cloud computing. We believe software will enhance our enterprise solutions, and accordingly, in early Fiscal 2013, we launched our newly formed software group to expand our ability to execute in strategic areas that are important to our customers. We now have four solutions groups to support our global business segments: enterprise solutions, services, end-user computing, and software. Emerging countries, which include a vast majority of the world's population, are attractive growth opportunities for technology expansion. In recent years, we have focused much of our investment in Growth Countries, which we define as non-U.S. markets excluding Western Europe, Canada, and Japan, with a particular focus on BRIC, which consists of Brazil, Russia, India, and China. Our strategic transformation has contributed to significant improvements in our operating margins over time. We employ a collaborative approach to product design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design innovative solutions and work with a global network of technology companies to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products. Through this collaborative, customer-focused approach, we strive to deliver new and relevant products and services to the market quickly and efficiently. For our client business, we have directed our development efforts towards streamlining our product portfolio and focusing on product leadership by developing next generation capabilities. We continue to invest in the enhancement of our sales and marketing functions. Over time, we have added new distribution channels, such as retail, system integrators, value-added resellers, and distributors, to expand our access to more end-users around the world. We supplement organic growth with a disciplined acquisition program targeting businesses that will expand our portfolio of higher-margin enterprise solutions offerings. We emphasize acquisitions of companies with portfolios that we can leverage with our global customer base and distribution. Since the beginning of Fiscal 2012, we have acquired several businesses that extend our core capabilities in a variety of enterprise offerings, including storage, networking, systems management appliance, virtualized server, data center, and desktop solutions, and software-as-a-service application integration, as well as enabled expansion of our customer financing activities. We completed five of these acquisitions in Fiscal 2013, including our acquisitions of SonicWALL and Wyse Technology. The comparability of our results of operations for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 is affected by these acquisitions, although the impact is not material. For further discussion regarding our acquisitions, see Note 8 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements. 32 Table of Contents Presentation of Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures In this management's discussion and analysis, we use supplemental measures of our performance, which are derived from our consolidated financial information but which are not presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). These financial measures, which are considered non-GAAP financial measures under SEC rules, include our non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share. See Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for information about our use of these non-GAAP financial measures, including our reasons for including the measures, material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures, and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 33 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations for the three months ended May 4, 2012 , and April 29, 2011 : Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except per share amounts and percentages) Net revenue: Product $ 11,423 79.2 % (5 )% $ 12,059 80.3 % Services, including software related 2,999 20.8 % 1 % 2,958 19.7 % Total net revenue $ 14,422 100.0 % (4 )% $ 15,017 100.0 % Gross margin: Product $ 2,093 18.3 % (20 )% $ 2,623 21.8 % Services, including software related 974 32.5 % 20 % 809 27.3 % Total gross margin $ 3,067 21.3 % (11 )% $ 3,432 22.9 % Operating expenses $ 2,243 15.6 % 1 % $ 2,220 14.8 % Operating income $ 824 5.7 % (32 )% $ 1,212 8.1 % Net income $ 635 4.4 % (33 )% $ 945 6.3 % Earnings per share - diluted $ 0.36 N/A (27 )% $ 0.49 N/A Other Financial Information (a) Non-GAAP gross margin $ 3,167 22.0 % (10 )% $ 3,511 23.4 % Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,157 15.0 % 1 % $ 2,135 14.2 % Non-GAAP operating income $ 1,010 7.0 % (27 )% $ 1,376 9.2 % Non-GAAP net income $ 761 5.3 % (28 )% $ 1,050 7.0 % Non-GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.43 N/A (22 )% $ 0.55 N/A _____________________ (a) Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for information about these non-GAAP financial measures, including our reasons for including the measures, material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures, and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Overview For the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, our total net revenue decreased 4%. Our sales force execution was below expectations, impacting our results this quarter. We have taken actions going into the second quarter of Fiscal 2013 to optimize our sales coverage and increase our focus on selling integrated offerings, and we are confident these actions will improve our sales efficiency as we move through Fiscal 2013. Revenue from our Commercial segments decreased 2%, and represented approximately 79% of our total net revenue. The decrease in our Commercial revenue was due in part to delayed spending from our Large Enterprise customers and budgetary constraints that impacted our Public customers. Revenue in our SMB segment increased, which was driven by revenue from our enterprise solutions and services offerings. Revenue from our Consumer customers decreased 12%, and represented approximately 21% of our total net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. We experienced a competitive pricing environment in our Consumer business, and we limited our participation in low-value client products, particularly in Growth Countries. Overall, revenue from our enterprise solutions and services increased 2%, while revenue from our client products decreased 6%. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, revenue from enterprise solutions and services represented 31% of total revenue, and gross margin from this area represented 50% of total gross margin. 34 Table of Contents During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, our consolidated operating income as a percentage of net revenue decreased 240 basis points to 5.7%. Operating income as a percentage of net revenue from our Commercial segments decreased 200 basis points to 9.3% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, while our Consumer operating income percentage decreased 380 basis points to 1.1%. The decrease in operating income percentage for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was primarily driven by reduced product gross margin percentage, particularly for our client products, the effect of which was partially offset by higher gross margin percentage associated with our services offerings. Our operating expenses as a percentage of revenue also increased, which further reduced our operating income percentage. As of May 4, 2012 , we had $17.2 billion of total cash, cash equivalents, and investments, compared to $18.2 billion as of February 3, 2012. Cash used in operating activities was $138 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, compared to cash flow from operations of $465 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. As of May 4, 2012 , we had $9.0 billion in total debt, compared to $9.3 billion in total debt as of February 3, 2012. We are committed to our strategic transformation, and we will continue to make investments that improve our end-to-end solutions capabilities. In the long-run, we believe that we will profitably grow revenue and operating income through the expansion of our enterprise solutions and services, although this growth will not always be linear. We will continue to monitor the dynamics of our industry and adjust as necessary to optimize operating income and cash flow. We believe sequential revenue growth for the second quarter will be consistent with normal seasonality. Revenue Product Revenue Product revenue decreased 5% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. We experienced a competitive pricing environment during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, particularly for our client products. See "Revenue by Product and Services Categories" for further information regarding product revenue. Services Revenue, including software related Services revenue, including software related, increased by 1% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. Our services revenue performance during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was attributable to a 4% increase in revenue from services, excluding software related, largely offset by a 5% decrease in third-party software revenue, which has been impacted by a continued reduction of our participation in non-strategic areas. The increase in revenue from services, including software related, was driven by growth in our SMB and Large Enterprise segments, partially offset by a decline in services revenue from our Public and Consumer segments. Revenue from outside the U.S. decreased 2% to $7.5 billion and represented 52% of total net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, while revenue from the U.S. decreased 6% to $6.9 billion. Revenue from Growth Countries was essentially unchanged, as we experienced a more competitive pricing environment in these markets. We experienced 9% growth in revenue from China, which was offset by declines in revenue from other Growth Countries, as we focused on optimizing profitability. We continue to view these markets, which include the vast majority of the world's population, as a long-term growth opportunity. Accordingly, we are continuing to tailor solutions to meet specific regional needs of these markets, and enhance relationships within these regions to provide customer choice and flexibility. We manage our business on a U.S. dollar basis and factor foreign currency exchange rate movements into our pricing decisions. In addition, we utilize a comprehensive hedging strategy intended to mitigate the impact of foreign currency volatility over time. As a result of our hedging programs, the impact of foreign currency movements was not material to our total net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. Gross Margin Products During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, product gross margins decreased in absolute dollars and in gross margin percentage. Product gross margin percentage decreased to 18.3% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 from 21.8% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The decline in product gross margins was driven by a more competitive pricing environment as we moved through Fiscal 2012 into Fiscal 2013, particularly for our client products. Services, including software related During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, our gross margin for services, including software related, increased in absolute dollars and in gross margin percentage. Our gross margin percentage for services, including software related, increased to 32.5% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 from 27.3% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The increase in gross margin for services, including software related, was primarily driven by increases in gross margin percentages from our support and deployment services, which primarily consist of extended warranty services, and our infrastructure, cloud, and security services. In addition, software gross margins increased in absolute dollars and in gross margin percentage. 35 Table of Contents Total gross margin for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 decreased 11% and 10% on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, respectively. Total gross margin on a GAAP basis for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was $3.1 billion, compared to $3.2 billion on a non-GAAP basis. Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 includes the effects of amortization of intangible assets and of severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges. As set forth in the reconciliation under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below, these items are excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP gross margin for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012. Amortization of intangible assets included in GAAP gross margin increased 24% to $88 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. The increase in amortization of intangibles for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was primarily attributable to an increase in purchased intangible assets over the period. Thailand In the third quarter of Fiscal 2012, several regions of Thailand experienced severe flooding, causing damage to infrastructure and factories that has significantly impacted the hard disk drive ("HDD") supply chain. As previously reported, during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2012, we entered into purchase commitments with certain HDD suppliers to ensure continuity of supply for these components. These purchase agreements have terms expiring on various dates through December 2012. In general, we experienced better supply of HDDs in the first quarter of Fiscal 2013; although we continued to manage supply availability to our customers. We expect the impact of the HDD situation to improve as we move through Fiscal 2013. Vendor Rebate Programs Our gross margin is affected by our ability to achieve competitive pricing with our vendors and contract manufacturers, including through our negotiation of a variety of vendor rebate programs to achieve lower net costs for the various components we include in our products. Under these programs, vendors provide us with rebates or other discounts from the list prices for the components, which are generally elements of their pricing strategy. Vendor rebate programs are only one element of the costs we negotiate for our product components. We account for rebates and other discounts as a reduction in cost of net revenue. Our total net cost includes supplier list prices reduced by vendor rebates and other discounts. We manage our costs on a total net cost basis. The terms and conditions of our vendor rebate programs are largely based on product volumes and are generally not long-term in nature, but instead are typically negotiated at the beginning of each quarter. Because of the fluid nature of these ongoing negotiations, which reflect changes in the competitive environment, the timing and amount of rebates and other discounts we receive under the programs may vary from period to period. Since we manage our component costs on a total net cost basis, any fluctuations in the timing and amount of rebates and other discounts we receive from vendors may not necessarily result in material changes to our gross margin. We monitor our component costs and seek to address the effects of any changes to terms that might arise under our vendor rebate programs. Our gross margins for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 were not materially affected by any changes to the terms of our vendor rebate programs, as the amounts we received under these programs were generally stable relative to our total net cost. We are not aware of any programmatic changes to vendor pricing and rebate programs that will significantly impact our results in the near term. In addition, we have pursued legal action against certain vendors and are currently involved in negotiations with other vendors regarding their past pricing practices. We have negotiated settlements with some of these vendors and may have additional settlements in future quarters. These settlements are allocated to our segments based on the relative amount of affected vendor products used by each segment. Our gross margins for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 were not materially affected by negotiated vendor settlements, including settlements related to past pricing practices. 36 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents information regarding our operating expenses for the three months ended May 4, 2012 , and April 29, 2011 : Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Operating expenses: Selling, general, and administrative $ 2,009 13.9 % (1 )% $ 2,025 13.5 % Research, development, and engineering 234 1.7 % 20 % 195 1.3 % Total operating expenses $ 2,243 15.6 % 1 % $ 2,220 14.8 % Other Financial Information Non-GAAP operating expenses (a) $ 2,157 15.0 % 1 % $ 2,135 14.2 % (a) For a reconciliation of non-GAAP operating expenses to operating expenses prepared in accordance with GAAP, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Selling, General, and Administrative During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses decreased 1%. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, we experienced a 2% increase in compensation-related expenses, excluding severance-related costs, which was driven by a 2% increase in headcount, primarily due to acquisitions. This increase was offset by a decrease in other general and administrative expenses. Research, Development, and Engineering During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, research, development, and engineering expenses were 1.7% of net revenue, compared to 1.3% in the prior year. This increase reflects our focus to shift our investments to research and development activities that support our initiatives that grow our enterprise solutions, services, and software offerings. Total operating expenses for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 increased 1% to $2.2 billion on both a GAAP and non-GAAP basis. Operating expenses on a GAAP basis for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012 includes the effects of amortization of intangible assets and of severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges. In aggregate, these charges were essentially unchanged for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. As set forth in the reconciliation under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below, these items are excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP operating expenses for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012. Operating and Net Income Operating Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, operating income decreased 32% to $824 million on a GAAP basis and 27% to $1.0 billion on a non-GAAP basis. This decrease was attributable to declines in revenue and declines in product gross margin percentage, the effects of which were partially offset by improved gross margin percentages for services, including software related. Net Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, net income decreased 33% to $635 million on a GAAP basis and 28% to $761 million on a non-GAAP basis. Net income was impacted by decreases in operating income and a higher effective tax rate, the effects of which were partially offset by favorable changes in interest and other, net. See Income and Other Taxes and Interest and Other, Net below for a discussion of our effective tax rates and interest and other, net. 37 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use non-GAAP financial measures to supplement the financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows our management to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of our segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of our underlying operating performance. We also believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows our management to better project our future consolidated financial performance because our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate our operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of our operating performance, and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report include non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by us, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges and amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, and for non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share, the aggregate adjustment for income taxes related to the exclusion of such items. We provide more detail below regarding each of these items and our reasons for excluding them. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Our management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP financial measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as a substitute for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We provide below reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and encourage you to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each respective period. The following is a summary of the costs and other items excluded from the most comparable GAAP financial measures to calculate the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this management's discussion and analysis: Severance and Facility Actions and Acquisition-related Costs Severance and facility action costs are primarily related to facilities charges including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to cost synergies related to strategic acquisitions and actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs. Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, and other costs. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in the future, we believe that eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, acquired technology, non-compete covenants, and trade names purchased in connection with business acquisitions. We incur charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Amortization charges for our purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount from period to period and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisitions. Consequently, we exclude these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to 38 Table of Contents facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Aggregate Adjustment for Income Taxes The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the items described above. The tax effects are determined based on the jurisdictions where the items were incurred. The table below presents a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP measure for each of the three months ended May 4, 2012 , and April 29, 2011 : Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 % Change April 29, 2011 (in millions, except percentages) GAAP gross margin $ 3,067 (11 )% $ 3,432 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 88 71 Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs 12 8 Non-GAAP gross margin $ 3,167 (10 )% $ 3,511 GAAP operating expenses $ 2,243 1 % $ 2,220 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles (22 ) (21) Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs (64 ) (64) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,157 1 % $ 2,135 GAAP operating income $ 824 (32 )% $ 1,212 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 110 92 Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs 76 72 Non-GAAP operating income $ 1,010 (27 )% $ 1,376 GAAP net income $ 635 (33 )% $ 945 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 110 92 Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs 76 72 Aggregate adjustment for income taxes (60 ) (59) Non-GAAP net income $ 761 (28 )% $ 1,050 GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.36 (27 )% $ 0.49 Non-GAAP adjustments per share - diluted 0.07 0.06 Non-GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.43 (22 )% $ 0.55 39 Table of Contents Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 Percentage of Total Net Revenue GAAP gross margin 21.3 % 22.9 % Non-GAAP adjustments 0.7 % 0.5 % Non-GAAP gross margin 22.0 % 23.4 % GAAP operating expenses 15.6 % 14.8 % Non-GAAP adjustments (0.6 )% (0.6 )% Non-GAAP operating expenses 15.0 % 14.2 % GAAP operating income 5.7 % 8.1 % Non-GAAP adjustments 1.3 % 1.1 % Non-GAAP operating income 7.0 % 9.2 % GAAP net income 4.4 % 6.3 % Non-GAAP adjustments 0.9 % 0.7 % Non-GAAP net income 5.3 % 7.0 % 40 Table of Contents Segment Discussion Our four global business segments are Large Enterprise, Public, Small and Medium Business, and Consumer. Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related charges, broad based, long-term incentive expenses, and amortization of purchased intangible assets, are not allocated to the reporting segments as management does not believe that these items are reflective of the underlying operating performance of the reporting segments. These costs totaled $270 million and $261 million for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012, respectively. In the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, we made certain segment realignments in order to conform to the way we now internally manage segment performance. These realignments affected all of our operating segments, but primarily consisted of the transfer of small office business customers from our SMB operating segment to our Consumer segment. We have recast prior period amounts to provide visibility and comparability. None of these changes impact our previously reported consolidated net revenue, gross margin, operating income, net income, or earnings per share. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information and a reconciliation of segment revenue and operating income to consolidated revenue and operating income. The following table presents our net revenue and operating income by our reportable global segments: Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 Dollars % of Revenue (a) % Change Dollars % of Revenue (a) (in millions, except percentages) Large Enterprise Net revenue $ 4,436 31 % (3 )% $ 4,587 31 % Operating income $ 402 9.1 % (22 )% $ 516 11.2 % Public Net revenue $ 3,466 24 % (4 )% $ 3,621 24 % Operating income $ 271 7.8 % (23 )% $ 352 9.7 % Small and Medium Business Net revenue $ 3,477 24 % 4 % $ 3,355 22 % Operating income $ 389 11.2 % (10 )% $ 435 13.0 % Consumer Net revenue $ 3,043 21 % (12 )% $ 3,454 23 % Operating income $ 32 1.1 % (81 )% $ 170 4.9 % _______________________ (a) Operating income percentage of revenue is stated in relation to the respective segment. Large Enterprise During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Large Enterprise experienced a 3% decrease in revenue which was due to the sales execution issues we experienced as well as delayed spending from our Large Enterprise customers. Revenue across all product lines decreased, except for services revenue, which increased 9%. Revenue from servers and networking and storage decreased 5% and 17%, respectively, while revenue from software and peripherals, mobility products, and desktop PC revenue decreased 12%, 3%, and 1%, respectively. At a regional level, Large Enterprise revenue from the Americas and the Asia Pacific and Japan region ("APJ") decreased during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, while revenue from Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA") increased. The decline in revenue from the Americas was primarily driven by a decline in revenue from the U.S. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Large Enterprise's operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased 210 basis points to 9.1%. This decrease was primarily attributable to declines in gross margin for our products, partially offset by an increase in gross margins attributable to our services, including software related. To a lesser extent, the decrease in Large Enterprise's operating income was also impacted by a 4% increase in operating expenses, primarily attributable to higher selling and marketing costs. 41 Table of Contents Public During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Public experienced a 4% decrease in revenue which was attributable to the sales execution issues we experienced as well as budgetary constraints on public spending. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, revenue from all product lines decreased, except for revenue from servers and networking, which was essentially unchanged. Revenue from storage and services decreased 11% and 2%, respectively, while revenue from software and peripherals, mobility products, and desktop PC revenue decreased 7%, 9%, and 2%, respectively. At a regional level, Public revenue from the Americas decreased during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, primarily driven by a decline in revenue from the U.S., while revenue from APJ and EMEA was essentially unchanged. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Public's operating income as a percentage of net revenue decreased 190 basis points to 7.8%. This decrease was primarily attributable to declines in gross margin for our products, partially offset by an increase in gross margins attributable to our services, including software related. Small and Medium Business During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, SMB experienced a 4% increase in revenue which was primarily attributable to increases in enterprise solutions and services revenue, partially offset by a decrease in mobility and desktop PC revenue. Revenue from servers and networking, storage, and services increased 16%, 7%, and 23%, respectively. Revenue from software and peripherals increased 1%, while mobility revenue and revenue from desktop PCs decreased 5% and 2%, respectively. SMB experienced revenue growth across all regions, led by a 10% increase in revenue from APJ. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, SMB's operating income as a percentage of net revenue decreased 180 basis points to 11.2%. This decrease was primarily attributable to declines in gross margin for our products and increased operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in gross margins attributable to our services, including software related. Consumer During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Consumer experienced a 12% decrease in revenue. Revenue from all product and services categories decreased during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, except desktop PC revenue, which increased 2%. The increase in desktop PC revenue was driven by a 13% increase in units sold, largely offset by a 9% decrease in average selling prices. The overall decrease in consumer revenue was primarily attributable to a 15% decline in mobility product revenue, driven by an 11% decrease in units sold and a 5% decrease in average selling prices. Revenue from software and peripherals decreased 9%, and Consumer services revenue decreased 13%, primarily due to a decrease in client units sold. Consumer revenue was impacted in the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 as we limited our participation in lower-value offerings, such as low-value notebooks and software and peripherals, particularly in Growth Countries. In addition, we experienced competition from alternative mobile computing devices, including tablets and smart phones. Consumer experienced declines in revenue across all regions, particularly in the Americas, driven by a decline in revenue from the U.S. Revenue from Growth Countries decreased 6%, although revenue from BRIC continued to increase overall. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Consumer's operating income as a percentage of net revenue decreased 380 basis points to 1.1%. The decrease in operating income percentage was primarily attributable to the competitive pricing environment we experienced in the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. 42 Table of Contents Revenue by Product and Services Categories We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of products that in many cases are customized to individual customer requirements. Our products are organized into enterprise and client categories. Our enterprise products include servers and networking, and storage products. Client products include mobility and desktop PC products. Our services include a broad range of configurable IT and business services, including support and deployment services, infrastructure, cloud, and security services, and applications and business process services. We also offer software and peripheral products. The following table summarizes our net revenue by product and services categories for the three months ended May 4, 2012 , and April 29, 2011 : Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Net revenue: Enterprise solutions and services: Enterprise solutions: Servers and networking $ 2,017 14 % 2 % $ 1,973 13 % Storage 444 3 % (8 )% 481 3 % Services 2,071 14 % 4 % 1,984 13 % Software and peripherals 2,386 17 % (7 )% 2,567 17 % Client: Mobility 4,236 29 % (10 )% 4,716 32 % Desktop PCs 3,268 23 % (1 )% 3,296 22 % Total net revenue $ 14,422 100 % (4 )% $ 15,017 100 % Enterprise Solutions and Services Enterprise Solutions: Servers and Networking The increase in our servers and networking revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 as compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was primarily driven by our acquisition of Force10 Networks Inc., which expanded our networking offerings, as well as an increase in revenue from our PowerConnect line of networking products. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in revenue, as we saw a decline in average selling prices for our servers, which was largely offset by an increase in unit demand. At the end of the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, we launched our next generation line of servers, and we are seeing a positive response to these new servers. Storage During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, storage revenue decreased 8%. The decrease in storage revenue was primarily attributable to an anticipated decline in sales of third-party storage products, which was partially offset by revenue from sales of Dell-owned storage products, such as our Compellent products. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, sales of Dell-owned storage products increased 24% to 95% of our total storage revenue, compared to 71% in the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. We believe Dell-owned storage offerings will generate higher margins in the long-term. Services During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, services revenue increased 4% to $2.1 billion. This increase was driven by an 8% increase in support and deployment services, which consist of support and extended warranty services, managed deployment, enterprise installation, and configuration services. Our estimated services backlog as of May 4, 2012, and February 3, 2012, was $15.4 billion and $15.5 billion, respectively. We provide information regarding services backlog because we believe it provides useful trend information regarding changes in the size of our services business over time. Services backlog, as defined by us, includes deferred revenue from extended warranties and contracted services backlog. Deferred revenue from extended warranties was $7.0 billion as of May 4, 2012, and February 3, 2012, respectively. Estimated contracted services backlog, which is primarily related to our outsourcing services business, was $8.3 billion and $8.5 billion as of May 4, 43 Table of Contents 2012, and February 3, 2012, respectively. See "Part II Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Revenue by Product and Services categories Services" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2012 for more information on our services backlog calculation. Software and Peripherals Revenue from sales of software and peripherals (S&P) is derived from sales of Dell-branded printers, monitors (not sold with systems), projectors, keyboards, mice, docking stations, and a multitude of third-party peripherals, including televisions, cameras, third-party software sales and related support services, and other products. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, S&P revenue decreased 7%. Revenue growth in S&P has been impacted as we continue to reduce our participation in non-strategic areas. In addition, revenue growth in the S&P area was impacted in the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 by a decrease in unit sales of our client products, which affected our ability to attach additional S&P products. Software revenue from our S&P line of business, which includes stand-alone sales of software license fees and related post-contract customer support, is reported in services revenue, including software related, on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Software and related support services revenue represented 31% and 33% of services revenue, including software related, for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012, respectively. Client Mobility Revenue from mobility products (which include notebooks, mobile workstations, smartphones, and tablets) decreased 10% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. This decrease was attributable to a 6% decrease in notebook units sold and a 4% decline in average selling price. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, Commercial mobility revenue decreased 5%, while Consumer mobility revenue decreased 15%. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, we experienced an increasingly competitive pricing environment in our client business, particularly for our lower-value offerings in Growth Countries. In addition, particularly in our Consumer segment, we are seeing some impact as customers focus on alternative computing devices, including tablets and smartphones. Desktop PCs During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, revenue from desktop PCs (which include desktop computer systems and fixed workstations) decreased 1%. This decrease was driven by a 3% decrease in average selling prices for our desktop PCs, largely offset by a 2% increase in unit sales. Interest and Other, Net The following table provides a detailed presentation of interest and other, net for the three months ended May 4, 2012 , and April 29, 2011 : Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 (in millions) Interest and other, net: Investment income, primarily interest $ 29 $ 17 Gains (losses) on investments, net 6 1 Interest expense (69 ) (62 ) Foreign exchange 10 Other (8 ) 2 Interest and other, net $ (32 ) $ (42 ) During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, interest and other net, increased $10 million. This increase was attributable to increases in investment income and foreign exchange gains, which were largely offset by increases in interest and other expenses. 44 Table of Contents Income and Other Taxes Our effective tax rate was 19.8% and 19.2% for the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012, respectively. The slight increase in our effective income tax rate for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 from the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was primarily due to a decrease in the proportion of taxable income attributable to lower tax jurisdictions. In addition, our effective tax rate was impacted by the expiration of certain beneficial U.S. tax statutes that have not been extended. Our effective tax rate can fluctuate depending on the geographic distribution of our world-wide earnings, as our foreign earnings are generally taxed at lower rates than in the U.S. In certain jurisdictions, our tax rate is significantly less than the applicable statutory rate as a result of tax holidays. The majority of our foreign income that is subject to these tax holidays and lower tax rates is attributable to Singapore, China, and Malaysia. Our significant tax holidays expire in whole or in part during Fiscal 2016 through Fiscal 2021. The differences between our effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% principally resulted from the geographical distribution of taxable income discussed above and permanent differences between the book and tax treatment of certain items. We continue to assess our business model and its impact in various taxing jurisdictions. For further discussion regarding tax matters, including the status of income tax audits, see Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements." ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE We sell products and services directly to customers and through a variety of sales channels, including retail distribution. Our accounts receivable, net was $6.3 billion as of May 4, 2012, which represented a 3% decrease from our balance at February 3, 2012. This decrease in accounts receivable, net was primarily due to a sequential decrease in revenue. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to cover receivables that may be deemed uncollectible. The allowance for losses is based on specific identifiable customer accounts that are deemed at risk and a provision for accounts that are collectively evaluated based on historical bad debt experience. As of May 4, 2012, and February 3, 2012, the allowance for doubtful accounts was $64 million and $63 million, respectively. Based on our assessment, we believe we are adequately reserved for expected credit losses. We monitor the aging of our accounts receivable and continue to take actions to reduce our exposure to credit losses. DELL FINANCIAL SERVICES AND FINANCING RECEIVABLES Dell Financial Services ("DFS") offers a wide range of financial services, including originating, collecting, and servicing customer receivables primarily related to the purchase of Dell products. To support the financing needs of our customers internationally, we have aligned with a select number of third-party financial services companies. During Fiscal 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire CIT Vendor Finance's Dell-related financing assets portfolio and sales and servicing functions in Europe for approximately $400 million. Subject to customary closing, regulatory, and other conditions, we expect to complete this transaction in Fiscal 2014. At May 4, 2012, and February 3, 2012, our net financing receivables balances were $4.5 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively. To manage the expected net growth in financing receivables, we will continue to balance the use of our own working capital and other sources of liquidity, including securitization programs. We have securitization programs to fund revolving loans and fixed-term leases and loans through consolidated special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which we account for as secured borrowings. We transfer certain U.S. customer financing receivables to these SPEs, whose purpose is to facilitate the funding of customer receivables through financing arrangements with multi-seller conduits that issue asset-backed debt securities in the capital markets. During the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012, we transferred $536 million and $499 million, respectively, to these SPEs. Our risk of loss related to these securitized receivables is limited to the amount of our over-collateralization in the transferred pool of receivables. At May 4, 2012, and February 3, 2012, the structured financing debt related to all of our secured borrowing securitization programs was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and the carrying amount of the corresponding financing receivables was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. We maintain an allowance to cover expected financing receivable credit losses and evaluate credit loss expectations based on our total portfolio. For the three months ended May 4, 2012 and April 29, 2011, the principal charge-off rate for our total portfolio was 4.1% and 5.3%, respectively. The credit quality mix of our financing receivables has improved in recent years due to our underwriting actions and as the mix of high quality commercial accounts in our portfolio has increased. The allowance for losses is determined based on various factors, including historical and anticipated experience, past due receivables, receivable type, and customer risk profile. At May 4, 2012, and February 3, 2012, the allowance for financing receivable losses was $192 million and $202 million, respectively. In general, the loss rates on our financing receivables for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 continued to improve over the prior year. However, we do not expect this same level of 45 Table of Contents improvement to continue given the stabilization we have seen in our loss rate over the past few quarters. We continue to monitor broader economic indicators and their potential impact on future loss performance. We have an extensive process to manage our exposure to customer risk, including active management of credit lines and our collection activities. Based on our assessment of the customer financing receivables, we believe that we are adequately reserved. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information about our financing receivables and the associated allowance. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements. 46 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL COMMITMENTS, AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS Current Market Conditions We regularly monitor economic conditions and associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. We consistently evaluate the financial health of our supplier base, carefully manage customer credit, diversify counterparty risk, and monitor the concentration risk of our cash and cash equivalents balances globally. We routinely monitor our financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign borrowers and counterparties, particularly in Europe in recent quarters. At May 4, 2012, our gross exposures to our customers and investments in Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece, and Spain were individually and collectively immaterial. We monitor credit risk associated with our financial counterparties using various market credit risk indicators such as credit ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies and changes in market credit default swap levels. We perform periodic evaluations of our positions with these counterparties and may limit exposure to any one counterparty in accordance with our policies. We monitor and manage these activities depending on current and expected market developments. We also use derivative instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures. We use a combination of forward contracts and purchased options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we use forward contracts to hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency. See Note 7 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for more information about our use of derivative instruments. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 2012, for further discussion of risks associated with adverse global economic conditions and instability, and our use of counterparties, and our ability to effectively hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Liquidity Cash generated from operations is our primary source of operating liquidity. In general, we seek to deploy our capital in a systematically prioritized manner focusing first on requirements for operations, then on growth investments, and finally on returns of cash to stockholders. Our strategy is to deploy capital from any potential source, whether internally generated cash or debt, depending on the adequacy and availability of that source of capital and whether it can be accessed in a cost effective manner. Demands on our domestic cash have increased as a result of our strategic initiatives. We believe that internally generated cash flows, which consist of operating cash flows, are sufficient to support our day-to-day business operations, both domestically and internationally, for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, while cash generated from operations is our primary source of operating liquidity, we use a variety of capital sources to fund the growth in our financing receivables, share repurchases and our needs for less predictable investing and financing decisions such as acquisitions. We have access to external sources of capital, including through issuances of long-term debt, which is rated as investment grade by independent rating agencies, and utilization of our commercial paper program. The following table summarizes our cash, marketable securities, and available borrowings as of May 4, 2012 and February 3, 2012: May 4, 2012 February 3, 2012 (in millions) Cash, cash equivalents, and investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 12,814 $ 13,852 Investments 4,402 4,370 Cash, cash equivalents, and investments $ 17,216 $ 18,222 Unsecured revolving credit facilities 3,000 3,000 Total cash, cash equivalents, investments, and available borrowings $ 20,216 $ 21,222 In addition, we have a currently effective shelf registration statement under which we may issue up to $3.5 billion of debt securities. Our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities primarily support our $2.5 billion commercial paper program. Of the credit facilities, $1.0 billion will expire on April 2, 2013, and $2.0 billion will expire on April 15, 2015. No amounts were outstanding under our revolving credit facilities as of May 4, 2012 , or February 3, 2012 . 47 Table of Contents Of our $17.2 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of May 4, 2012, $12.8 billion is classified as cash and cash equivalents. Our cash equivalents primarily consist of money market funds and commercial paper. The remaining $4.4 billion of investments is primarily invested in fixed income securities of varying maturities at the date of acquisition. The fair value of our portfolio can be affected by interest rate movements, credit, and liquidity risks. The objective of our investment policy and strategy is to manage our total cash and investments balances to preserve principal and maintain liquidity while maximizing the return on the investment portfolio through the full investment of available funds. We diversify our investment portfolio by investing in multiple types of investment-grade securities and through the use of third-party investment managers. A significant portion of our income is earned in non-U.S. jurisdictions. As such, we typically operate with 80% to 90% of our cash balances held outside of the U.S. Under current law, earnings available to be repatriated to the U.S. would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on these amounts for financial statement purposes, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed. When appropriate, we access our foreign cash balances in a tax efficient manner. Although there are uncertainties surrounding the global economic environment, due to the overall strength of our financial position, we believe that we currently have adequate access to capital markets. Any future disruptions or additional uncertainty or volatility in those markets may result in higher funding costs for us and could adversely affect our ability to obtain funds. The following table summarizes our outstanding debt as of May 4, 2012 and February 3, 2012: May 4, 2012 February 3, 2012 (in millions) Outstanding Debt Senior notes and debentures $ 6,391 $ 6,391 Structured financing debt 1,417 1,360 Commercial Paper 1,188 1,500 Other 3 3 Total debt $ 8,999 $ 9,254 During the three months ended May 4, 2012, total debt decreased $255 million, primarily due to a decrease in outstanding commercial paper. We have $1.0 billion in senior notes that will mature during the next twelve months. We expect to use a combination of cash from operations and our available borrowing resources to repay these maturing notes. We also issue structured financing-related debt to fund our financing receivables as discussed under Financing Receivables above. Our securitization programs are structured to operate near their debt capacity. As of May 4, 2012, we had $1.4 billion in outstanding structured financing securitization debt. We balance the use of our securitization programs with working capital and other sources of liquidity to fund growth in our financing receivables. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for further discussion of our structured financing debt. We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, the overall cost of capital, cash requirements for operations, and discretionary spending, including spending for acquisitions and share repurchases. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for further discussion of our debt. Our management team actively monitors the efficiency of our balance sheet under various macroeconomic and competitive scenarios. These scenarios quantify risks to the financial statements and provide a basis for actions necessary to ensure adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally, to support our acquisition and investment strategy, share repurchase activity and other corporate needs. 48 Table of Contents The following table contains a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the respective periods: Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 (in millions) Net change in cash from: Operating activities $ (138 ) $ 465 Investing activities (365 ) (1,549 ) Financing activities (532 ) 1,170 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (3 ) 62 Change in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,038 ) $ 148 Operating Activities Operating cash flows for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 decreased compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Cash used in operating activities during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was $138 million, compared to cash provided by operating activities of $465 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The decrease in operating cash flows from the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was primarily driven by a decrease in net income as well as unfavorable changes in working capital. See Key Performance Metrics below for additional discussion of our cash conversion cycle. Investing Activities Investing activities consist of the net of maturities and sales and purchases of investments; net capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment; and net cash used to fund strategic acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was $365 million compared to $1.5 billion during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The decrease in cash used in investing activities for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was primarily due to lower acquisition spending. Cash used to fund business acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was approximately $245 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 compared to $1.5 billion during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Financing Activities Financing activities primarily consist of proceeds and repayments from borrowings and the repurchase of our common stock. Cash used by financing activities for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was $532 million compared to cash provided by financing activities of $1.2 billion for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 was primarily due to net proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $1.5 billion in the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. In comparison, we did not issue or repay any long-term debt during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. In addition, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, we had a net repayment of $312 million related to commercial paper, while we did not issue or repay any commercial paper during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, we repurchased approximately 17 million shares of common stock for $300 million compared to approximately 31 million shares of common stock for $450 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. As of May 4, 2012, $5.7 billion remained available for future share repurchases. Key Performance Metrics Our cash conversion cycle for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 improved from the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Our business model allows us to maintain an efficient cash conversion cycle, which compares favorably with that of others in our industry. The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle for the three months ended May 4, 2012 and April 29, 2011: Three Months Ended May 4, 2012 April 29, 2011 Days of sales outstanding (a) 43 40 Days of supply in inventory (b) 12 10 Days in accounts payable (c) (87 ) (81 ) Cash conversion cycle (32 ) (31 ) _____________________ (a) Days of sales outstanding (DSO) calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on the ending net trade receivables and the most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO also includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in other current assets. DSO is calculated by adding accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and customer shipments in transit and dividing that sum by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (90 days). At May 4, 2012, and April 29, 2011, DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 39 and 4 days, and 37 and 3 days, respectively. 49 Table of Contents (b) Days of supply in inventory (DSI) measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DSI is based on ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DSI is calculated by dividing inventory by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). (c) Days in accounts payable (DPO) calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). The one day improvement from the prior year quarter was driven by a six day improvement in DPO, the effects of which were offset in part by a three day increase in DSO and a two day increase in DSI. The improvement in DPO was driven by the timing of payments in the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. The three day increase in DSO was due to a shift in the mix of receivables towards customers with longer payment terms. The two day increase in DSI was primarily attributable to the optimization of our supply chain, which required an increase in work-in-process inventory and an increase in strategic purchases of materials. We defer the cost of revenue associated with customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue until these shipments are delivered. These deferred costs are included in our reported DSO because we believe this reporting results in a more accurate presentation of our DSO and cash conversion cycle. These deferred costs are recorded in other current assets in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and totaled $522 million and $497 million, at May 4, 2012, and April 29, 2011, respectively. We believe that we can generate cash flow from operations in excess of net income over the long term and can operate our cash conversion cycle in the mid negative 30 day range. Capital Commitments Share Repurchase Program We have a share repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase shares of our common stock through a systematic program of open market purchases in order to increase shareholder value and manage dilution resulting from shares issued under our equity compensation plans. However, we do not currently have a policy that requires the repurchase of common stock to offset share-based compensation arrangements. For more information regarding our share repurchases, see Part II Item 2 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. Capital Expenditures During the first quarters of Fiscal 2013 and Fiscal 2012, we spent $142 million and $137 million, respectively, on property, plant, and equipment primarily in connection with our global expansion efforts and infrastructure investments made to support future growth. Product demand, product mix, and the increased use of contract manufacturers, as well as ongoing investments in operating and information technology infrastructure, influence the level and prioritization of our capital expenditures. Aggregate capital expenditures for Fiscal 2013, which will be primarily related to infrastructure investments and strategic initiatives, are currently expected to total approximately $600 million to $650 million. These expenditures will be primarily funded from our cash flows from operating activities. Purchase Obligations We utilize several suppliers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products. Our efficient supply chain management allows us to enter into flexible and mutually beneficial purchase arrangements with our suppliers in order to minimize inventory risk. Consistent with industry practice, we acquire raw materials or other goods and services, including product components, by issuing to suppliers authorizations to purchase based on our projected demand and manufacturing needs. 50 Table of Contents RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 51 Table of Contents