ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying Notes in the Company's Annual Report for the fiscal year ended January 29, 2016 and the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion contains forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs, and that are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements. Unless otherwise indicated, all results presented are prepared in in a manner that complies, in all material respects, with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Additionally, unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current-period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding fiscal period. Our fiscal year is the 52- or 53-week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. We refer to our fiscal years ended February 3, 2017 and January 29, 2016 as "Fiscal 2017" and "Fiscal 2016", respectively. Fiscal 2016 included 52 weeks. Fiscal 2017 will include 53 weeks, with the extra week to be included in the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2017. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this managements discussion and analysis to "we," "us," "our," "Denali," and "Denali Holding" mean Denali Holding Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries and references to Dell mean Dell Inc. and Dell Inc.s consolidated subsidiaries. On March 27, 2016, Dell entered into a definitive agreement with NTT Data International L.L.C. to sell substantially all of Dell Services, including the Dell Services Federal Government business, for cash consideration of approximately $3.1 billion. Dell Services includes process outsourcing, application management, and infrastructure services. The pending transaction does not include the global support, deployment, and professional services offerings. Accordingly, the results of operations of Dell Services have been excluded from the results of continuing operations in the periods presented in this management's discussion and analysis. INTRODUCTION We are a leading provider of scalable IT solutions enabling customers to be more efficient, mobile, informed, and secure. We built our reputation through listening to customers and developing solutions that meet their needs. Several years ago, we initiated a broad transformation of our company to become the leading provider of scalable information technology solutions. We are positioned to help customers of any size with the essential infrastructure to modernize IT and enable digital business, differentiated by our practical innovation and efficient, simple, and affordable solutions. Our announcement in October 2015 of our agreement to combine with EMC evidences our intention to accelerate this strategy over the coming years as we bring together two companies with complementary product portfolios, sales teams, and research and development strategies. We will continue to build superior customer relationships through our direct model and our network of channel partners, which includes value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers. We believe we can react quickly to customer needs, invest in strategic solutions, and expand our go-to-market sales and marketing capabilities. We will continue to build strong capabilities to create a leading global technology company poised for long-term sustainable growth and innovation. A key component of our strategic transformation is to continue shifting our product and solutions portfolio to offerings that provide higher-value and recurring revenue streams over time. As part of this strategy, we are continuing to expand and enhance our offerings through acquisitions and strategic investments that will complement our existing portfolio of solutions. As we innovate to make our customers existing IT increasingly productive, we help them reinvest their savings into the next generation of technologies that they need to succeed in the digital economy of a hyper-connected world. These solutions include digital transformation, software-defined data centers, hybrid cloud, converged and hyper-converged infrastructure, mobile, and security. In addition, our extended warranty and delivery offerings, and software and peripherals, which are closely tied to the sale of our hardware products, are important value differentiators that we are able to offer our customers. Our Client Solutions offerings are an important element of our strategy, and we believe the strategic expansion of this business is critical to our long-term success. We operate a diversified business model with the majority of our net revenue and operating income derived from commercial clients (large enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses, and public sector customers). We have a large global presence 41 Table of Contents across the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Asia, and other geographic regions with approximately 50% of our revenue coming from customers outside of the United States during the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016. We continue to view emerging markets, which include the vast majority of the worlds population, as a long-term growth opportunity. Accordingly, we continue to pursue the development of technology solutions that meet the needs of these markets. Products and Services We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell and support a wide range of products and services. We are organized into the following product and services business units, which are our reportable segments: Client Solutions, Enterprise Solutions Group, and Dell Software Group. Due to the planned divestiture of Dell Services, the results of this business have been excluded from this Management's Discussion and Analysis for all periods presented, except as otherwise indicated. See "Divestiture" below for more information regarding the sale of Dell Services. Client Solutions Client Solutions includes sales to our commercial and consumer customers of desktops, notebooks, thin clients, and third-party software and peripherals and services closely tied to the sale of Client Solutions hardware. Generally, over half of Client Solutions revenue is generated in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, referred to as EMEA, and Asia Pacific and Japan, referred to as APJ. Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG) ESG includes servers, networking, and storage, as well as services and third-party software and peripherals that are closely tied to the sale of ESG hardware. Generally, over half of ESG revenue is generated in the Americas, with the remaining portion derived from sales in EMEA and APJ. Dell Software Group (DSG) DSG includes systems management, security software solutions, and information management software offerings. DSG revenue is primarily derived from sales in the Americas and EMEA. We also offer or arrange various financing options and services for our commercial and consumer customers in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Mexico through DFS and its affiliates. DFS services include originating, collecting, and servicing customer receivables primarily related to the purchase of Dell products. The results of these operations are allocated to our segments based on the underlying product or service financed. On April 27, 2016, SecureWorks completed a registered underwritten initial public offering ("IPO") of its Class A common stock. Prior to the IPO, Denali owned indirectly, through Dell and Dell's subsidiaries, 100% of the outstanding equity interest in SecureWorks. Following the completion of the IPO, the non-controlling interest owned all of the SecureWorks Class A common stock outstanding, and Denali owned all of the SecureWorks Class B common stock outstanding. As of April 29, 2016 , Denali held approximately 86.8% of the outstanding equity interest in SecureWorks, which represented approximately 98.5% of the combined voting power of both classes of the SecureWorks common stock outstanding. The results of the SecureWorks operations are recorded in Corporate. See Note 12 and Note 15 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. For further discussion regarding our reportable segments, see "Results of Operations Product and Services Business Units." Business Trends and Challenges We are seeing an unprecedented rate of change in the IT industry, but our strategy remains focused on being a leading provider of scalable end-to-end technology solutions. We accelerate results for our customers by enabling them to be more efficient, mobile, informed, and secure. We continue to invest in R&D, sales, and other key areas of our business to deliver superior products and solution capabilities and to drive execution of long-term profitable growth. We believe that our results will improve over time in connection with the productivity initiatives directed at our salesforce and as a result of our differentiated products and solutions capabilities. We intend to continue to execute on our business model and seek to balance liquidity, profitability, and growth to position our company for long-term success. We are able to leverage our traditional strength in the PC market to offer solutions and services that provide higher value recurring revenue streams. The PC market has been challenged from a growth perspective over the last 18 months. We anticipate that the challenging demand environment will continue and expect intensifying market competition in Client Solutions, given the macroeconomic environment and computing trends. However, we are committed to a long-term growth strategy that will benefit from the consolidation trends that are occurring in the market. Our Client Solutions offerings remain 42 Table of Contents an important element of our strategy, generating strong cash flow and opportunities for cross-selling of complementary solutions. In addition, we expect our ESG business to continue to be impacted by declines in the traditional storage market, even as we continue to develop new solutions. We also continue to be impacted by the emerging trends of enterprises deploying software-defined storage, hyper-converged, and modular solutions based on server-centric architectures. We are actively building new capabilities and solutions given this trend. We believe that combining with EMC will complement and accelerate our overall position and strengthen our data center offerings. We manage our business on a U.S. dollar basis. However, we have a large global presence with approximately 50% of our revenue generated by sales to customers outside of the United States during the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016. Our revenues, therefore, can be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We utilize a comprehensive hedging strategy intended to mitigate the impact of foreign currency volatility over time, and we adjust pricing when possible to further minimize foreign currency impacts. EMC Merger Transaction As described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, on October 12, 2015, EMC, Denali, Dell, and Merger Sub entered into a merger agreement pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into EMC, with EMC surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Denali. Subject to the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, at the effective time of the EMC merger, each share of EMC common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the EMC merger (other than shares owned by Denali, Merger Sub, EMC, or any of EMCs wholly owned subsidiaries, and other than shares with respect to which EMCs shareholders are entitled to and properly exercise appraisal rights) automatically will be converted into the right to receive the merger consideration, consisting of (1) $24.05 in cash, without interest, and (2) a number of validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of Class V Common Stock equal to the quotient (rounded to the nearest five decimal points) obtained by dividing (A) 222,966,450 by (B) the aggregate number of shares of EMC common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the EMC merger, plus cash in lieu of any fractional shares. The merger agreement provides that each currently outstanding EMC stock option will vest and become fully exercisable for a reasonable period of time prior to 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the last trading day prior to the effective time of the EMC merger, referred to as the vesting effective time of the merger. Each EMC stock option that remains outstanding immediately prior to the vesting effective time of the merger will be automatically exercised immediately prior to the vesting effective time of the merger on a net exercise basis, such that shares of EMC common stock with a value equal to the aggregate exercise price and applicable tax withholding will reduce the number of shares of EMC common stock otherwise issuable. The merger agreement also provides that, except for a limited number of restricted stock units that may be granted following the date of the merger agreement and that will continue in effect as cash awards following the effective time of the merger, each EMC restricted stock unit outstanding immediately prior to the vesting effective time of the merger will become fully vested immediately prior to the vesting effective time of the merger (with performance vesting units vesting at the target level of performance) and the holder will become entitled to receive the merger consideration with respect to the shares of EMC common stock subject to the award (which will be calculated net of the number of shares withheld in respect of taxes upon the vesting of the award). The merger agreement provides that Denali may agree with individual award recipients to different equity treatment. No such agreements were in effect as of the date of this report. Also, in connection with the EMC merger, all principal, accrued but unpaid interest, fees, and other amounts (other than certain contingent obligations) outstanding at the effective time of the EMC merger under EMCs unsecured revolving credit facility, Dell Internationals asset-based revolving credit facility, and Dell Internationals term facilities, will be repaid in full substantially concurrently with the closing, and all commitments to lend and guarantees and security interests, as applicable, in connection therewith will be terminated and/or released. In connection with the EMC merger, Dell expects that the aggregate amounts of principal, interest and premium necessary to redeem in full the outstanding $1.4 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior First Lien Notes due 2020 co-issued by Dell International and Denali Finance Corp. will be deposited with the trustee for such notes, and that such notes will thereby be satisfied and discharged, substantially concurrently with the effective time of the EMC merger. Dell further expects that all of Dells and EMCs other outstanding senior notes and senior debentures will remain outstanding after the effective time of the EMC merger in accordance with their respective terms. 43 Table of Contents Denali expects to finance the EMC merger, the refinancing of certain of Dell Internationals and EMCs indebtedness outstanding as of the closing of the EMC merger, and the payment of related fees and expenses with up to $49.5 billion from debt financings and up to $4.25 billion of committed equity financing. Other than the recognition of certain expenses related to the EMC merger, there was no impact of the EMC merger on the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Divestiture On March 27, 2016, Dell entered into a definitive agreement with NTT Data International L.L.C. to sell substantially all of Dell Services for cash consideration of approximately $3.1 billion . Accordingly, the results of Dell Services are presented as discontinued operations in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income (Loss), and as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. Further, we have reclassified the related assets and liabilities as held for sale in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. We anticipate that the transaction will close in the third quarter of Fiscal 2017, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions, including approvals from regulatory authorities. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these discontinued operations. Going-Private Transaction On October 29, 2013, Dell was acquired by Denali in a merger transaction pursuant to an agreement and plan of merger, dated as of February 5, 2013, as amended. Denali is a Delaware corporation owned by Michael S. Dell and a separate property trust for the benefit of Mr. Dells wife, investment funds affiliated with Silver Lake Partners, the MSD Partners Funds, and certain members of Dells management and other investors. Mr. Dell serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Denali and Dell. 44 Table of Contents NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES In this management's discussion and analysis we use supplemental measures of our performance which are derived from our consolidated financial information but which are not presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. These non-GAAP financial measures include non-GAAP product net revenue; non-GAAP services net revenue; non-GAAP net revenue; non-GAAP product gross margin; non-GAAP services gross margin; non-GAAP gross margin; non-GAAP operating expenses; non-GAAP operating income; non-GAAP net income from continuing operations; non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations per share - diluted; earnings before interest and other, net, taxes, depreciation and amortization, referred to as EBITDA; and adjusted EBITDA. We use non-GAAP financial measures to supplement financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and better project our future consolidated financial performance as forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures will provide our stakeholders with useful information to help them evaluate our operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of our operating performance and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. In particular, we have excluded the impact of purchase accounting adjustments related to the going-private transaction. The going-private transaction was recorded using the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with the accounting guidance for business combinations. This guidance prescribes that the purchase price be allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on the estimated fair value of such assets and liabilities on the date of the transaction. All of our assets and liabilities were accounted for and recognized at fair value as of the transaction date, and the fair value adjustments are being amortized over the estimated useful lives in the periods following the transaction, while the ongoing business and operations did not change. As a result, we believe that excluding these adjustments provides results that are useful in understanding our operating performance, and aligns with how we manage our business. Excluding these adjustments also provides for more comparable operating results over the periods presented. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. Non-GAAP product net revenue, non-GAAP services net revenue, non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP product gross margin, non-GAAP services gross margin, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share, as defined by us, exclude the following items: the impact of purchase accounting, amortization of intangible assets, other corporate expenses, and for non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share, an aggregate adjustment for income taxes. As the excluded items have a material impact on our financial results, our management compensates for this limitation by relying primarily on GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP financial measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as a substitute for net revenue, gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, or net income prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. Reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure are presented below. We encourage you to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each of the periods presented. See the discussion below for more information on each of the excluded items as well as our reasons for excluding them from our non-GAAP results. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual. 45 Table of Contents The following is a summary of the items excluded from the most comparable GAAP financial measures to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures: Impact of Purchase Accounting The impact of purchase accounting includes purchase accounting adjustments recorded under the acquisition method of accounting, related to the going-private transaction. Purchase accounting adjustments primarily include fair value adjustments made to deferred revenue, inventory, and property, plant, and equipment which are recorded over time. We exclude these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures presented below to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets consists of amortization of customer relationships, developed technology and trade names. In connection with the going-private transaction, all of Denalis tangible and intangible assets and liabilities were accounted for and recognized at fair value on the transaction date. Accordingly, for the periods presented, amortization of intangible assets represents amortization associated with intangible assets recognized in connection with the going-private transaction. Amortization charges for purchased intangible assets are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisitions, and these charges may vary in amount from period to period. We exclude these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures presented below to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Other Corporate Expenses Other corporate expenses consists of the following items: Severance and facility action costs primarily related to severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to cost savings initiatives. Acquisition, integration, and divestiture related charges which are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of consulting and advisory services and retention payments. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, these charges include $56 million of operating expenses related to the pending EMC merger. Stock-based compensation expense associated with equity awards. Other corporate expenses vary from period to period and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in the future, we believe that eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures presented below facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Aggregate Adjustment for Income Taxes The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, this amount also includes tax charges of approximately $135 million on previously untaxed earnings of a foreign subsidiary that will no longer be permanently reinvested as a result of the Dell Services divestiture. The tax effects are determined based on the tax jurisdictions where the above items were incurred. Non-GAAP Adjustments Per Share This financial measure shows the cumulative impact of the above adjustments on earnings per share - diluted. 46 Table of Contents The table below presents a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP measure for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 % Change May 1, 2015 (in millions, except percentages) Product net revenue $ 10,322 (3 )% $ 10,660 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting (1 ) 1 Non-GAAP product net revenue $ 10,321 (3 )% $ 10,661 Services net revenue $ 2,212 2 % $ 2,178 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 79 146 Non-GAAP services net revenue $ 2,291 (1 )% $ 2,324 Net revenue $ 12,534 (2 )% $ 12,838 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 78 147 Non-GAAP net revenue $ 12,612 (3 )% $ 12,985 Product gross margin $ 1,435 19 % $ 1,204 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 12 13 Amortization of intangibles 124 121 Other corporate expenses 1 1 Non-GAAP product gross margin $ 1,572 17 % $ 1,339 Services gross margin $ 983 6 % $ 925 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 77 145 Amortization of intangibles Other corporate expenses 1 1 Non-GAAP services gross margin $ 1,061 (1 )% $ 1,071 Gross margin $ 2,418 14 % $ 2,129 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 89 158 Amortization of intangibles 124 121 Other corporate expenses 2 2 Non-GAAP gross margin $ 2,633 9 % $ 2,410 47 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 % Change May 1, 2015 (in millions, except percentages) Operating expenses $ 2,579 5 % $ 2,464 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting (18 ) (22 ) Amortization of intangibles (403 ) (408 ) Other corporate expenses (90 ) (36 ) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,068 4 % $ 1,998 Operating loss $ (161 ) 52 % $ (335 ) Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 107 180 Amortization of intangibles 527 529 Other corporate expenses 92 38 Non-GAAP operating income $ 565 37 % $ 412 Net loss from continuing operations $ (426 ) 11 % $ (476 ) Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 107 180 Amortization of intangibles 527 529 Other corporate expenses 92 35 Aggregate adjustment for income taxes 6 (137 ) Non-GAAP net income from continuing operations $ 306 134 % $ 131 Earnings (loss) from continuing operations per share - diluted $ (1.05 ) 10 % $ (1.17 ) Non-GAAP adjustments per share - diluted 1.79 1.49 Non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations per share - diluted $ 0.74 131 % $ 0.32 48 Table of Contents In addition to the above measures, we also use EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to provide additional information for evaluation of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA excludes purchase accounting adjustments related to the going-private transaction, severance and facility actions, acquisition, integration, and divestiture related costs, and stock-based compensation expense. We believe that due to the non-operational nature of the purchase accounting entries, it is appropriate to exclude these adjustments. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA provide more comparability between our historical results prior to the completion of the going-private transaction and historical results that reflect our capital structure upon the completion of the going-private transaction. As is the case with the non-GAAP measures presented above, users should consider the limitations of using EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA, including the fact that those measures do not provide a complete measure of our operating performance. EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA do not purport to be alternatives to net income as measures of operating performance or to cash flows from operating activities as a measure of liquidity. In particular, EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA are not intended to be a measure of free cash flow available for managements discretionary use, as these measures do not consider certain cash requirements, such as working capital needs, capital expenditures, contractual commitments, interest payments, tax payments, and other debt service requirements. Our management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are helpful in highlighting trends because they exclude the results of decisions that are outside the control of operating management and that can differ significantly from company to company depending on long-term strategic decisions regarding capital structure, the tax jurisdictions in which companies operate, and capital investments. The table below presents a reconciliation of EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA to net loss from continuing operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 % Change May 1, 2015 (in millions, except percentages) Net loss from continuing operations $ (426 ) 11 % $ (476 ) Adjustments: Interest and other, net (a) 205 179 Income tax provision (benefit) 60 (38 ) Depreciation and amortization 660 663 EBITDA $ 499 52 % $ 328 EBITDA $ 499 52 % $ 328 Adjustments: Stock based compensation expense 16 17 Impact of purchase accounting (b) 68 147 Other corporate expenses (c) 76 21 Adjusted EBITDA $ 659 28 % $ 513 ________________ (a) See "Results of Operations Interest and Other, Net" for more information on the components of interest and other, net. (b) This amount includes the non-cash purchase accounting adjustments related to the going-private transaction. (c) Consists of severance and facility action costs and acquisition, integration, and divestiture related costs. 49 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Results The following table summarizes our consolidated results from continuing operations for the three months ended April 29, 2016 and May 1, 2015 . Unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current-period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding fiscal period. Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 May 1, 2015 Dollars % of Net Revenue % Change Dollars % of Net Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Net revenue: Product $ 10,322 82.4 % (3 )% $ 10,660 83.0 % Services, including software related 2,212 17.6 % 2 % 2,178 17.0 % Total net revenue $ 12,534 100.0 % (2 )% $ 12,838 100.0 % Gross margin: Product $ 1,435 13.9 % 19 % $ 1,204 11.3 % Services, including software related 983 44.4 % 6 % 925 42.5 % Total gross margin $ 2,418 19.3 % 14 % $ 2,129 16.6 % Operating expenses $ 2,579 20.6 % 5 % $ 2,464 19.2 % Operating loss $ (161 ) (1.3 )% 52 % $ (335 ) (2.6 )% Net loss from continuing operations $ (426 ) (3.4 )% 11 % $ (476 ) (3.7 )% Earnings (loss) from continuing operations per share - diluted $ (1.05 ) N/A 10 % $ (1.17 ) N/A Other Financial Information Non-GAAP net revenue $ 12,612 N/A (3 )% $ 12,985 N/A Non-GAAP gross margin $ 2,633 20.9 % 9 % $ 2,410 18.6 % Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,068 16.4 % 4 % $ 1,998 15.4 % Non-GAAP operating income $ 565 4.5 % 37 % $ 412 3.2 % Non-GAAP net income from continuing operations $ 306 2.4 % 134 % $ 131 1.0 % EBITDA $ 499 4.0 % 52 % $ 328 2.5 % Adjusted EBITDA $ 659 5.2 % 28 % $ 513 4.0 % Non-GAAP earnings (loss) from continuing operations per share - diluted $ 0.74 N/A 131 % $ 0.32 N/A Non-GAAP net revenue, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income from continuing operations, EBITDA, adjusted EBITDA, and non-GAAP earnings (loss) from continuing operations per share - diluted are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Non-GAAP financial measures as a percentage of revenue are calculated based on non-GAAP net revenue. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" for information about these non-GAAP financial measures, including our reasons for including these measures, material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures, and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 50 Table of Contents Overview During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, our net revenue decreased 2% . Non-GAAP net revenue decreased 3% . The decreases in net revenue were attributable to lower revenue in our Client Solutions and ESG business units. Client Solutions contributed to most of the decrease in net revenue, driven by continued depressed global market demand for desktops and notebooks and strategic pricing decisions as a result of this environment. Client Solutions net revenue represented 68% and 69% of our total net revenue from continuing operations for the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, respectively. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, our operating loss was $161 million , compared to $335 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. Our operating loss includes purchase accounting adjustments associated with the going-private transaction, amortization of intangible assets, and other corporate expenses of $726 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, compared to $747 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. On a non-GAAP basis, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, operating income increased 37% to $565 million from $412 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. The decrease in operating loss and increase in non-GAAP operating income were primarily attributable to higher gross margin, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Cash used in operating activities was $63 million and $895 million during the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, respectively. The improvement in operating cash flows was primarily attributable to favorable changes in working capital. See "Liquidity, Capital Commitments, and Contractual Cash Obligations" for further information on our cash flow metrics. Net Revenue During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, our net revenue decreased 2% . Net revenue for the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016 includes the impact of $78 million and $147 million, respectively, in purchase accounting adjustments related to the going-private transaction. Our non-GAAP net revenue decreased 3% in the current quarter. The decreases in both net revenue and non-GAAP net revenue were primarily attributable to lower revenue in our Client Solutions and ESG business units. Product Net Revenue Product net revenue includes revenue from the sale of hardware products and Dell-owned software licenses. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , product revenue decreased 3% . Non-GAAP product revenue also decreased 3% . Client Solutions contributed to most of the decrease in product revenue during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, driven by overall continued depressed global market demand and resulting decisions around strategic pricing in this environment. ESG also contributed to the decrease in revenue in the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, driven by a decline in volume. Services Net Revenue, including software related Services net revenue, including software related, includes revenue from our services offerings, third-party software revenue, and support services related to Dell-owned software. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , revenue attributable to these services increased 2% , which was primarily attributable to the diminishing negative impact of purchase accounting adjustments which were $79 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , compared to $146 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . Non-GAAP net revenue attributable to services, including software related, decreased 1% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 . See "Products and Services Business Units" for further information regarding revenue from our products, services, and software offerings. From a geographical perspective, net revenue decreased in the Americas and EMEA during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 . Net revenue in APJ was relatively unchanged, with an increase in revenue from sales in China largely offset by decreases in revenue from sales in other APJ countries. Gross Margin During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, our total gross margin increased 14% to $2.4 billion , and our non-GAAP gross margin increased 9% to $2.6 billion . During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, our gross margin percentage increased 270 basis points to 19.3% , and our non-GAAP gross margin percentage increased 230 basis points to 20.9% . Our gross margin for the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016 included the effect of $0.2 billion and $0.3 billion , respectively, of purchase accounting adjustments and amortization of intangibles related to the going-private transaction. 51 Table of Contents Products During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, product gross margin dollars increased 19% and non-GAAP product gross margin dollars increased 17% . Product gross margin percentage increased 260 basis points to 13.9% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, while non-GAAP product gross margin percentage increased 260 bps to 15.2% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017. The increase in product gross margin and non-GAAP product gross margin in dollars and percentages was attributable to an increase in Client Solutions gross margin which improved primarily due to a favorable cost position. We will continue to manage our cost position in the prevailing demand environment. Services, including software related During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , our gross margin dollars for services, including software related, increased 6% , and services gross margin percentage increased 190 basis points to 44.4% . The increase in services gross margin dollars and percentage was primarily attributable to the diminishing negative impact of purchase accounting adjustments, which totaled $77 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , compared to $145 million in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . Non-GAAP gross margin dollars for services, including software related, decreased 1% , while non-GAAP services gross margin percentage increased 20 bps to 46.3% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 . Vendor Programs and Settlements Our gross margin is affected by our ability to achieve competitive pricing with our vendors and contract manufacturers, including through our negotiation of a variety of vendor rebate programs to achieve lower net costs for the various components we include in our products. Under these programs, vendors provide us with rebates or other discounts from the list prices for the components, which are generally elements of their pricing strategy. We account for vendor rebates and other discounts as a reduction in cost of net revenue. We manage our costs on a total net cost basis, which includes supplier list prices reduced by vendor rebates and other discounts. The terms and conditions of our vendor rebate programs are largely based on product volumes and are generally negotiated either at the beginning of the annual or quarterly period, depending on the program. The timing and amount of vendor rebates and other discounts we receive under the programs may vary from period to period, reflecting changes in the competitive environment. We monitor our component costs and seek to address the effects of any changes to terms that might arise under our vendor rebate programs. Our gross margins for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 were not materially affected by any changes to the terms of our vendor rebate programs, as the amounts we received under these programs were generally stable relative to our total net cost. We are not aware of any significant programmatic changes to vendor pricing or rebate programs that may impact our results in the near term. In addition, we have pursued legal action against certain vendors and are currently involved in negotiations with other vendors regarding their past pricing practices. We have negotiated settlements with some of these vendors and may have additional settlements in future quarters. These settlements are allocated to our segments based on the relative amount of affected vendor products used by each segment. No settlements were recorded in the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 that would have a material impact on product gross margins in the current quarter or affect comparability with product gross margin in the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. 52 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents information regarding our operating expenses during each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 May 1, 2015 Dollars % of Net Revenue % Change Dollars % of Net Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Operating expenses: Selling, general, and administrative $ 2,246 17.9 % 5 % $ 2,139 16.7 % Research, development, and engineering 333 2.7 % 2 % 325 2.5 % Total operating expenses $ 2,579 20.6 % 5 % $ 2,464 19.2 % Other Financial Information Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,068 16.4 % 4 % $ 1,998 15.4 % During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , our total operating expenses increased 5% . During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , we recognized $421 million and $430 million , respectively, in amortization of intangible assets and purchase accounting adjustments related to the going-private transaction. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, our total non-GAAP operating expenses increased 4% . Selling, General, and Administrative Selling, general, and administrative expenses, or SG&A expenses, increased 5% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 . The increases were primarily driven by compensation and benefits costs due to an increase in sales headcount, marketing costs, and outside services associated with the pending EMC merger transaction. We continue to actively manage our cost structure, which allows us to invest in strategic areas such as strengthening our sales force. Research, Development, and Engineering Research, development, and engineering expenses, or RD&E expenses, are primarily composed of personnel-related expenses related to product development. RD&E expenses were 2.7% of net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , compared to 2.5% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . Operating Income/Loss During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , operating loss was $161 million , compared to $335 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 . Operating loss includes amortization of intangible assets, purchase accounting adjustments, and other corporate expenses. Excluding these costs non-GAAP operating income during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 was $565 million , compared to $412 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. This favorability in operating income was attributable to higher gross margin primarily within Client Solutions, the effect of which was partially offset by the increase in operating expenses. 53 Table of Contents Interest and Other, Net The following table provides a detailed presentation of interest and other, net for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 May 1, 2015 (in millions) Interest and other, net: Investment income, primarily interest $ 9 $ 11 Gain (loss) on investments, net (3 ) Interest expense (163 ) (178 ) Foreign exchange (27 ) (4 ) Other (24 ) (5 ) Total interest and other, net $ (205 ) $ (179 ) During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , changes in interest and other, net were unfavorable by $26 million , primarily due to an increase in foreign exchange losses and other expenses. The increase in foreign exchange losses was attributable to an increase in trading costs and certain revaluations of un-hedged foreign currencies. Other expenses included the recognition of approximately $16 million of expense representing the fair value adjustment on the common stock purchase agreement with Temasek entered into in connection with the pending EMC merger transaction. See Note 3 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the common stock purchase agreement. The unfavorability in interest and other, net was offset partially by a decrease in interest expense from lower average debt balances over the current period. Income and Other Taxes Our effective income tax rate was -16.4% and 7.4% on pre-tax losses from continuing operations of $366 million and $514 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , respectively. The change in our effective income tax rate for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to charges of approximately $135 million on previous untaxed earnings of a foreign subsidiary that will no longer be permanently reinvested as a result of the Dell Services divestiture. See Note 2 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the Dell Services divestiture. The tax charge on the foreign subsidiary was offset in part by a higher mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions. The income tax rate for future quarters of Fiscal 2017 will be impacted by the actual mix of jurisdictions in which income is generated. Our effective tax rate can fluctuate depending on the geographic distribution of our world-wide earnings, as our foreign earnings are generally taxed at lower rates than in the United States. In certain jurisdictions, our tax rate is significantly less than the applicable statutory rate as a result of tax holidays. The majority of our foreign income that is subject to these tax holidays and lower tax rates is attributable to Singapore, China, and Malaysia. A significant portion of these income tax benefits is related to a tax holiday that will expire on January 31, 2017. We are currently seeking new terms for the affected subsidiary and it is uncertain whether any terms will be agreed upon. Our other tax holidays will expire in whole or in part during Fiscal 2019 through Fiscal 2023. Many of these tax holidays and reduced tax rates may be extended when certain conditions are met or may be terminated early if certain conditions are not met. The differences between our effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% principally resulted from the geographical distribution of taxable income discussed above and permanent differences between the book and tax treatment of certain items. We continue to assess our business model and its impact in various taxing jurisdictions. For further discussion regarding tax matters, including the status of income tax audits, see Note 10 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements . Net Income/Loss During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017, net loss decreased 11% to a net loss of $426 million . Net loss for the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016 includes amortization of intangible assets, purchase accounting adjustments, costs related to the 54 Table of Contents going-private transaction, and other corporate expenses. These costs totaled $726 million and $744 million for the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, respectively. Excluding these costs, non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 increased 134% to $306 million . The increase in non-GAAP net income for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 was primarily attributable to an increase in non-GAAP operating income. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information regarding our effective tax rate. 55 Table of Contents Product and Services Business Unit Results The Company's reportable segments are based on the following product and services business units: Client Solutions, Enterprise Solutions Group ("ESG"), Dell Software Group ("DSG"). A description of our three product and services business units is provided under "Introduction." See Note 15 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of net revenue by reportable segment to consolidated net revenue. Client Solutions: The following table presents net revenue and operating income attributable to Client Solutions for the respective periods: Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 % Change May 1, 2015 (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenue (a): Commercial $ 6,145 (4 )% $ 6,428 Consumer 2,426 (1 )% 2,441 Total Client Solutions net revenue $ 8,571 (3 )% $ 8,869 Operating Income: Client Solutions operating income $ 385 76 % $ 219 % of segment net revenue 4.5 % 2.5 % ____________________ (a) In the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , we redefined the categories within the Client Solutions business unit. None of these changes impacted our consolidated or total business unit results. Prior period amounts have been recast to provide comparability. Net Revenue During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , Client Solutions experienced a 3% decrease in net revenue primarily due to continued depressed global market demand for desktops and notebooks, and decisions around strategic pricing in this environment which particularly impacted commercial. Although commercial did experience a shift in demand from desktops to higher value notebooks, it was not sufficient to offset the overall revenue decline. From a geographical perspective, net revenue attributable to Client Solutions decreased across all regions during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , with net revenue from the Americas and EMEA representing most of the decline. Operating Income During the the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , operating income as a percentage of net revenue attributable to Client Solutions increased 200 basis points to 4.5%. This increase was driven by an increase in our gross margin percentage, offset partially by an increase in our operating expense percentage. The increase in our gross margin percentage was primarily a result of a favorable cost position, partially offset by a decline in net revenue due to strategic pricing decisions. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased over the period as a result of investments in our sales force to enhance efficiency and drive growth in future periods. 56 Table of Contents Enterprise Solutions Group: The following table presents net revenue and operating income attributable to ESG for the respective periods: Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 % Change May 1, 2015 (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenue: Servers and networking $ 3,075 (2 )% $ 3,152 Storage 538 (2 )% 550 Total ESG net revenue $ 3,613 (2 )% $ 3,702 Operating Income: ESG operating income $ 192 (20 )% $ 239 % of segment net revenue 5.3 % 6.5 % Net Revenue During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , ESG net revenue decreased 2% due to a decrease in net revenue from servers and networking. The decline was primarily attributable to a decrease in sales of PowerEdge server units, which was partially mitigated by an increase in average selling prices due to a shift to products with richer configurations. Net revenue from storage also decreased 2% . From a geographical perspective, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , ESG net revenue decreased in the Americas and EMEA, partially offset by an increase in net revenue in APJ. Operating Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , ESG operating income as a percentage of net revenue decreased 120 basis points to 5.3%. The decrease in ESG operating income percentage was driven by an increase in operating expense percentage due to higher sales and marketing costs. We continue to make investments in our sales force to enhance efficiency and drive growth in future periods. Dell Software Group: The following table presents net revenue and operating income attributable to DSG for the respective periods: Three Months Ended April 29, 2016 % Change May 1, 2015 (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenue: DSG net revenue $ 334 % $ 333 Operating Income: DSG operating income (loss) $ 28 204 % $ (27 ) % of segment net revenue 8.4 % (8.1 )% Net Revenue During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , net revenue attributable to DSG was relatively unchanged from the first quarter of Fiscal 2016. From a geographical perspective, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , DSG net revenue increased in the Americas, largely offset by net revenue decreases in EMEA and APJ. Operating Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , DSG operating income as a percentage of net revenue increased 1,650 basis points to an operating income percentage of 8.4%. This improvement was primarily attributable to a decrease in our operating expense percentage, driven by cost optimization across all functional areas. 57 Table of Contents Accounts Receivable We sell products and services directly to customers and through a variety of sales channels, including retail distribution. Our accounts receivable, net, was $5.1 billion as of both April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 . We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to cover receivables that may be deemed uncollectible. The allowance for losses is based on a provision for accounts that are collectively evaluated based on historical bad debt experience as well as specific identifiable customer accounts that are deemed at risk. As of April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 , the allowance for doubtful accounts was $44 million and $42 million, respectively. Based on our assessment, we believe that we are adequately reserved for expected credit losses. We monitor the aging of our accounts receivable and continue to take actions to reduce our exposure to credit losses. Dell Financial Services and Financing Receivables Dell Financial Services, referred to as DFS, offers a wide range of financial services, including originating, collecting, and servicing customer receivables primarily related to the purchase of Dell products. In some cases, we originate financing activities for our commercial customers related to the purchase of third-party technology products that complement our portfolio of products and services. New financing originations, which represent the amounts of financing provided by DFS to customers for equipment and related software and services, including third-party originations, were $ 0.8 billion and $0.9 billion for the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , respectively. As of April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 , our financing receivables, net were $5.0 billion and $5.1 billion , respectively. We have securitization programs to fund revolving loans and fixed-term leases and loans through consolidated special purpose entities, referred to as SPEs, which we account for as secured borrowings. We transfer certain U.S. customer financing receivables to these SPEs, whose purpose is to facilitate the funding of customer receivables through financing arrangements with multi-seller conduits that issue asset-backed debt securities in the capital markets and to private investors. During the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, we transferred $0.6 billion and $1.0 billion , respectively, to these SPEs. The structured financing debt related to all of our securitization programs included as secured borrowing was $2.8 billion as of both April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 . In addition, the carrying amount of the corresponding financing receivables was $3.3 billion as of both April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 . We maintain an allowance to cover expected financing receivable credit losses and evaluate credit loss expectations based on our total portfolio. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , the principal charge-off rate for our total portfolio was 2.2% and 2.7%, respectively. The credit quality mix of our financing receivables has improved in recent years due to our underwriting actions and as the mix of high-quality commercial accounts in our portfolio has increased. The allowance for losses is determined based on various factors, including historical and anticipated experience, past due receivables, receivable type, and customer risk profile. At April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 , the allowance for financing receivable losses was $165 million and $176 million , respectively. In general, the loss rates on our financing receivables have improved over the periods presented. We expect the loss rates in future periods to stabilize, with movements in these rates being primarily driven by seasonality and a continued shift in portfolio composition to lower risk commercial assets. We continue to monitor broader economic indicators and their potential impact on future loss performance. We have an extensive process to manage our exposure to customer credit risk, including active management of credit lines and our collection activities. We also sell selected fixed-term financing receivables to unrelated third parties on a periodic basis, primarily to manage certain concentrations of customer credit exposure. Based on our assessment of the customer financing receivables, we believe that we are adequately reserved. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our financing receivables and the associated allowance. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements. 58 Table of Contents MARKET CONDITIONS, LIQUIDITY, AND CAPITAL COMMITMENTS Market Conditions We regularly monitor economic conditions and associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. We consistently evaluate the financial health of our supplier base, carefully manage customer credit, diversify counterparty risk, and monitor the concentration risk of our cash and cash equivalents balances globally. We routinely monitor our financial exposure to borrowers and counterparties. We monitor credit risk associated with our financial counterparties using various market credit risk indicators such as credit ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies and changes in market credit default swap levels. We perform periodic evaluations of our positions with these counterparties and may limit exposure to any one counterparty in accordance with our policies. We monitor and manage these activities depending on current and expected market developments. We use derivative instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures. We use forward contracts and purchased options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we primarily use forward contracts and may use purchased options to hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our use of derivative instruments. The impact on our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of any credit adjustments related to our use of counterparties has been immaterial. Liquidity To support our ongoing business operations, we rely on operating cash flows as our primary source of liquidity. We monitor the efficiency of our balance sheet to ensure that we have adequate liquidity to support our strategic initiatives. In addition to internally generated cash, we have access to other capital sources to finance our strategic initiatives and fund growth in our financing operations. As of April 29, 2016 , we had $6.1 billion of total cash and cash equivalents, substantially all of which was held outside of the United States. Our strategy is to deploy capital from any potential source, whether internally generated cash or debt, depending on the adequacy and availability of that source of capital and whether it can be accessed in a cost-effective manner. A significant portion of our income is earned in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Under current law, earnings available to be repatriated to the United States would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on these amounts for financial statement purposes, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the United States. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed. The following table summarizes our cash and cash equivalents as well as our available borrowings as of April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 : April 29, 2016 January 29, 2016 (in millions) Cash and cash equivalents, and available borrowings: Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,139 $ 6,576 Remaining available borrowings under the asset-backed credit line ("ABL Credit Facility") 1,622 1,676 Total cash, cash equivalents, and available borrowings $ 7,761 $ 8,252 The maximum aggregate borrowings under the ABL Credit Facility are approximately $2.0 billion . Borrowings under the ABL Credit Facility are subject to a borrowing base, which consists of certain receivables and inventory. Available borrowings under the ABL Credit Facility are reduced by draws on the facility as well as outstanding letters of credit. As of April 29, 2016 , there were no draws on the facility and, after taking into account outstanding letters of credit, our available capacity totaled $1.6 billion . 59 Table of Contents To finance the going-private transaction, we issued $13.9 billion in debt, which included borrowings under our Term Loan Facilities and the ABL Credit Facility, proceeds from the sale of Senior First Lien Notes and other notes, and borrowings under structured financing debt programs. See Note 1 and Note 5 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the going-private transaction and our outstanding borrowings. The following table summarizes our outstanding debt as of April 29, 2016 and January 29, 2016 : April 29, 2016 January 29, 2016 (in millions) Outstanding Debt: Term loan facilities and Senior First Lien Notes $ 7,559 $ 7,623 Unsecured notes and debentures 2,453 2,853 Structured financing debt 3,405 3,411 Other 62 93 Total debt, principal amount 13,479 13,980 Carrying value adjustments (335 ) (349 ) Total debt, carrying value $ 13,144 $ 13,631 During the first three months ended April 29, 2016 , we repaid $0.5 billion of debt, which primarily consisted of $0.4 billion of maturing Unsecured Notes and Debentures and $0.1 billion of Term Loan facilities. Our requirements for cash to pay principal and interest have increased significantly due to the incremental borrowings we incurred to finance the going-private transaction. We may, at our sole discretion, purchase, redeem, prepay, refinance, or otherwise retire our outstanding indebtedness under the terms of such indebtedness, in open market or negotiated transactions with the holders of such indebtedness, or otherwise. We balance the use of our securitization programs with working capital and other sources of liquidity to fund growth in our global financial services business. Of the $ 13.5 billion in outstanding principal debt as of April 29, 2016 , $4.4 billion, which includes $3.4 billion in structured financing debt, is used to fund this business. In connection with the proposed EMC merger transaction, we will enter into new senior secured credit facilities, new term loan facilities and other credit facilities, in addition to our existing borrowings. We will maintain our securitization programs to fund revolving loans and fixed-term leases and loans through SPEs. We expect to make available at least $2.95 billion of cash on hand to be utilized to consummate the transaction, which may result in a need to repatriate cash from foreign jurisdictions. While no final plan for repatriation of cash has been developed as it relates to this transaction, we do not expect to incur material tax or other costs as a result of any such repatriation. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, along with cash that will be provided by future operations, and borrowings expected to be available under the ABL Credit Facility, will be sufficient to fund our operations, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, payments for shares subject to the appraisal proceedings, and any tax audit settlements described in Note 9 and Note 10 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements , respectively, over at least the next twelve months. We also believe that we will have sufficient cash to fund the closing of the proposed EMC merger transaction. 60 Table of Contents Cash Flows The following table contains a summary of our Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the respective periods: Three months ended April 29, 2016 May 1, 2015 (in millions) Net change in cash from: Operating activities $ (63 ) $ (895 ) Investing activities (60 ) (83 ) Financing activities (387 ) 358 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 73 (4 ) Change in cash and cash equivalents $ (437 ) $ (624 ) Operating Activities Cash used by operating activiti es was $63 million and $895 million for the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016, respectively. The improvement in operating cash flows was primarily due to favorable changes in working capital, in particular a decrease in accounts receivable, net due to stronger collections performance. Additionally, we benefited from the lower impact of incentive compensation payments in the first quarter of Fiscal 2017. Investing Activities Investing activities primarily consist of capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment, collections on purchased financing receivables, and proceeds from sale of facilities, land and other assets. Cash used in investing activities was $60 million and $83 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 and the first quarter of Fiscal 2016, respectively, which included $19 million and $22 million, respectively, in capital expenditures attributable to Dell Services. Financing Activities Financing activities primarily consist of the proceeds and repayments of debt. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2017 , cash used in financing activities was $0.4 billion , as we repaid $0.4 billion in maturing Unsecured Notes and Debentures and $0.1 billion in Term Loan facilities and related foreign currency derivative settlements. These repayments of debt were partially offset by $0.1 billion in contributions from offering proceeds received upon closing of the SecureWorks IPO. In comparison, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2016 , cash provided by financing activities was $0.4 billion as we issued $0.6 billion, net, in additional structured financing debt and repaid $0.2 billion in Term Loan facilities and related foreign currency derivative settlements. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our securitization programs, and Note 5 of the Notes to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our debt. 61 Table of Contents Key Performance Metrics We derived the components of our cash conversion cycle for the periods presented using balances and results of operations which include Dell Services. We will continue to evaluate and present our cash conversion cycle inclusive of Dell Services until we complete the divestiture. The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle for the periods presented: Three months ended April 29, 2016 January 29, 2016 Days of sales outstanding (a) 42 40 Days of supply in inventory (b) 14 14 Days in accounts payable (c) (107 ) (106 ) Cash conversion cycle (d) (51 ) (52 ) __________________ (a) Days of sales outstanding, referred to as DSO, calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on the ending net trade receivables, adjusted to include accounts receivable, net classified as held for sale, and the most recent quarterly non-GAAP net revenue, adjusted to include discontinued operations, for each period. DSO also includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in other current assets. DSO is calculated by adding accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and customer shipments in transit and dividing that sum by average non-GAAP net revenue per day for the current quarter (90 days for all fiscal quarters presented herein). At April 29, 2016 , DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 38 and 4 days, respectively. At January 29, 2016 , DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 36 and 4 days, respectively. (b) Days of supply in inventory, referred to as DSI, measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products. DSI is based on ending inventory and most recent quarterly non-GAAP cost of goods sold, adjusted to include discontinued operations, for each period. DSI is calculated by dividing ending inventory by average non-GAAP cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days for all fiscal quarters presented herein). (c) Days in accounts payable, referred to as DPO, calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable, adjusted to include accounts payable classified as held for sale, and most recent quarterly non-GAAP cost of goods sold, adjusted to include discontinued operations, for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average non-GAAP cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days for all fiscal quarters presented herein). (d) We calculate our cash conversion cycle using non-GAAP net revenue, adjusted to include discontinued operations, and non-GAAP cost of goods sold, adjusted to include discontinued operations, because we believe that excluding certain items from the GAAP results facilitates management's understanding of this key performance metric. 62 Table of Contents The tables below provide reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure used in calculating the DSO, DSI and DPO metrics: Three months ended April 29, 2016 January 29, 2016 (in millions) Net revenue $ 12,534 $ 12,979 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting 78 96 Non-GAAP net revenue 12,612 13,075 Net revenue attributable to discontinued operations 674 703 Impact of purchase accounting attributable to discontinued operations 4 Non-GAAP net revenue, adjusted to include discontinued operations $ 13,286 $ 13,782 Cost of goods sold $ 10,116 $ 10,491 Non-GAAP adjustments: Impact of purchase accounting (11 ) (15 ) Amortization of intangibles (124 ) (120 ) Other corporate expenses (2 ) (3 ) Non-GAAP cost of goods sold 9,979 10,353 Cost of goods sold attributable to discontinued operations 541 571 Impact of purchase accounting attributable to discontinued operations 12 12 Other corporate expenses attributable to discontinued operations 9 Non-GAAP cost of goods sold, adjusted to include discontinued operations $ 10,541 $ 10,936 April 29, 2016 January 29, 2016 (in millions) Accounts receivable, net $ 5,075 $ 5,092 Accounts receivable, net classified as held for sale 454 443 Accounts receivable, net, adjusted to included accounts receivable held for sale $ 5,529 $ 5,535 Accounts payable 12,412 12,761 Accounts payable, net classified as held for sale 138 173 Accounts payable, net, adjusted to included accounts receivable held for sale $ 12,550 $ 12,934 For the three months ended April 29, 2016 , changes in our cash conversion cycle were unfavorable by one day when compared to the three months ended January 29, 2016 . This was driven by a two day increase in DSO primarily due to the timing of revenue recognition during the period. The increase in DSO was partially offset by a one day improvement in DPO, while DSI remained effectively unchanged. We believe our business model allows us to maintain an efficient cash conversion cycle, which compares favorably with that of others in our industry. 63 Table of Contents Capital Commitments Capital Expenditures During the first quarters of Fiscal 2017 and Fiscal 2016 , w e spent $92 million and $114 million, respectively, on property, plant, and equipment, which included $19 million and $22 million, respectively, attributable to Dell Services. These expenditures were primarily incurred in connection with our global expansion efforts and infrastructure investments made to support future growth. Product demand, product mix, and the increased use of contract manufacturers, as well as ongoing investments in operating and information technology infrastructure, influence the level and prioritization of our capital expenditures. Aggregate capital expenditures for Fiscal 2017 , which will be primarily related to infrastructure investments and strategic initiatives, are currently expected to total approximately $0.5 billion. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligations are defined as contractual obligations to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on us. These obligations specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations do not include contracts that may be canceled without penalty. We utilize several suppliers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products. Our efficient supply chain management allows us to enter into flexible and mutually beneficial purchase arrangements with our suppliers in order to minimize inventory risk. Consistent with industry practice, we acquire raw materials or other goods and services, including product components, by issuing to suppliers authorizations to purchase based on our projected demand and manufacturing needs. These purchase orders are typically fulfilled within 30 days and are entered into during the ordinary course of business in order to establish best pricing and continuity of supply for our production. Purchase orders are not included in the table above as they typically represent our authorization to purchase rather than binding purchase obligations. 64 Table of Contents