ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All percentage amounts and ratios presented in this management's discussion and analysis were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Unless otherwise indicated, all changes identified for the current-period results represent comparisons to results for the prior corresponding fiscal periods. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. The fiscal year ending January 31, 2014 ("Fiscal 2014 ") will be a 52 week period. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this managements discussion and analysis to we, us, our and Dell mean Dell Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. This managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2013 , and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes included in that report. INTRODUCTION We are a leading global information technology company that offers our customers a broad range of products and services. We built our reputation through listening to customers and developing solutions that meet their needs. We believe that aligning our corporate structure with our product and services business units will allow us to better serve and demonstrate our scalable end-to-end solutions capabilities to our customers and execute our strategy. Accordingly, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, we completed the reorganization of our reportable segments from the customer-centric segments we maintained through Fiscal 2013 to reportable segments based on the following product and services business units: End-User Computing (EUC), the Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG), the Dell Software Group, and Dell Services. We began managing and reporting in this new structure in the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. See below for more information on our current reportable segments: End-User Computing ("EUC") EUC includes desktop PCs, thin client products, notebooks, tablets, third-party software, and EUC-related peripherals. Enterprise Solutions Group ("ESG") ESG includes servers, networking, storage, and ESG-related peripherals. Dell Software Group The Dell Software Group includes systems management, security, and information management software offerings. Dell Services Dell Services includes a broad range of IT and business services, including support and deployment services, infrastructure, cloud, and security services, and applications and business process services. For further discussion regarding our segments, see "Results of Operations - Segment Discussion" in this Management's Discussion and Analysis and Note 14 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I - Item 1 - Financial Statements. A few years ago, we initiated a broad transformation of the company to become a leading provider of scalable end-to-end technology solutions, and we remain focused on this strategy. A key component of this transformation is to continue shifting our portfolio to products and services that provide higher-value and recurring revenue streams over time. As part of this strategy, we are expanding our ESG, software, and services offerings. We believe the most attractive areas for profitable growth in this business include data center and information management, cloud computing, and software. Our EUC offerings also continue to be an important element of our strategic transformation, and we believe the strategic and profitable expansion of our EUC offerings is critical to our long-term success. To complement this strategy, since the beginning of Fiscal 2012, we have completed a significant number of acquisitions that bring many new capabilities to Dell in areas such as scalable storage solutions, application migration, and software. We completed several of these acquisitions in Fiscal 2013, including our acquisitions of SonicWALL Inc. ("SonicWALL"), Wyse Technology, Inc., and Quest Software Inc ("Quest Software"). The comparability of our results of operations for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2013 is affected by these acquisitions, although the impact is not material. On February 5, 2013, we announced that we had signed a definitive agreement and plan of merger to be acquired by Denali Holding Inc., a Delaware corporation owned by Michael S. Dell, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and founder of Dell, and investment funds affiliated with Silver Lake Partners, a global private equity firm. For more information on this proposed transaction, see Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I - Item 1 - Financial Statements. 36 Table of Contents Presentation of Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures In this management's discussion and analysis, we use supplemental measures of our performance, which are derived from our consolidated financial information but which are not presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). These financial measures, which are considered non-GAAP financial measures under SEC rules, include our non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share. See Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for more information and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 37 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 May 4, 2012 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except per share amounts and percentages) Net revenue: Product $ 10,902 77.5 % (5 )% $ 11,423 79.2 % Services, including software related 3,172 22.5 % 6 % 2,999 20.8 % Total net revenue $ 14,074 100.0 % (2 )% $ 14,422 100.0 % Gross margin: Product $ 1,658 15.2 % (21 )% $ 2,093 18.3 % Services, including software related 1,089 34.3 % 12 % 974 32.5 % Total gross margin $ 2,747 19.5 % (10 )% $ 3,067 21.3 % Operating expenses $ 2,521 17.9 % 12 % $ 2,243 15.6 % Operating income $ 226 1.6 % (73 )% $ 824 5.7 % Net income $ 130 0.9 % (79 )% $ 635 4.4 % Earnings per share - diluted $ 0.07 N/A (81 )% $ 0.36 N/A Other Financial Information (a) Non-GAAP gross margin $ 2,899 20.6 % (8 )% $ 3,167 22.0 % Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,309 16.4 % 7 % $ 2,157 15.0 % Non-GAAP operating income $ 590 4.2 % (42 )% $ 1,010 7.0 % Non-GAAP net income $ 372 2.6 % (51 )% $ 761 5.3 % Non-GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.21 N/A (51 )% $ 0.43 N/A ____________________ (a) Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for more information and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Overview During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, our total net revenue decreased 2%, driven by a decline in revenue from End-User Computing, which was partially offset by an increase in revenue from our Enterprise Solutions Group and the Dell Software Group. Results attributable to our Dell Software Group include our Fiscal 2013 software acquisitions, which primarily consist of Quest Software and SonicWALL. Our EUC business continues to be impacted by an overall decline in the industry, a competitive pricing environment, and competition from alternative mobile solutions. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, net revenue from our EUC segment decreased 9%, driven by a decline in mobility revenue, as we continued to experience a weakened demand environment in this business. Results attributable to our other segments were more favorable, led by a 10% increase in revenue from ESG. This increase was driven by strong revenue growth from our data center servers during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. Approximately 2% of total segment revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 was attributable to our Fiscal 2013 software acquisitions. Revenue from Dell Services increased 2% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 due to an increase in revenue from infrastructure, cloud, and security services. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, our consolidated operating income as a percentage of net revenue decreased 410 basis points to 1.6%. EUC operating income as a percentage of net revenue decreased 400 basis points to 2.5% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, as we continued to face a competitive environment and adjusted our pricing strategy to invest in growth 38 Table of Contents in advance of planned reductions in our cost structure. As we continued to invest in our software capabilities with additional sales capacity and spending for research, development, and engineering activities, the Dell Software Group generated an operating loss percentage of 28.7% for the first three months of Fiscal 2014. These declines were partially offset by improved operating income percentages from our ESG and Dell Services segments. Operating income as a percentage of revenue for ESG and Dell Services increased 160 basis points and 130 basis points to 4.4% and 17.6%, respectively. In aggregate, operating income from ESG, the Dell Software Group, and Dell Services represented approximately 65% of total segment operating income for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, compared to 39% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. As of May 3, 2013 , we had $13.2 billion of total cash, cash equivalents, and investments and $7.2 billion in total debt. In comparison, as of February 1, 2013 , we had $15.3 billion of total cash, cash equivalents, and investments and $9.1 billion in total debt. Cash used in operating activities were $39 million and $138 million for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, respectively. During the first three months of Fiscal 2014, we continued to maintain an efficient cash conversion cycle as well as strong cash and investment positions. We believe that we can generate cash flow from operations in excess of net income over the long term. We continue to expect relatively weak demand in our EUC business and market competitiveness. However, we believe the EUC business is an important component of our overall strategy. We recognize that our transformation to a leading provider of scalable end-to-end technology solutions will take more time and investment, and we are making investments and continuing to execute various cost savings initiatives that we believe will benefit our long-term profitability and cash flow. In the long-run, we believe that we will profitably grow revenue and operating income through the expansion of our enterprise solutions, services, and software businesses and the strategic extension of our EUC offerings. Revenue Product Revenue Product revenue decreased 5% during the first three months of Fiscal 2014, driven by a decline in revenue attributable to our EUC segment, which was partially offset by an increase in revenue from our ESG segment. Services Revenue, including software related Services revenue, including software related, includes revenue from Dell Services, third-party software revenue, and support services related to Dell-owned software offerings. These services increased 6% during the first three months of Fiscal 2014, driven by support services from Dell-owned software offerings, due to our Fiscal 2013 software acquisitions. Software related services, including third-party offerings, represented 34% and 31% of services revenue for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, respectively. Services revenue, excluding software related, increased 2% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. See "Segment Discussion" below for further information regarding product revenue and revenue from the Dell Software Group and Dell Services. During the first three months of Fiscal 2014, revenue from outside the U.S. decreased 6%, while revenue from the U.S. increased 2%. Revenue from outside the U.S. represented 50% of total net revenue for the first three months of Fiscal 2014, compared to 52% for the first three months of Fiscal 2013. Revenue from most emerging countries declined during the first three months of Fiscal 2014. We continue to view these geographical markets, which include the vast majority of the world's population, as a long-term growth opportunity. Accordingly, we continue to pursue development of technology solutions that meet the needs of these markets. We manage our business on a U.S. dollar basis and factor foreign currency exchange rate movements into our pricing decisions. In addition, we utilize a comprehensive hedging strategy intended to mitigate the impact of foreign currency volatility over time. As a result of our hedging programs, the impact of foreign currency movements was not material to our total net revenue for the first three months of Fiscal 2014. Gross Margin Products During the first three months of Fiscal 2014, product gross margins decreased in dollars and in gross margin percentage. Product gross margin percentage decreased from 18.3% to 15.2% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. The decline in product gross margins was primarily attributable to our EUC segment, where we continued to face a competitive environment and adjusted our pricing strategy to invest in growth in advance of planned reductions in our cost structure. Services, including software related During the first three months of Fiscal 2014, our gross margin for services, including software related, increased in absolute dollars and in gross margin percentage. Our gross margin percentage for services, including software related, increased from 32.5% to 34.3% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. This increase was driven by higher gross margin percentages from services attributable to the Dell Software Group. 39 Table of Contents During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, our total gross margin decreased 10% to $2.7 billion on a GAAP basis and 8% to $2.9 billion on a non-GAAP basis. Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013 includes the effects of amortization of intangible assets and of severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges. As set forth in the reconciliation under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below, these items are excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP gross margin for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013. Amortization of intangible assets included in GAAP gross margin increased 58% to $140 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. This increase was primarily attributable to an increase in purchased intangible assets over the period. Vendor Programs and Settlements Our gross margin is affected by our ability to achieve competitive pricing with our vendors and contract manufacturers, including through our negotiation of a variety of vendor rebate programs to achieve lower net costs for the various components we include in our products. Under these programs, vendors provide us with rebates or other discounts from the list prices for the components, which are generally elements of their pricing strategy. Vendor rebate programs are only one element of the costs we negotiate for our product components. We account for vendor rebates and other discounts as a reduction in cost of net revenue. Our total net cost includes supplier list prices reduced by vendor rebates and other discounts. We manage our costs on a total net cost basis. The terms and conditions of our vendor rebate programs are largely based on product volumes and are generally not long-term in nature, but instead are typically negotiated at the beginning of each quarter. Because of the fluid nature of these ongoing negotiations, which reflect changes in the competitive environment, the timing and amount of vendor rebates and other discounts we receive under the programs may vary from period to period. We monitor our component costs and seek to address the effects of any changes to terms that might arise under our vendor rebate programs. Our gross margins for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013 were not materially affected by any changes to the terms of our vendor rebate programs, as the amounts we received under these programs were generally stable relative to our total net cost. We are not aware of any significant programmatic changes to vendor pricing or rebate programs that may impact our results in the near term. In addition, we have pursued legal action against certain vendors and are currently involved in negotiations with other vendors regarding their past pricing practices. We have negotiated settlements with some of these vendors and may have additional settlements in future quarters. These settlements are allocated to our segments based on the relative amount of affected vendor products used by each segment. Our gross margins for the first quarters of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013 were not affected by negotiated vendor settlements. Operating Expenses The following table presents information regarding our operating expenses for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 May 4, 2012 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Operating expenses: Selling, general, and administrative $ 2,208 15.7 % 10 % $ 2,009 13.9 % Research, development, and engineering 313 2.2 % 34 % 234 1.7 % Total operating expenses $ 2,521 17.9 % 12 % $ 2,243 15.6 % Other Financial Information Non-GAAP operating expenses (a) $ 2,309 16.4 % 7 % $ 2,157 15.0 % (a) For a reconciliation of non-GAAP operating expenses to operating expenses prepared in accordance with GAAP, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Selling, General, and Administrative During the first three months of Fiscal 2014, selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased 10%, driven by costs associated with our proposed merger and an increase in compensation-related expenses during the period. Compensation-related expenses, excluding severance and special performance-based 40 Table of Contents retention cash awards granted in the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, increased 7% during the first three months of Fiscal 2014, due to our Fiscal 2013 acquisitions. Research, Development, and Engineering During the first three months of Fiscal 2014, research, development, and engineering expenses were 2.2% of net revenue compared to 1.7% for the same period in the prior year. This increase was driven by investments in our software capabilities. Total operating expenses for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 increased 12% to $2.5 billion on a GAAP basis and 7% to $2.3 billion on a non-GAAP basis. Operating expenses on a GAAP basis for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013 include the effects of amortization of intangible assets and of severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges. In addition, operating expenses on a GAAP basis for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 include expenses associated with the proposed merger, which include transaction costs as well as special performance-based retention cash awards granted to certain key employees in the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 (the "Merger-Related Costs"). As set forth in the reconciliation under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below, all of these costs are excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP operating expenses for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013. In aggregate, these charges increased $126 million to $212 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. This increase was primarily attributable to the Merger-Related Costs, which impacted operating expenses by $86 million during the first three months of Fiscal 2014. Operating and Net Income Operating Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, operating income dollars and percentage declined 73% and 410 basis points, respectively, on a GAAP basis, and 42% and 280 basis points, respectively, on a non-GAAP basis. The decrease in non-GAAP operating income percentage was driven by declines in product gross margin percentage, primarily attributable to EUC, the effects of which were partially offset by improved gross margin percentages for services, including software related. In addition, operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. Operating income on a GAAP basis for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 includes increases in amortization of intangibles as well as the Merger-Related Costs. Net Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, net income decreased 79% to $130 million on a GAAP basis and 51% to $372 million on a non-GAAP basis. Net income on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis was impacted by a decrease in operating income. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use non-GAAP financial measures to supplement financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of our segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of our underlying operating performance. We also believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows management to better project our future consolidated financial performance because forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures will provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate our operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of our operating performance, and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report include non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by us, represent the comparable GAAP measures adjusted to exclude severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges, amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions, and the Merger-Related Costs. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share also includes the aggregate adjustment for income taxes related to the exclusion of the above items. For more information on each of these items and our reasons for excluding them, see the discussion below. In future fiscal periods, we may exclude such items and may incur income and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that these items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility actions, acquisition-related costs, and other charges that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Our management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying primarily on GAAP results 41 Table of Contents and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP financial measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as a substitute for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. See below for reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. We encourage you to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each of the periods presented. The following is a summary of the costs and other items excluded from the most comparable GAAP financial measures to calculate non-GAAP financial measures: Severance and Facility Actions and Acquisition-related Costs - Severance and facility action costs are primarily related to facilities charges, including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to cost synergies related to strategic acquisitions and actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs. Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, and other costs. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of employees, consulting expenses, and, for acquisitions made prior to Fiscal 2013, costs related to full-time employees who were working on the integration. Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of these events. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in the future, we believe that eliminating these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures presented below facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Amortization of Intangible Assets - Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, acquired technology, non-compete covenants, and trade names purchased in connection with business acquisitions. We incur charges related to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Amortization charges for purchased intangible assets are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisitions. Accordingly, these charges may vary in amount from period to period. We exclude these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures presented below to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Other Items - We also adjust our GAAP financial results for the Merger-Related Costs, which consist of transaction expenses associated with the proposed merger as well as expenses associated with special performance-based retention cash awards granted to certain key employees in the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. Transaction expenses include professional fees incurred by us in connection with the proposed merger as well as the reimbursement of transaction-related expenses incurred by certain participants approved by a Special Committee of the Board of Directors. We are excluding these expenses for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures presented below because we believe these items are outside our ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance or comparisons to our past operating performance. Aggregate Adjustment for Income Taxes - The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the tax jurisdictions where the above items were incurred. 42 Table of Contents The table below presents a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most comparable GAAP measure for each of the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 % Change May 4, 2012 (in millions, except per share amounts and percentages) GAAP gross margin $ 2,747 (10 )% $ 3,067 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 140 88 Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs 10 12 Other 2 Non-GAAP gross margin $ 2,899 (8 )% $ 3,167 GAAP operating expenses $ 2,521 12 % $ 2,243 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles (56 ) (22) Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs (70 ) (64) Other (86 ) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,309 7 % $ 2,157 GAAP operating income $ 226 (73 )% $ 824 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 196 110 Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs 80 76 Other 88 Non-GAAP operating income $ 590 (42 )% $ 1,010 GAAP net income $ 130 (79 )% $ 635 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 196 110 Severance and facility actions and acquisition-related costs 80 76 Other 88 Aggregate adjustment for income taxes (122 ) (60) Non-GAAP net income $ 372 (51 )% $ 761 GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.07 (81 )% $ 0.36 Non-GAAP adjustments per share - diluted 0.14 0.07 Non-GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.21 (51 )% $ 0.43 43 Table of Contents Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 May 4, 2012 Percentage of Total Net Revenue GAAP gross margin 19.5 % 21.3 % Non-GAAP adjustments 1.1 % 0.7 % Non-GAAP gross margin 20.6 % 22.0 % GAAP operating expenses 17.9 % 15.6 % Non-GAAP adjustments (1.5 )% (0.6 )% Non-GAAP operating expenses 16.4 % 15.0 % GAAP operating income 1.6 % 5.7 % Non-GAAP adjustments 2.6 % 1.3 % Non-GAAP operating income 4.2 % 7.0 % GAAP net income 0.9 % 4.4 % Non-GAAP adjustments 1.7 % 0.9 % Non-GAAP net income 2.6 % 5.3 % Segment Discussion During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, we completed the reorganization of our reportable segments from the customer-centric segments we maintained through Fiscal 2013 to reportable segments based on the following four product and services business units: End-User Computing (EUC) Enterprise Solutions Group (ESG) Dell Software Group Dell Services We began managing and reporting in this new structure in the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. Our EUC segment includes desktop PCs, thin client products, notebooks, tablets, third-party software, and EUC-related peripherals, while our ESG segment includes servers, networking, storage, and ESG-related peripherals. The Dell Software Group includes systems management, security, and information management software offerings. Dell Services includes a broad range of IT and business services, including support and deployment services, infrastructure, cloud, and security services, and applications and business process services. Our measure of segment operating income for management reporting purposes excludes amortization of intangible assets, severance and facility action costs and acquisition-related charges, unallocated corporate expenses, and the Merger-Related Costs. In aggregate, these costs were $419 million and $226 million for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, respectively. This increase was driven by the Merger-Related Costs as well as an increase in amortization of intangible assets during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. In addition, segment results include internal revenue transactions, which primarily consist of origination fees related to the sale of extended warranty services within EUC and ESG. See Note 14 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information and a reconciliation of segment revenue and operating income to consolidated revenue and operating income. 44 Table of Contents End-User Computing: The following table presents revenue and operating income attributable to our EUC segment for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 % Change May 4, 2012 (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenue: Desktops and thin client $ 3,273 (2 )% $ 3,335 Mobility 3,618 (16 )% 4,328 Third-party software and peripherals 2,029 (6 )% 2,169 Total EUC revenue $ 8,920 (9 )% $ 9,832 Operating Income: EUC operating income $ 224 (65 )% $ 639 % of segment revenue 2.5 % 6.5 % During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, EUC experienced a 9% decrease in net revenue, driven by a 16% decline in revenue from our mobility products. This decrease was attributable to a 20% decline in unit sales resulting from the weakened demand environment. This decrease was partially offset by a 5% increase in average selling prices during the period, as we experienced a mix shift towards our higher-value mobility offerings. Mobility revenue continues to be impacted by an overall decline in the industry, a competitive pricing environment, and competition from alternative mobile solutions. Revenue from desktop PCs and thin client products decreased 2% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. This decline was driven by a 4% decrease in unit sales and a 1% decline in average selling prices for desktops during the period. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, revenue from third-party software and peripherals decreased 6%, as we experienced a decrease in unit sales of our EUC offerings, which limited the sales volume of third-party software and peripherals. At a regional level, EUC revenue declined across all regions during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, led by a decline in revenue from Asia Pacific and Japan ("APJ"). During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, EUC's operating income as a percentage of revenue decreased 400 basis points to 2.5%. This decrease was primarily attributable to declines in gross margin percentages for our products, as we continued to face a competitive environment and adjusted our pricing strategy to invest in growth in advance of planned reductions in our cost structure. Enterprise Solutions Group: The following table presents revenue and operating income attributable to our ESG segment for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 % Change May 4, 2012 (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenue: Servers, peripherals, and networking $ 2,669 14 % $ 2,343 Storage 424 (10 )% 473 Total ESG revenue $ 3,093 10 % $ 2,816 Operating Income: ESG operating income $ 136 71 % $ 79 % of segment revenue 4.4 % 2.8 % During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, ESG experienced a 10% increase in net revenue, driven by a 14% increase in revenue from servers, peripherals, and networking. In particular, we experienced strong revenue growth from our data center solutions offerings during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, average selling prices for our servers increased 16%, due to a mix shift towards our new-generation servers, while demand for our servers was essentially 45 Table of Contents unchanged. This increase was partially offset by a 10% decline in storage revenue during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, as we continued to optimize our storage solutions and improve our sales structure. At a regional level, ESG revenue increased across all regions during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, led by an increase in revenue from the U.S. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, ESG's operating income as a percentage of revenue increased 160 basis points to 4.4%. This increase was primarily attributable to a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue that resulted from a decline in SG&A expenses. This improvement in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue was partially offset by reduced gross margin percentages for our products. Dell Software Group: The following table presents revenue and operating income attributable to the Dell Software Group for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 , which include the results of Dell's Fiscal 2013 software acquisitions from their respective acquisition dates: Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 % Change May 4, 2012 (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenue: Dell Software Group revenue $ 295 NM $ 38 Operating Income: Dell Software Group operating loss $ (85 ) NM $ (6 ) % of segment revenue (28.7 )% (16.0 )% During Fiscal 2013, we completed several software acquisitions, including our acquisitions of Quest Software and SonicWALL. Substantially all of the results attributable to the Dell Software Group for the first three months of Fiscal 2014 are related to these acquisitions. The Dell Software Group includes systems management, security, and information management software offerings. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, the Dell Software Group delivered $295 million in revenue and incurred an operating loss of $85 million, which represents an operating loss percentage of 28.7%, as we continued to make investments in additional sales capacity and research, development, and engineering activities. Revenue attributable to the Dell Software Group is primarily derived from sales in the U.S. and Western Europe. We are continuing to enhance our software capabilities, as we believe that software will continue to play an increasingly important role in our strategy to become a leading provider of scalable end-to-end technology solutions. Dell Services: The following table presents revenue and operating income attributable to Dell Services for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 % Change May 4, 2012 (in millions, except percentages) Net Revenue: Support and Deployment $ 1,202 2 % $ 1,176 Infrastructure, cloud, and security services 612 11 % 550 Applications and business process services 295 (15 )% 347 Total Dell Services revenue $ 2,109 2 % $ 2,073 Operating Income: Dell Services operating income $ 370 10 % $ 338 % of segment revenue 17.6 % 16.3 % 46 Table of Contents During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, Dell Services experienced a 2% increase in net revenue, driven by an 11% increase in revenue from our infrastructure, cloud, and security offerings due to an increase in contract signings in recent periods. In addition, revenue from support and deployment services, which consist of support and extended warranty services, enterprise installation, and configuration services, increased 2% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. These increases were partially offset by a 15% decrease in revenue from applications and business process services, driven by a Fiscal 2013 divestiture and select contract expirations, as we continue to work to improve the profitability of this business. Although we experienced declines in unit sales of our EUC offerings during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, we are continuing to enhance our portfolio of value-added attached services. At a regional level, the increase in Dell Services revenue was driven by an increase in revenue from APJ. Revenue from EMEA increased slightly, while revenue attributable to the Americas declined slightly. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, operating income as a percentage of revenue attributable to Dell Services increased 130 basis points to 17.6%. This increase was primarily attributable to a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, due to improvements in our cost structure. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, deferred services revenue decreased 2% when compared to the balance as of February 1, 2013. In addition, during the same period, services backlog decreased 3% to $8.4 billion as of May 3, 2013, compared to $8.7 billion as of February 1, 2013. We provide information regarding services backlog because we believe it provides useful trend information regarding changes in the size of our services business over time. See "Part II Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Revenue by Product and Services Categories Services" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2013, for more information on our services backlog calculation. 47 Table of Contents Interest and Other, Net The following table provides a detailed presentation of interest and other, net for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 May 4, 2012 (in millions) Interest and other, net: Investment income, primarily interest $ 19 $ 29 Gains on investments, net 1 6 Interest expense (63 ) (69 ) Foreign exchange (19 ) 10 Other (6 ) (8 ) Interest and other, net $ (68 ) $ (32 ) During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, changes in interest and other, net were unfavorable by $36 million, when compared to the same period in Fiscal 2013. This change was primarily attributable to foreign exchange losses incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, due to higher costs associated with our hedging program and revaluations of certain un-hedged foreign currencies. In addition, investment income decreased during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2013, due to the decline in the size of our investment portfolio. 48 Table of Contents Income and Other Taxes Our effective income tax rate was 17.6% and 19.8% for the first quarters of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013 , respectively. The decrease in our effective income tax rate for the three months ended May 3, 2013, was primarily attributable to the increase in permanent differences as a relative percentage of pre-tax income. In addition, pre-tax income for the three months ended May 3, 2013 includes the Merger-Related Costs, which were primarily incurred in higher tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can fluctuate depending on the geographic distribution of our world-wide earnings, as our foreign earnings are generally taxed at lower rates than in the U.S. In certain jurisdictions, our tax rate is significantly less than the applicable statutory rate as a result of tax holidays. The majority of our foreign income that is subject to these tax holidays and lower tax rates is attributable to Singapore, China, and Malaysia. Our significant tax holidays expire in whole or in part during fiscal years 2016 through 2022. The differences between our effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% principally resulted from the geographical distribution of taxable income discussed above and permanent differences between the book and tax treatment of certain items. We continue to assess our business model and its impact in various taxing jurisdictions. For further discussion regarding tax matters, including the status of income tax audits, see Note 12 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements." ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE We sell products and services directly to customers and through a variety of sales channels, including retail distribution. Our accounts receivable, net was $6.4 billion and $6.6 billion as of May 3, 2013 , and February 1, 2013 , respectively, which represents a 3% decrease. The decrease in accounts receivable, net was primarily due to a decline in revenue in the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, compared to the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2013. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to cover receivables that may be deemed uncollectible. The allowance for losses is based on specific identifiable customer accounts that are deemed at risk and a provision for accounts that are collectively evaluated based on historical bad debt experience. As of May 3, 2013 , and February 1, 2013 , the allowance for doubtful accounts was $73 million and $72 million, respectively. Based on our assessment, we believe we are adequately reserved for expected credit losses. We monitor the aging of our accounts receivable and continue to take actions to reduce our exposure to credit losses. DELL FINANCIAL SERVICES AND FINANCING RECEIVABLES Dell Financial Services ("DFS") offers a wide range of financial services, including originating, collecting, and servicing customer receivables primarily related to the purchase of Dell products. In some cases, we may originate financing activities for our commercial customers related to the purchase of third-party technology products that complement our portfolio of products and services. New financing originations, which represent the amounts of financing provided by DFS to customers for equipment and related software and services, including third-party originations, were $719 million and $812 million for the first quarters of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, respectively. At May 3, 2013 , and February 1, 2013 , our net financing receivables balances were $4.4 billion and $4.6 billion, respectively. To support the financing needs of our customers internationally, we have aligned with a select number of third-party financial services companies. During Fiscal 2012, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire CIT Vendor Finance's Dell-related financing assets portfolio and sales and servicing functions in Europe for approximately $500 million. Subject to customary closing, regulatory, and other conditions, we expect to complete this transaction during the second half of Fiscal 2014. In connection with this transaction, we have filed an application for a bank license with The Central Bank of Ireland to facilitate ongoing financing offerings in Europe, and we are expecting it to be approved by the end of the second quarter of Fiscal 2014. We have securitization programs to fund revolving loans and fixed-term leases and loans through consolidated special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which we account for as secured borrowings. We transfer certain U.S. customer financing receivables to these SPEs, whose purpose is to facilitate the funding of customer receivables through financing arrangements with multi-seller conduits that issue asset-backed debt securities in the capital markets. During the first quarters of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, we transferred $534 million and $536 million, respectively, to these SPEs. Our risk of loss related to these securitized receivables is limited to the amount of our over-collateralization in the transferred pool of receivables. At May 3, 2013 , and February 1, 2013 , the structured financing debt related to all of our secured borrowing securitization programs was $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively, and the net carrying amount of the corresponding financing receivables was $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. 49 Table of Contents We maintain an allowance to cover expected financing receivable credit losses and evaluate credit loss expectations based on our total portfolio. For the first quarters of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, the principal charge-off rate for our total portfolio was 3.8% and 4.1%, respectively. The credit quality mix of our financing receivables has improved in recent years due to our underwriting actions and as the mix of high-quality commercial accounts in our portfolio has increased. The allowance for losses is determined based on various factors, including historical and anticipated experience, past due receivables, receivable type, and customer risk profile. At May 3, 2013 , and February 1, 2013 , the allowance for financing receivable losses was $179 million and $192 million, respectively. We expect the loss rates in the coming quarters to stabilize with movements in these rates being primarily driven by seasonality and a continued shift in portfolio composition to lower risk commercial assets. We continue to monitor broader economic indicators and their potential impact on future loss performance. We have an extensive process to manage our exposure to customer risk, including active management of credit lines and our collection activities. We also sell selected fixed-term financing receivables to unrelated third parties on a periodic basis, primarily to manage certain concentrations of customer credit exposure. Based on our assessment of the customer financing receivables, we believe that we are adequately reserved. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information about our financing receivables and the associated allowance. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements. 50 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL COMMITMENTS, AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS Current Market Conditions We regularly monitor economic conditions and associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. We consistently evaluate the financial health of our supplier base, carefully manage customer credit, diversify counterparty risk, and monitor the concentration risk of our cash and cash equivalents balances globally. We routinely monitor our financial exposure to both sovereign and non-sovereign borrowers and counterparties. We monitor credit risk associated with our financial counterparties using various market credit risk indicators such as credit ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies and changes in market credit default swap levels. We perform periodic evaluations of our positions with these counterparties and may limit exposure to any one counterparty in accordance with our policies. We monitor and manage these activities depending on current and expected market developments. We also use derivative instruments to hedge certain foreign currency exposures. We use forward contracts and purchased options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted transactions denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, we use forward contracts and purchased options to hedge monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for more information about our use of derivative instruments. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 1, 2013 , for further discussion of risks associated with adverse global economic conditions and instability, our use of counterparties, and our ability to effectively hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 of any credit adjustments related to these counterparties has been immaterial. Liquidity Our strategy is to deploy capital from any potential source, whether internally generated cash or debt, depending on the adequacy and availability of that source of capital and whether it can be accessed in a cost effective manner. In general, we seek to deploy our capital in a systematically prioritized manner, focusing first on requirements for operations, then on growth investments, and finally on returns of cash to stockholders. While cash generated from operations is our primary source of operating liquidity, we use a variety of capital sources, such as our available borrowings, to fund the growth in our financing receivables, fund our needs for less predictable strategic initiatives, and return capital to stockholders. The merger agreement for our proposed merger transaction, described in Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements, places certain limitations on the amount of debt we can assume and on our use of cash, including our application of cash to repurchase shares, declare quarterly dividends in excess of $0.08 per share, and pursue significant business acquisitions. During Fiscal 2014, subsequent to the announcement of the proposed merger, our credit rating was downgraded by all three major credit rating agencies. One of these agencies downgraded our credit rating to below investment grade, which significantly limits our ability to access the commercial paper market. If the proposed merger is not consummated, our credit rating may continue to be impacted, which will prolong our more limited access to the capital markets. We believe that internally generated cash flows, which consist of operating cash flows, are sufficient to support our day-to-day business operations, both domestically and internationally, for at least the next 12 months. 51 Table of Contents As of May 3, 2013 , we had $13.2 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and investments, substantially all of which was held outside of the U.S. We access our foreign cash balances in a tax efficient manner when appropriate. The following table summarizes our cash, investments, and available borrowings as of May 3, 2013 , and February 1, 2013 : May 3, 2013 February 1, 2013 (in millions) Cash, cash equivalents, and investments: Cash and cash equivalents $ 10,419 $ 12,569 Investments 2,789 2,773 Cash, cash equivalents, and investments 13,208 15,342 Unsecured revolving credit facilities 2,000 3,000 Total cash, cash equivalents, investments, and available borrowings $ 15,208 $ 18,342 We have senior unsecured revolving credit facilities primarily to support our commercial paper program, although we may use the borrowings under these facilities for other corporate purposes. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, $1.0 billion of our senior unsecured revolving credit facilities expired, and we did not renew this program. No amounts were outstanding under our revolving credit facilities as of May 3, 2013 , or February 1, 2013 . Of our $13.2 billion of cash, cash equivalents, and investments as of May 3, 2013 , $10.4 billion is classified as cash and cash equivalents. Our cash equivalents primarily consist of money market funds and certificates of deposit. The remaining $2.8 billion of investments is primarily invested in fixed income securities of varying maturities at the date of acquisition. The fair value of our portfolio can be affected by interest rate movements, credit risk, and liquidity risks. The objective of our investment policy and strategy is to manage our total cash and investments balances to preserve principal and maintain liquidity while maximizing the return on the investment portfolio through the full investment of available funds. We diversify our investment portfolio by investing in multiple types of investment-grade securities and through the use of third-party investment managers. A significant portion of our income is earned in non-U.S. jurisdictions. Under current law, earnings available to be repatriated to the U.S. would be subject to U.S. federal income tax, less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on these amounts for financial statement purposes, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed. The following table summarizes our outstanding debt as of May 3, 2013 , and February 1, 2013 : May 3, 2013 February 1, 2013 (in millions) Outstanding Debt Senior notes and debentures $ 5,388 $ 5,988 Structured financing debt 1,453 1,288 Commercial paper 405 1,807 Other 2 2 Total debt $ 7,248 $ 9,085 During the three months ended May 3, 2013 , total debt decreased $1.8 billion, primarily due to the repayment of $1.4 billion in outstanding commercial paper and $600 million in maturing senior notes. We have $ 1.7 billion in senior notes that will mature during the next twelve months. We expect to use a combination of cash from operations, existing cash balances, and our available borrowing resources to repay these maturing notes. We also issue structured financing-related debt to fund our financing receivables as discussed under Financing Receivables above. As of May 3, 2013 , we had $1.5 billion in outstanding structured financing securitization debt. Our securitization programs are structured to operate near their debt capacity and are generally effective for 6 to12 months. We balance the use of our securitization programs with working capital and other sources of liquidity to fund growth in our financing receivables. See Note 4 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for further discussion of our structured financing debt. Under the merger agreement, we may not incur debt under these programs of more than $1.5 billion outstanding at any time. 52 Table of Contents We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels, subject to the limitations under the merger agreement, based upon cash flow expectations, the overall cost of capital, cash requirements for operations, and discretionary spending, including spending for permitted business acquisitions and permitted dividend payments. See Note 5 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for further discussion of our debt. Our management actively monitors the efficiency of our balance sheet under various macro-economic and competitive scenarios. These scenarios quantify risks to the financial statements and provide a basis for actions necessary to ensure adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally, to support our strategic initiatives, return capital to stockholders, and fund other corporate needs. The following table contains a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 May 4, 2012 (in millions) Net change in cash from: Operating activities $ (39 ) $ (138 ) Investing activities (137 ) (365 ) Financing activities (1,957 ) (532 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (17 ) (3 ) Change in cash and cash equivalents $ (2,150 ) $ (1,038 ) Operating Activities Cash used in operations was $39 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, compared to $138 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. This improvement in operating cash flows was primarily driven by favorable changes in working capital, which was largely offset by a decrease in net income. Investing Activities Investing activities primarily consist of the sales and purchases of investments, net of maturities, capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment, and cash used to fund strategic acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities was $137 million and $365 million during the first three months of Fiscal 2014 and Fiscal 2013, respectively. The overall decrease in cash used in investing activities was driven by lower spending on business acquisitions during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, compared to the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. Financing Activities Financing activities primarily consist of proceeds and repayments from borrowings and the repurchase of our common stock. Cash used in financing activities during the first three months of Fiscal 2014 was $2.0 billion compared to $532 million for the first three months of Fiscal 2013. This increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily attributable to the repayment of $1.4 billion in outstanding commercial paper during the first three months of Fiscal 2014, compared to a net repayment of $312 million in outstanding commercial paper during the first three months of Fiscal 2013. In addition, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014, we repaid $600 million in maturing senior notes. In comparison, we did not issue or repay any long-term debt during the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. These increases in cash used in financing activities were slightly mitigated by a decrease in share repurchases during the first three months of Fiscal 2014, compared to the same period in Fiscal 2013. During the first three months of Fiscal 2013, we repurchased approximately 17 million shares of common stock for $300 million. In comparison, during the first three months of Fiscal 2014, we did not repurchase any shares of common stock. During the second quarter of Fiscal 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy. In accordance with this policy, we paid a $142 million dividend to our stockholders during the first quarter of Fiscal 2014. Key Performance Metrics Our cash conversion cycle for the first quarter of Fiscal 2014 contracted slightly from the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. Our business model allows us to maintain an efficient cash conversion cycle, which compares favorably with that of others in our industry. 53 Table of Contents The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle for the three months ended May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 : Three Months Ended May 3, 2013 May 4, 2012 Days of sales outstanding (a) 45 43 Days of supply in inventory (b) 11 12 Days in accounts payable (c) (87 ) (87 ) Cash conversion cycle (31 ) (32 ) _____________________ (a) Days of sales outstanding (DSO) calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on the ending net trade receivables and the most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO also includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in other current assets. DSO is calculated by adding accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and customer shipments in transit and dividing that sum by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (90 days). At May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 , DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 41 and 4 days, and 39 and 4 days, respectively. (b) Days of supply in inventory (DSI) measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DSI is based on ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DSI is calculated by dividing inventory by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). (c) Days in accounts payable (DPO) calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). The one day contraction in our cash conversion cycle from the prior year quarter was driven by a two day increase in DSO, the effects of which were largely offset by a one day improvement in DSI. The two day increase in DSO was attributable to a shift in the mix of receivables towards customers with longer payment terms, while the one day improvement in DSI was driven by a reduction in strategic purchases from the first quarter of Fiscal 2013. We defer the cost of revenue associated with customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue until these shipments are delivered. These deferred costs are included in our reported DSO because we believe this reporting results in a more accurate presentation of our DSO and cash conversion cycle. These deferred costs are recorded in other current assets in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and totaled $626 million and $522 million, at May 3, 2013 , and May 4, 2012 , respectively. Capital Commitments Share Repurchase Program We have a share repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase shares of our common stock through a systematic program of open market purchases in order to increase stockholder value and manage dilution resulting from shares issued under our equity compensation plans. However, we do not currently have a policy that requires the repurchase of common stock to offset share-based compensation arrangements. We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during the first three months of Fiscal 2014, as the merger agreement, discussed above, prohibits us from engaging in additional share repurchases. As of May 3, 2013, $5.3 billion remained authorized for future share repurchases. Dividend Program On June 12, 2012, we announced that our Board of Directors adopted a dividend policy under which we have paid quarterly dividends of $0.08 per share since the third quarter of Fiscal 2013. The cash dividend policy and the declaration and payment of each quarterly cash dividend will be subject to the Board's continuing determination that the policy and the declaration of dividends thereunder are in the best interest of our stockholders and are in compliance with applicable law. The Board of Directors retains the power to modify, suspend, or cancel our dividend policy in any manner and at any time that it may deem necessary or appropriate in the future. Under the merger agreement, we may not pay dividends with a quarterly rate greater than the rate of $0.08 per share authorized under our current dividend policy. Capital Expenditures D uring the first quarters of Fiscal 2014 and 2013, we spent $158 million and $142 million, respectively, on property, plant, and equipment primarily in connection with our global expansion efforts and infrastructure investments made to support future growth. Product demand, product mix, and the increased use of contract manufacturers, as well as ongoing investments in operating and information technology infrastructure, influence the level and prioritization of our capital expenditures. Aggregate capital expenditures for Fiscal 2014, which are primarily related to infrastructure investments and strategic initiatives, are currently expected to total approximately $500 million. These expenditures will be primarily funded from our cash flows from operating activities. Purchase Obligations We utilize several suppliers to manufacture sub-assemblies for our products. Our efficient supply chain management allows us to enter into flexible and mutually beneficial purchase arrangements with our suppliers in 54 Table of Contents order to minimize inventory risk. Consistent with industry practice, we acquire raw materials or other goods and services, including product components, by issuing to suppliers authorizations to purchase based on our projected demand and manufacturing needs. 55 Table of Contents RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1 of the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for a description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. 56 Table of Contents