Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Business Unit Results. Dell Financial Services Dell Financial Services and its affiliates (DFS) support our businesses by offering and arranging various financing options and services for our customers in North America, Europe, Australia, and New Zealand. DFS originates, collects, and services customer receivables primarily related to the purchase of our product, software, and service solutions. We also arrange financing for some of our customers in various countries where DFS does not currently operate as a captive. DFS further strengthens our customer relationships through its flexible consumption models, which enable us to offer our customers the option to pay over time and, in certain cases, based on utilization, providing them with financial flexibility to meet their changing technological requirements. The results of these operations are allocated to our segments based on the underlying product or service financed. For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Research and Development We focus on developing scalable technology solutions that incorporate highly desirable features and capabilities at competitive prices. We employ a collaborative approach to product design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design innovative solutions and work with a global network of technology companies to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products. We manage our research and development (R&D) spending by targeting those innovations and products that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by relying on the capabilities of our strategic relationships. Through this collaborative, customer-focused approach, we strive to deliver new and relevant products to the market quickly and efficiently. Additionally, from time to time, we make strategic investments in publicly-traded and privately-held companies that develop software, hardware, and other technologies or provide services supporting our technologies. VMware represents a significant portion of our R&D activities and has assembled an experienced group of developers with compute, storage, management, hybrid and public cloud, networking and security, traditional, cloud native and SaaS applications, digital workspace and mobility, container and open source software expertise. VMware also has strong ties to leading academic institutions around the world and invests in joint research with many such institutions. Product development efforts are prioritized through a combination of engineering-driven innovation and customer- and market-driven feedback. Dell Technologies has a global R&D presence, with total R&D expenses of $4.6 billion , $4.4 billion , and $2.6 billion for Fiscal 2019, Fiscal 2018, and Fiscal 2017, respectively. These investments reflect our commitment to R&D activities that ultimately support our mission: to help our customers build their digital future and to transform IT. 7 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Materials We own manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Malaysia, China, Brazil, India, Poland, and Ireland. See Item 2 Properties for information about our manufacturing and distribution facilities. We also utilize contract manufacturers throughout the world to manufacture or assemble our products under the Dell Technologies brand as part of our strategy to enhance our variable cost structure and to achieve our goals of generating cost efficiencies, delivering products faster, better serving our customers, and enhancing our world-class supply chain. Our manufacturing process consists of assembly, software installation, functional testing, and quality control. We conduct operations utilizing a formal, documented quality management system to ensure that our products and services satisfy customer needs and expectations. Testing and quality control are also applied to components, parts, sub-assemblies, and systems obtained from third-party suppliers. Our quality management system is maintained through the testing of components, sub-assemblies, software, and systems at various stages in the manufacturing process. Quality control procedures also include a burn-in period for completed units after assembly, ongoing production reliability audits, failure tracking for early identification of production and component problems, and information from customers obtained through services and support programs. This system is certified to the ISO 9001 International Standard that includes most of our global sites that design, manufacture, and service our products. Our order fulfillment, manufacturing, and test facilities in Massachusetts, North Carolina, and Ireland are certified to the ISO 14001 International Standard for environmental management systems and also have achieved OHSAS 18001 certification, an international standard for facilities with world-class safety and health management systems. These internationally-recognized endorsements of ongoing quality and environmental management are among the highest levels of certifications available. We also have implemented Lean Six Sigma and 7S (Customer, Safety, Quality, Delivery, Cost, Team, and Green) methodologies to ensure that the quality of our designs, manufacturing, test processes, and supplier relationships are continually improved. We maintain a robust Supplier Code of Conduct, actively manage recycling processes for our returned products, and are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Smartway Transport Partner. We purchase materials, supplies, product components, and products from a large number of qualified suppliers. In some cases, where multiple sources of supply are not available, we rely on single-source or a limited number of sources of supply if we believe it is advantageous to do so because of performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. We believe that any disruption that may occur because of our dependence on single- or limited-source vendors would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Our Industry Reliance on vendors for products and components, many of which are single-source or limited-source suppliers, could harm Dell Technologies business by adversely affecting product availability, delivery, reliability, and cost for information about the risks associated with Dell Technologies use of single- or limited-source suppliers. Geographic Operations Our global corporate headquarters is located in Round Rock, Texas. We have operations and conduct business in many countries located in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and other geographic regions. To increase our global presence, we continue to focus on emerging markets outside of the United States, Western Europe, Canada, and Japan. We continue to view these geographical markets, which include the vast majority of the worlds population, as a long-term growth opportunity. Accordingly, we pursue the development of technology solutions that meet the needs of these markets. Our expansion in emerging markets creates additional complexity in coordinating the design, development, procurement, manufacturing, distribution, and support of our product and services offerings. For information about the amount of net revenue we generated from our operations outside of the United States during the last three fiscal years, see Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. 8 Table of Contents Competition We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and services offerings. We face ongoing product and price competition in all areas of our business, including from both branded and generic competitors. We compete based on our ability to offer customers competitive, scalable, and integrated solutions that provide the most current and desired product and services features at a competitive price. We closely monitor market pricing and solutions trends, including the effect of foreign exchange rate movements, in an effort to provide the best value for our customers. We believe that our strong relationships with our customers and channel partners allow us to respond quickly to changing customer needs and other macroeconomic factors. The markets in which we compete are comprised of large and small companies across all areas of our business. We believe that new businesses will continue to enter these markets and develop technologies that, if commercialized, may compete with our products and services. Moreover, current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, which may further increase the competitive pressures. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Factors Relating to Our Business and Our Industry for information about our competitive risks. Sales and Marketing We operate a diversified business model, with the majority of our revenue and operating income derived from commercial clients that consist of large enterprises, small and medium-sized businesses, and public sector customers. We sell products and services directly to customers and through other sales channels, such as value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers. During Fiscal 2019, our other sales channels contributed over 50% of our net revenue. Our customers include large global and national corporate businesses, public institutions that include government, educational institutions, healthc are organizations, and law enforcement agencies, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers. Our sales efforts are organized around the evolving needs of our customers, and our marketing initiatives reflect this focus. We believe that our unified global sales and marketing team creates a sales organization that is more customer-focused, collaborative, and innovative. Our go-to-market strategy includes a direct business model, as well as channel distribution. Our direct business model emphasizes direct communication with customers, thereby allowing us to refine our products and marketing programs for specific customers groups, and we continue to pursue this strategy. In addition to our direct business model, we rely on a network of channel partners to sell our products and services, enabling us to efficiently serve a greater number of customers. We market our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses and consumers through various advertising media. To react quickly to our customers needs, we track our Net Promoter Score, a customer loyalty metric that is widely used across various industries. Increasingly, we also engage with customers through our social media communities on www.delltechnologies.com and in external social media channels. For large business and institutional customers, we maintain a field sales force throughout the world. Dedicated account teams, which include technical sales specialists, form long-term relationships to provide our largest customers with a single source of assistance, develop tailored solutions for these customers, position the capabilities of Dell Technologies, and provide us with customer feedback. For these customers, we offer several programs designed to provide single points of contact and accountability with dedicated account managers, special pricing, and consistent service and support programs. We also maintain specific sales and marketing programs targeting federal, state, and local governmental agencies, as well as healthcare and educational customers. 9 Table of Contents Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses As of February 1, 2019 , we held a worldwide portfolio of 16,541 patents and had an additional 9,310 patent applications pending. Of those intellectual property rights, VMware, Inc. owned 2,928 patents and had an additional 2,879 patent applications pendin g. We also hold licenses to use numerous third-party patents. To replace expiring patents, we obtain new patents through our ongoing research and development activities. The inventions claimed in our patents and patent applications cover aspects of our current and possible future computer system products, manufacturing processes, and related technologies. Our product, business method, and manufacturing process patents may establish barriers to entry in many product lines. Although we use our patented inventions and also license them to others, we are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. We have entered into a variety of intellectual property licensing and cross-licensing agreements and software licensing agreements with other companies. We anticipate that our worldwide patent portfolio will continue to be of value in negotiating intellectual property rights with others in the industry. We have obtained U.S. federal trademark registration for the Dell word mark and logo mark and the VMware word and logo mark. We have pending applications to register Dell EMC word marks. As of February 1, 2019 , we owned registrations for approximately 305 of our other trademarks in the United States and had pending applications for registration of approximately 100 other trademarks. We believe that Dell Technologies, DELL, Dell EMC, VMware, Alienware, RSA Security, Secureworks, Pivotal, and Virtustream word marks and logo marks in the United States are material to our operations. As of February 1, 2019 , we also had applied for, or obtained registration of, the DELL word mark and several other marks in approximately 186 other countries. From time to time, other companies and individuals assert exclusive patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies or marks that are alleged to be relevant to the technology industry or our business. We evaluate each claim relating to our products and, if appropriate, seek a license to use the protected technology. The licensing agreements generally do not require the licensor to assist us in duplicating the licensors patented technology, nor do the agreements protect us from trade secret, copyright, or other violations by us or our suppliers in developing or selling the licensed products. Unless otherwise noted, trademarks appearing in this report are owned by us. We disclaim proprietary interest in the marks and names of others. Net Promoter Score is a trademark of Satmetrix Systems, Inc., Bain & Company, Inc., and Fred Reichheld. Government Regulation and Sustainability Government Regulation Our business is subject to regulation by various U.S. federal and state governmental agencies and other governmental agencies. Such regulation includes the activities of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission; the anti-trust regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the European Union; the consumer protection laws and financial services regulation of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various state governmental agencies; the export regulatory activities of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of the Treasury; the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the product safety regulatory activities of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and the U.S. Department of Transportation; the health information privacy and security requirements of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; and the environmental, employment and labor, and other regulatory activities of a variety of governmental authorities in each of the countries in which we conduct business. We were not assessed any material environmental fines, nor did we have any material environmental remediation or other environmental costs, during Fiscal 2019. Our Philosophy on Sustainability One of the core tenets of Dell Technologies is the belief that technology drives human progress. We remain committed to putting our technology and expertise to work where it can do the most good for people and our planet. This commitment is intimately tied to our business goals of driving growth, helping mitigate risk, and ensuring business opportunities by building our brand. Based on the idea that we all win when we create shared value, we created goals in 2013 that build on the strengths throughout our value chain to create social, environmental, and economic value by uniting our purpose with our business objectives. These goals spanned the material areas of our business and set out our ambitions for 2020. 10 Table of Contents The following are key areas of focus from our 2020 plan: Creating Net Positive Outcomes Creating net positive outcomes means putting back more into society, the environment, and the global economy than we take out. In particular, we focus on helping customers harness the power of technology to deliver better social and environmental outcomes. Product Energy Efficiency We have set a goal to reduce the energy intensity of our entire product portfolio by 80% by 2020. Technology Take-back, Reuse, and Recycling We begin thinking about recycling at the design phase, asking our product engineers to work with recyclers to understand how to make products easy to repair or disassemble for recycling. When our products reach the end of their life cycles, we make it easy for customers to recycle their obsolete electronic equipment. Circular Economy and Design for the Environment Recycling, reuse, and closed-loop manufacturing form the bedrock of the circular economy, ensuring that materials already in circulation stay in the economy instead of exiting as waste. Within our own operations, we look at how materials can be used, or reused, in ways that extend their value. Reducing Our Footprint, Caring for Our Planet We are focused on reducing the impact of our operations on the environment. Our teams examine practices and processes throughout our facilities to identify other opportunities for greater efficiency. Many of our locations purchase some or all of their electricity from renewable sources and many of our manufacturing facilities are approaching zero waste to landfill. Further, Dell Technologies is committed to maintaining the vitality of our oceans with our work concerning ocean-bound plastics, where we are processing plastics collected from beaches, waterways, and coastal areas and incorporating them into our packaging. We have made a pledge to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals to increase our annual use of ocean plastics by 10 times by 2025 and to help build further demand by convening a working group with other manufacturers to create an open-source ocean plastics supply chain. To that end, we are working to bring together a cross-industry consortium of global companies that also are committed to scaling the use of ocean-bound plastics. Social and Environmental Responsibility in the Supply Chain We are committed to responsible business practices and hold ourselves and our suppliers to a high standard of excellence. We work in partnership with our suppliers to reduce risks that could lead to harm of workers, production suspensions, factory shut-downs, or environmental damage. All of our suppliers must agree to our global supplier principles and accept the Responsible Business Alliance (formerly known as the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) Code of Conduct. Additionally, we are committed to a conflict-free mineral supply chain. Youth Learning Technology skills are critical to continued innovation and can have a profound effect on our businesses, communities, and sustainability. We have a strong commitment to Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math and other youth learning activities, providing funding, volunteer time, and technology to underserved populations. Partnering with TGen Together with the Translational Genomics Research Institute (TGen), we are changing the paradigm in the treatment of childhood cancers. We developed the Genomic Data Analysis Platform a complete high-performance computing infrastructure solution uniquely designed to meet the needs of genomic data collection and analysis. Over the past six years, we have increased computational capacity over three times, and increased storage speeds and capacity to over four times that of the original systems, thereby reducing the time it takes to sequence a genome from multiple weeks to just six hours. Our Fiscal 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report is available at www.dell.com/crreport , and our Fiscal 2019 report is expected to be available in June 2019. The VMware Fiscal 2018 Global Impact Report is available at www.vmware.com/company/sustainability , and the Fiscal 2019 report is expected to be available in September 2019. 11 Table of Contents Product Backlog Product backlog represents the value of unfulfilled manufacturing orders. Our business model generally gives us the ability to optimize product backlog at any point in time, for example, expediting shipping or prioritizing customer orders toward products that have shorter lead times. Because product backlog at any point in time may not result in the generation of any predictable amount of net revenue in any subsequent period, we do not believe product backlog to be a meaningful indicator of future net revenue. Product backlog is included as a component of remaining performance obligation to the extent we determine that the manufacturing orders are non-cancelable. Employees As of February 1, 2019 , we had approximately 157,000 total full-time employees, approximately 24,000 of whom were employees of VMware, Inc. In comparison, as of February 2, 2018 , we had approximately 145,000 total full-time employees, approximately 22,000 of whom were employees of VMware, Inc. As of February 1, 2019 , approximately 37% of our full-time employees were located in the United States and approximately 63% were located in other countries. Corporate Information We are a holding company that conducts our operations through subsidiaries. We were incorporated in the state of Delaware on January 31, 2013 under the name Denali Holding Inc. in connection with Dells going-private transaction, which was completed in October 2013. We changed our name to Dell Technologies Inc. on August 25, 2016. The mailing address of our principal executive offices is One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682. Our telephone number is 1-800-289-3355. Our website address is www.delltechnologies.com . We make available free of charge through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The contents of our website are not a part of this annual report on Form 10-K. Class V Transaction On December 28, 2018, we completed a transaction, referred to as the Class V transaction, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement), dated as of July 1, 2018 and amended as of November 14, 2018, between Dell Technologies and Teton Merger Sub Inc. (Merger Sub), a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub was merged with and into Dell Technologies (the Merger), with Dell Technologies continuing as the surviving corporation. Dell Technologies completed the Class V transaction following approval of the transaction by its stockholders at a special meeting held on December 11, 2018. Dell Technologies paid $14 billion in cash and issued 149,387,617 shares of its Class C Common Stock in connection with the Class V transaction. The Class C Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) on a when-issued basis as of the opening of trading on December 26, 2018 and on a regular-way basis as of the opening of trading on December 28, 2018. The Class V Common Stock ceased trading on the NYSE prior to the opening of trading on December 28, 2018. The Class V Common Stock was a type of common stock intended to track the economic performance of a portion of Dell Technologies interest in the Class V Group, which consisted solely of VMware, Inc. common stock held by the Company. As a result of the Class V transaction, pursuant to which all outstanding shares of Class V Common Stock ceased to be outstanding, the tracking stock feature of Dell Technologies capital structure was terminated. The Class C Common Stock issued to former holders of the Class V Common Stock represents an interest in the Companys entire business and, unlike the Class V Common Stock, is not intended to track the performance of any distinct assets or business. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation that went into effect as of the effective time of the Merger (the Effective Time) prohibits Dell Technologies from issuing shares of Class V Common Stock. 12 Table of Contents At the Effective Time, each outstanding share of Class V Common Stock was exchanged for either (1) $120.00 in cash, without interest, subject to a cap of $14 billion on the aggregate cash consideration, or (2) 1.8066 shares of Class C Common Stock. The exchange ratio was calculated based on the aggregate amount of cash elections described below, as well as the aggregate volume-weighted average price per share of Class V Common Stock on the NYSE (as reported on Bloomberg) of $104.8700 for the period of 17 consecutive trading days that began on November 28, 2018 and ended on December 21, 2018. Of the 199,356,591 shares of Class V Common Stock outstanding as of the record date for the Class V transaction: cash elections were made with respect to 181,897,352 shares, or 91.2% of the total outstanding shares of Class V Common Stock; and share elections (including deemed share elections with respect to shares for which no elections were made) were made with respect to 17,459,239 shares, or 8.8% of the total outstanding shares of Class V Common Stock. Class V stockholders elected in the aggregate to receive approximately $21.8 billion in cash, which exceeded the $14 billion cap on the aggregate cash consideration. As a result, the cash consideration was subject to a proration factor of approximately 0.6414, which was calculated by dividing the $14 billion cap on the aggregate cash consideration by approximately $21.8 billion of total cash elections. Each Class V stockholder that elected to receive cash for its shares of Class V Common Stock became entitled to receive cash consideration for such number of shares, prorated by the proration factor, and to receive shares of Class C Common Stock for its remaining Class V Common Stock, together with cash in lieu of any fractional shares of Class C Common Stock. At the Effective Time and unless otherwise agreed by Dell Technologies and a holder of a Class V Common Stock-based equity award granted by us (a Class V Award), each Class V Award was converted into a new equity award on the same terms and conditions (including applicable vesting requirements and deferral provisions) with respect to the number of shares of Class C Common Stock that was equal to the number of shares of Class V Common Stock that were subject to the Class V Award multiplied by 1.8066 (rounded down to the nearest whole share). The exercise price for any Class V Award options so converted was equal the exercise price of such Class V Award options immediately prior to the Effective Time divided by 1.8066 (rounded up to the nearest whole penny). Immediately following the completion of the Class V transaction, Dell Technologies had approximately 171,909,324 outstanding shares of Class C Common Stock (or approximately 206,478,102 shares on a fully diluted basis, before applying the treasury stock method) and approximately 718,434,605 shares of common stock in total (or approximately 763,912,474 shares on a fully diluted basis, before applying the treasury stock method). The aggregate cash consideration and the fees and expenses incurred in connection with the Class V transaction were funded with proceeds of $3.67 billion from new term loans under our senior secured credit facilities, proceeds of a margin loan financing in an aggregate principal amount of $1.35 billion, proceeds of Dell Technologies pro-rata portion, in the amount of $8.87 billion, of a special $11 billion cash dividend paid by VMware, Inc. in connection with the Class V transaction, and cash on hand at Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries. See Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report for information about the debt incurred by Dell Technologies to finance the Class V transaction. The Merger Agreement and Dell Technologies amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide for certain corporate governance changes that will be implemented following the closing of the Merger. Among such changes, Dell Technologies has agreed that, no later than June 30, 2019, (1) Dell Technologies board of directors will appoint a fourth director who meets the independence requirements of the NYSE (an independent director) to the board of directors after consultation with holders of Class C Common Stock and (2) Dell Technologies will establish a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the board of directors. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is expected to be initially composed of Michael Dell, as chair, and Egon Durban, who currently serve as directors, and one independent director. In accordance with the Merger Agreement, the amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for the ability of holders of Class C Common Stock, voting separately as a series, to elect one director beginning with the second annual meeting of stockholders of Dell Technologies following the closing of the Merger and annually thereafter. 13 Table of Contents Executive Officers of Dell Technologies The following table sets forth, as of February 14, 2019, information about our executive officers, who are appointed by our board of directors. Name Age Position Michael S. Dell 54 Chief Executive Officer Jeffery W. Clarke 56 Vice Chairman, Products and Operations Allison Dew 49 Chief Marketing Officer Howard D. Elias 61 President, Services and Digital Marius Haas 51 President and Chief Commercial Officer Steven H. Price 57 Chief Human Resources Officer Karen H. Quintos 55 Chief Customer Officer Rory Read 57 Chief Operating Executive, Dell and President, Virtustream Richard J. Rothberg 55 General Counsel William F. Scannell 56 President, Global Enterprise Sales and Customer Operations, Dell EMC Thomas W. Sweet 59 Chief Financial Officer Michael S. Dell Mr. Dell serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Dell Technologies. Mr. Dell served as Chief Executive Officer of Dell Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies, from 1984 until July 2004 and resumed that role in January 2007. In 1998, Mr. Dell formed MSD Capital, L.P. for the purpose of managing his and his familys investments, and, in 1999, he and his wife established the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation to provide philanthropic support to a variety of global causes. He is an honorary member of the Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum and is an executive committee member of the International Business Council. He serves as a member of the Technology CEO Council and is a member of the U.S. Business Council and the Business Roundtable. Mr. Dell is also Chairman of the Board of VMware, Inc., Non-Executive Chairman of SecureWorks, and a director of Pivotal. He also serves on the governing board of the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, India, and is a board member of Catalyst, Inc., a non-profit organization that promotes inclusive workplaces for women. In June 2014, Mr. Dell was named the United Nations foundations first Global Advocate for Entrepreneurship. Jeffrey W. Clarke Mr. Clarke serves as Vice Chairman, Products and Operations of Dell Technologies, responsible for Dell Technologies global supply chain, and leads its product organizations: Infrastructure Solutions Group and Client Solutions Group. Mr. Clarke has served as Vice Chairman, Products and Operations since September 2017, before which he served as Vice Chairman and President, Operations and Client Solutions with Dell Technologies and, previously, Dell, since January 2009. In these roles, Mr. Clarke has been responsible for global manufacturing, procurement, and supply chain activities worldwide, as well as the engineering, design, and development of servers, storage and networking products, as well as engineering, design, development and sales of computer desktops, notebooks, workstations, cloud client computing and end-user computing software solutions. From January 2003 until January 2009, Mr. Clarke served as Senior Vice President, Business Product Group. From November 2001 to January 2003, Mr. Clarke served as Vice President and General Manager, Relationship Product Group. In 1995, Mr. Clarke became the director of desktop development. Mr. Clarke joined Dell in 1987 as a quality engineer and has served in a variety of other engineering and management roles. Allison Dew Ms. Dew serves as the Chief Marketing Officer of Dell Technologies. In this role, in which she has served since March 2018, Ms. Dew is directly responsible for Dell Technologies global marketing organization and strategy and all aspects of our marketing efforts including brand and creative, product marketing, communications, digital, and field and channel marketing. Since joining Dell Technologies in 2008, Ms. Dew has been instrumental in Dell Technologies marketing transformation, leading an emphasis on data-driven marketing, customer understanding, and integrated planning. Most recently, prior to her current position, Ms. Dew led marketing for our Client Solutions Group from December 2013 to March 2018. Before joining Dell Technologies, Ms. Dew served in various marketing leadership roles at Microsoft Corporation, a global technology company. Ms. Dew also worked in a regional advertising agency in Tokyo, Japan and with an independent multi-cultural advertising agency in New York City. 14 Table of Contents Howard D. Elias Mr. Elias serves as President, Services and Digital of Dell Technologies, supporting customers across the Client Solutions and Infrastructure Solutions Groups. Mr. Elias oversees technology and deployment services, consulting services, global support services, education services, global Centers of Excellence, the Dell Digital organization and Virtustream. Mr. Elias previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer, EMC Global Enterprise Services from January 2013 until EMCs acquisition by Dell Technologies, and was President and Chief Operating Officer, EMC Information Infrastructure and Cloud Services from September 2009 to January 2013. In these roles, Mr. Elias was responsible for setting the strategy, driving the execution, and creating the best practices for services that enabled the digital transformation and data center modernization of EMCs customers. Mr. Elias also had responsibility at EMC for leading the integration of the Dell and EMC businesses, including overseeing the cross-functional teams that drove all facets of integration planning. Previously, Mr. Elias was EMCs Executive Vice President, Global Marketing and Corporate Development, responsible for all marketing, sales enablement, technology alliances, corporate development, and new ventures. Mr. Elias was also a co-founder and served on the board of managers for the Virtual Computing Environment Company, now part of Dell Technologies converged platform division. Before joining EMC, Mr. Elias served in various capacities at Hewlett-Packard Company, a provider of information technology products, services, and solutions for enterprise customers, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Management and Operations for the Enterprise Systems Group. Mr. Elias is a director of TEGNA Inc., a media and digital business company. Marius Haas Mr. Haas serves as President and Chief Commercial Officer of Dell Technologies, responsible for the global go-to-market organization, delivering innovative and practical solutions to commercial customers. In this role, Mr. Haas also has responsibility for Dell Technologies channel partners, as well as for public and federal customers worldwide. Mr. Haas previously served as Dells Chief Commercial Officer and President, Enterprise Solutions from 2012 to September 2016, where he was responsible for strategy, development, and deployment of all data center and cloud solutions globally. Mr. Haas came to Dell in 2012 from Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. L.P., a global investment firm, where he was responsible for identifying and pursuing new investments, while supporting existing portfolio companies with operational expertise. Before his service in that role, Mr. Haas served at Hewlett-Packard Companys Networking Division as Senior Vice President and Worldwide General Manager from 2008 to 2011 and as Chief of Staff to the CEO and Senior Vice President of Strategy and Corporate Development from 2003 to 2008. He has previously served as a member of McKinsey & Company CSO Council, the Ernst & Young Corporate Development Leadership Network, the board of directors for Airtight Networks, and the board of directors of the Association of Strategic Alliance Professionals. Mr. Haas currently serves on the board of directors of the US-China Business Council. Steven H. Price Mr. Price serves as Dell Technologies Chief Human Resources Officer, leading both human resources and global facilities functions. In this role, Mr. Price is responsible for overall human resources strategy in support of the purpose, values, and business initiatives of Dell Technologies. He is also responsible for addressing the culture, leadership, talent, and performance challenges of the Company. Mr. Price previously served as Dells Senior Vice President, Human Resources from June 2010 to September 2016. Mr. Price joined Dell in February 1997 and has served in many key leadership roles throughout the HR organization, including Vice President of HR Operations, Global Talent Management, Vice President of HR for the global Consumer business, Vice President of HR Americas, and Vice President of HR EMEA. Before joining Dell in 1997, Mr. Price spent 13 years with SC Johnson Wax, a producer of consumer products based in Racine, Wisconsin. Having started his career there in sales, he later moved into human resources, where he held a variety of senior positions. Mr. Price also is the executive sponsor for the Slack Employee Resource Group at Dell Technologies. 15 Table of Contents Karen H. Quintos Ms. Quintos serves as Chief Customer Officer of Dell Technologies, where she leads a global organization solely devoted to customer advocacy, and is responsible for setting and executing a total customer experience strategy. Ms. Quintos also leads the Diversity and Inclusion and Corporate Responsibility business imperatives, which encompass social responsibility, entrepreneurship, and diversity. Ms. Quintos previously served as Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer (CMO) for Dell from September 2010 to September 2016, where she led marketing for the Companys global commercial business, brand strategy, global communications, social media, corporate responsibility, customer insights, marketing talent development, and agency management. Before becoming CMO, Ms. Quintos served as Vice President of Dells global public business, from January 2008 to September 2010, and she also held various executive roles in marketing and in Dells Services and Supply Chain Management teams since joining Dell in 2000. Ms. Quintos came to Dell from Citigroup, Inc., an investment banking and financial services company, where she served as Vice President of Global Operations and Technology. She also spent 12 years with Merck & Co., a manufacturer and distributor of pharmaceuticals, where she held a variety of marketing, operations, and supply chain leadership positions. She has served on multiple boards of directors and currently serves on the boards of Lennox International, the Susan G. Komen for the Cure, and Penn States Smeal Business School. Ms. Quintos also is founder and executive sponsor of Dells Wise employee resource group. Rory Read Mr. Read serves as Chief Operating Executive, Dell and as President of Virtustream. As Chief Operating Officer of Dell, in which position he has served since October 2015, Mr. Read applies his executive leadership strength and operational expertise to critical areas of our business, driving key transformational objectives. As President of Virtustream, in which role he has served since May 2018, Mr. Read is responsible for overseeing the strategic direction of the Company driving business execution excellence and extending Virtustreams market leadership position as the cloud service and software partner of choice. Mr. Read was Chief Integration Officer from October 2015 until April 2018 and led the historic transaction to combine Dell Inc. and EMC. From March 2015 to October 2015, Mr. Read served as Chief Operating Officer and President of Worldwide Commercial Sales for Dell, where he was responsible for cross-business unit and country-level operational planning, building and leading the Companys best-in-class sales engine, and overseeing the strategy for the Companys global channel team, system integrator partners, and direct sales force. Prior to joining Dell in March 2015, Mr. Read served as President and Chief Executive Officer at Advanced Micro Devices, Inc., a technology company, from August 2011 to October 2014, where he also served as a member of the board of directors. Before that service, he spent over five years as President and Chief Operating Officer at Lenovo Group Ltd., a computer technology company, where he was responsible for driving growth, execution, profitability, and performance across an enterprise encompassing more than 160 countries. Mr. Read also spent 23 years at International Business Machines Corporation, a technology and consulting company, serving in various leadership roles in the Asia-Pacific region and globally. Richard J. Rothberg Mr. Rothberg serves as General Counsel and Secretary for Dell Technologies. In this role, in which he has served since November 2013, Mr. Rothberg oversees the global legal department and manages government affairs, compliance, and ethics. He is also responsible for global security. Mr. Rothberg joined Dell in 1999 and has served in critical leadership roles throughout the legal department. He served as Vice President of Legal, supporting Dells businesses in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region before moving to Singapore in 2008 as Vice President of Legal for the Asia-Pacific and Japan region. Mr. Rothberg returned to the United States in 2010 to serve as Vice President of Legal for the North America and Latin America regions. In this role, he was lead counsel for sales and operations in the Americas and for the enterprise solutions, software, and end-user computing business units. He also led the government affairs organization worldwide. Before joining Dell, Mr. Rothberg spent nearly eight years in senior legal roles at Caterpillar Inc., an equipment manufacturing company, in senior legal roles in Nashville, Tennessee and Geneva, Switzerland. Mr. Rothberg was also an attorney for IBM Credit Corporation and at Rogers & Wells, a law firm. 16 Table of Contents William F. Scannell Mr. Scannell serves as President, Global Enterprise Sales and Customer Operations, Dell EMC, leading the global go-to-market organization serving enterprise customers. In this role, in which he has served since September 2017, Mr. Scannell leads the Dell EMC sales teams to deliver technology solutions to large enterprises and public institutions worldwide. He is responsible for driving global growth and continued market leadership by delivering and supporting enterprise products, services, and solutions to organizations in established and new markets around the world. Previously, Mr. Scannell served as President, Global Sales and Customer Operations at EMC Corporation. In this role, to which he was appointed in July 2012, Mr. Scannell focused on driving coordination and teamwork among EMCs business unit sales forces, as well as building and maintaining relationships with EMCs largest global accounts, global alliance partners, and global channel partners. Mr. Scannell began his career as an EMC sales representative in 1986, becoming country manager of Canada in 1988. Shortly thereafter, his responsibilities expanded to include the United States and Latin America. In 1999, Mr. Scannell moved to London to oversee EMCs business across all of Europe, Middle East and Africa. He then managed worldwide sales in 2001 and 2002 before being appointed Executive Vice President in 2007. Thomas W. Sweet Mr. Sweet serves as Chief Financial Officer of Dell Technologies. In this role, in which he has served since January 2014, he is responsible for all aspects of the Companys finance function, including accounting, financial planning and analysis, tax, treasury, investor relations, and corporate strategy. From May 2007 to January 2014, Mr. Sweet served in a variety of finance leadership roles for Dell, including as Vice President of Corporate Finance, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer with responsibility for global accounting, tax, treasury, and investor relations, as well as for global finance services. Mr. Sweet was responsible for external financial reporting for more than five years when Dell Inc. was a publicly-traded company. Before his service in those roles, Mr. Sweet served in a variety of finance leadership positions, including as Vice President responsible for overall finance activities within the corporate business, education, government, and healthcare business units of Dell. Mr. Sweet also has served as Vice President of internal audit and in a number of sales leadership roles in education and corporate business units since joining Dell in 1997. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those Dell Technologies currently expect or seek. The risks described below are not the only risks facing us. There are additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that Dell Technologies currently deem to be immaterial that also may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or prospects. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry Competitive pressures may adversely affect Dell Technologies industry unit share position, revenue, and profitability. Dell Technologies operates in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and services offerings. As a result, Dell Technologies faces aggressive product and price competition from both branded and generic competitors. Dell Technologies competes based on its ability to offer to its customers competitive integrated solutions that provide the most current and desired product and services features. There is a risk that Dell Technologies competitors may provide products that are less costly, perform better or include additional features that are not available with Dell Technologies products. There also is a risk that Dell Technologies product portfolios may quickly become outdated or that Dell Technologies market share may quickly erode. Further, efforts to balance the mix of products and services in order to optimize profitability, liquidity, and growth may put pressure on Dell Technologies industry position. As the technology industry continues to expand globally, there may be new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry in the technology industry increase the potential for challenges from new industry competitors. There also may be increased competition from new types of products as the options for mobile and cloud computing solutions increase. In addition, companies with which Dell Technologies has strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas or current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase the competitive pressures on Dell Technologies. Reliance on vendors for products and components, many of which are single-source or limited-source suppliers, could harm Dell Technologies business by adversely affecting product availability, delivery, reliability, and cost. Dell Technologies maintains several single-source or limited-source supplier relationships, including relationships with third-party software providers, either because multiple sources are not readily available or because the relationships are advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. A delay in the supply of a critical single- or limited-source product or component may prevent the timely shipment of the related product in desired quantities or configurations. In addition, Dell Technologies may not be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software currently offered with its products if that software becomes obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future product versions or is not adequately maintained or updated. Even where multiple sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm Dell Technologies operating results. Dell Technologies obtains many of its products and all of its components from third-party vendors, many of which are located outside of the United States. In addition, significant portions of Dell Technologies products are assembled by contract manufacturers, primarily in various locations in Asia. A significant concentration of such outsourced manufacturing currently is performed by only a few of Dell Technologies contract manufacturers, often in single locations. Dell Technologies sells components to these contract manufacturers and generates large non-trade accounts receivables, an arrangement that would present a risk of uncollectibility if the financial condition of a contract manufacturer should deteriorate. Although these relationships generate cost efficiencies, they limit Dell Technologies direct control over production. The increasing reliance on vendors subjects Dell Technologies to a greater risk of shortages and reduced control over delivery schedules of components and products, as well as a greater risk of increases in product and component costs. Because Dell Technologies maintains minimal levels of component and product inventories, a disruption in component or product availability could harm Dell Technologies ability to satisfy customer needs. In addition, defective parts and products from these vendors could reduce product reliability and harm Dell Technologies reputation. 18 Table of Contents If Dell Technologies fails to achieve favorable pricing from vendors, its profitability could be adversely affected. Dell Technologies profitability is affected by its ability to achieve favorable pricing from vendors and contract manufacturers, including through negotiations for vendor rebates, marketing funds, and other vendor funding received in the normal course of business. Because these supplier negotiations are continuous and reflect the evolving competitive environment, the variability in timing and amount of incremental vendor discounts and rebates can affect Dell Technologies profitability. The vendor programs may change periodically, potentially resulting in adverse profitability trends if Dell Technologies cannot adjust pricing or variable costs. An inability to establish a cost and product advantage, or determine alternative means to deliver value to customers, may adversely affect Dell Technologies revenue and profitability. Adverse global economic conditions and instability in financial markets may harm Dell Technologies business and result in reduced net revenue and profitability. As a global company with customers operating in a broad range of businesses and industries, Dell Technologies performance is affected by global economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect customer demand for Dell Technologies products and services. Such economic conditions could result in postponed or decreased spending amid customer concerns over unemployment, reduced asset values, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, local and state governments, and sovereign nations. Weak or unstable global economic conditions, including due to international trade protection measures, also could harm Dell Technologies business by contributing to product shortages or delays, insolvency of key suppliers, customer and counterparty insolvencies, increased product costs and associated price increases, reduced global sales and increased challenges in managing Dell Technologies operations. Any such effects could have a negative impact on Dell Technologies net revenue and profitability. Dell Technologies results of operations may be adversely affected if it fails to successfully execute its growth strategy. Dell Technologies growth strategy involves reaching more customers through direct sales, new distribution channels, expanding relationships with resellers, and augmenting select business areas through targeted acquisitions and other commercial arrangements. As more customers are reached through new distribution channels and expanded reseller relationships, Dell Technologies may fail to manage effectively the increasingly difficult tasks of inventory management and demand forecasting. The ability to implement this growth strategy depends on a successful transitioning of sales capabilities, the successful addition to the breadth of Dell Technologies solutions capabilities through selective acquisitions of other businesses, and the effective management of the consequences of these strategic initiatives. If Dell Technologies is unable to meet these challenges, its results of operations could be adversely affected. Dell Technologies faces risks and challenges in connection with its goal of becoming the leading and essential infrastructure solutions provider and its business strategy. Dell Technologies expects it will take more time and investment to become the leading and essential infrastructure solutions provider, and the investments it must make are likely to result in lower gross margins and raise its operating expenses and capital expenditures. For Fiscal 2019, Dell Technologies Client Solutions business generated approximately 48% of Dell Technologies net revenue, and largely relied on PC sales. Revenue from Client Solutions absorbs Dell Technologies significant overhead costs and allows for scaled procurement. As a result, Client Solutions remains an important component in Dell Technologies ongoing growth strategy. Although Dell Technologies continues to rely on Client Solutions as a critical element of its business, Dell Technologies also anticipates an increasingly challenging demand environment in Client Solutions and intensifying market competition. Current challenges in Client Solutions stem from fundamental changes in the PC market, including a decline in worldwide revenues for desktop and laptop PCs, and lower shipment forecasts for PC products due to a general lengthening of the replacement cycle for PC products and increasing interest in alternative mobile solutions. PC shipments worldwide declined during calendar year 2017, and further deterioration in the PC market may occur. Other challenges include declining margins as demand for PC products shifts from higher-margin premium products to lower-cost and lower-margin products, particularly in emerging markets, and significant and increasing competition from efficient and low-cost manufacturers and from manufacturers of innovative and higher-margin PC products. 19 Table of Contents The challenges Dell Technologies faces include low operating margins for the Infrastructure Solutions Group and, although Client Solutions drives pull-through revenue and cross-selling of ISG solutions, the potential for further margin erosion remains due to intense competition, including emerging competitive pressure from cloud services. Improving the integration of Dell Technologies product and service offerings as well as its ability to cross-sell remain a work in progress, as Dell Technologies is in the early stages of integrating its products into solutions and thus far has limited overlap in the base of large customers for the Client Solutions business and the ISG business. In addition, returns from Dell Technologies prior acquisitions have been mixed and will require additional investments to reposition the business for growth. As a result of the foregoing challenges, Dell Technologies business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Dell Technologies may not successfully implement its acquisition strategy, which could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and increased costs. Dell Technologies makes strategic acquisitions of other companies as part of its growth strategy. Dell Technologies could experience unforeseen operating difficulties in assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel, or operations of acquired companies, especially if Dell Technologies is unable to retain the key personnel of an acquired company. Further, future acquisitions may result in a delay or reduction of sales for both Dell Technologies and the acquired company because of customer uncertainty about the continuity and effectiveness of solutions offered by either company and may disrupt Dell Technologies existing business by diverting resources and significant management attention that otherwise would be focused on development of the existing business. Acquisitions also may negatively affect Dell Technologies relationships with strategic partners if the acquisitions are seen as bringing Dell Technologies into competition with such partners. To complete an acquisition, Dell Technologies may be required to use substantial amounts of cash, engage in equity or debt financings, or enter into credit agreements to secure additional funds. Such debt financings could involve restrictive covenants that might limit Dell Technologies capital-raising activities and operating flexibility. Further, an acquisition may negatively affect Dell Technologies results of operations because it may expose Dell Technologies to unexpected liabilities, require the incurrence of charges and substantial indebtedness or other liabilities, have adverse tax consequences, result in acquired in-process research and development expenses, or in the future require the amortization, write-down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, or fail to generate a financial return sufficient to offset acquisition costs. In addition, Dell Technologies periodically divests businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of its strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt Dell Technologies business and distract management from other responsibilities, and may result in losses on disposition or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification or other financial arrangements, for a period following the transaction, which could adversely affect Dell Technologies financial results. If its cost efficiency measures are not successful, Dell Technologies may become less competitive. Dell Technologies continues to focus on minimizing operating expenses through cost improvements and simplification of its corporate structure. Certain factors may prevent the achievement of these goals, which may negatively affect Dell Technologies competitive position. For example, Dell Technologies may experience delays or unanticipated costs in implementing its cost efficiency plans, which could prevent the timely or full achievement of expected cost efficiencies. Dell Technologies inability to manage solutions and product and services transitions in an effective manner could reduce the demand for Dell Technologies solutions, products, and services, and the profitability of Dell Technologies operations. Continuing improvements in technology result in the frequent introduction of new solutions, products, and services, improvements in product performance characteristics, and short product life cycles. If Dell Technologies fails to manage in an effective manner transitions to new solutions and offerings, the products and services associated with such offerings and customer demand for Dell Technologies solutions, products and services could diminish, and Dell Technologies profitability could suffer. 20 Table of Contents Dell Technologies is increasingly sourcing new products and transitioning existing products through its contract manufacturers and manufacturing outsourcing relationships in order to generate cost efficiencies and better serve its customers. The success of product transitions depends on a number of factors, including the availability of sufficient quantities of components at attractive costs. Product transitions also present execution challenges and risks, including the risk that new or upgraded products may have quality issues or other defects. Failure to deliver high-quality hardware, software, and services could lead to loss of customers and diminished profitability. Dell Technologies must identify and address quality issues associated with its hardware, software, and services, many of which include third-party components. Although quality testing is performed regularly to detect quality problems and implement required solutions, failure to identify and correct significant product quality issues before the sale of such products to customers could result in lower sales, increased warranty or replacement expenses and reduced customer confidence, which could harm Dell Technologies operating results. Dell Technologies ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue is subject to additional risks and uncertainties. Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately half of Dell Technologies consolidated net revenue for Fiscal 2019. Dell Technologies future growth rates and success are substantially dependent on the continued growth of Dell Technologies business outside of the United States. Dell Technologies international operations face many risks and uncertainties, including varied local economic and labor conditions; political instability; changes in the U.S. and international regulatory environments; the impacts of trade protection measures, including increases in tariffs and trade barriers due to the current geopolitical climate and changes and instability in government policies and international trade arrangements, which could adversely affect Dell Technologies ability to conduct business in non-U.S. markets; tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign operations); copyright levies; and foreign currency exchange rates. Dell Technologies international operations could suffer as a result of the process initiated by the United Kingdom to negotiate its exit from the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit. Depending on the terms of Brexit, Dell Technologies could incur additional operating costs, sustain supply chain disruption, and face new regulatory impediments as the laws and regulations in the United Kingdom diverge from those in the European Union. Any of these factors could negatively affect Dell Technologies international business results and prospects for growth. Dell Technologies profitability may be adversely affected by product, customer, and geographic sales mix, and seasonal sales trends. Dell Technologies overall profitability for any period may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of products, customers, and geographic markets reflected in sales for that period, and by seasonal trends. Profit margins vary among products, services, customers, and geographic markets. For instance, services offerings generally have a higher profit margin than consumer products. In addition, parts of Dell Technologies business are subject to seasonal sales trends. Among the trends with the most significant impact on Dell Technologies operating results, sales to government customers (particularly the U.S. federal government) are typically stronger in Dell Technologies third fiscal quarter, sales in Europe, the Middle East and Africa are often weaker in Dell Technologies third fiscal quarter, and sales to consumers are typically strongest during Dell Technologies fourth fiscal quarter. Dell Technologies may lose revenue opportunities and experience gross margin pressure if sales channel participants fail to perform as expected. Dell Technologies relies on third-party value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, retailers, and other sales channels to complement its direct sales organization in order to reach more end-users globally. Future operating results depend on the performance of sales channel participants and on Dell Technologies success in maintaining and developing these relationships. Revenue and gross margins could be negatively affected if the financial condition or operations of channel participants weaken as a result of adverse economic conditions or other business challenges, or if uncertainty regarding the demand for Dell Technologies products causes channel participants to reduce their orders for these products. Further, some channel participants may consider the expansion of Dell Technologies direct sales initiatives to conflict with their business interests as distributors or resellers of Dell Technologies products, which could lead them to reduce their investment in the distribution and sale of such products, or to cease all sales of Dell Technologies products. 21 Table of Contents Dell Technologies financial performance could suffer from reduced access to the capital markets by Dell Technologies or some of its customers. Dell Technologies may access debt and capital sources to provide financing for customers and to obtain funds for general corporate purposes, including working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and funding of customer receivables. In addition, Dell Technologies maintains customer financing relationships with some companies that rely on access to the debt and capital markets to meet significant funding needs. Any inability of these companies to access such markets could compel Dell Technologies to self-fund transactions with such companies or to forgo customer financing opportunities, which could harm Dell Technologies financial performance. The debt and capital markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption from time to time in the future, which could result in higher credit spreads in such markets and higher funding costs for Dell Technologies. Deterioration in Dell Technologies business performance, a credit rating downgrade, volatility in the securitization markets, changes in financial services regulation, or adverse changes in the economy could lead to reductions in the availability of debt financing. In addition, these events could limit Dell Technologies ability to continue asset securitizations or other forms of financing from debt or capital sources, reduce the amount of financing receivables that Dell Technologies originates, or negatively affect the costs or terms on which Dell Technologies may be able to obtain capital. Any of these developments could adversely affect Dell Technologies net revenue, profitability, and cash flows. Weak economic conditions and additional regulation could harm Dell Technologies financial services activities. Dell Technologies financial services activities are negatively affected by adverse economic conditions that contribute to loan delinquencies and defaults. An increase in loan delinquencies and defaults would result in greater net credit losses, which may require Dell Technologies to increase its reserves for customer receivables. In addition, the implementation of new financial services regulation, or the application of existing financial services regulation in countries where Dell Technologies expands its financial services and related supporting activities, could unfavorably affect the profitability and cash flows of Dell Technologies consumer financing activities. Dell Technologies is subject to counterparty default risks. Dell Technologies has numerous arrangements with financial institutions that include cash and investment deposits, interest rate swap contracts, foreign currency option contracts and forward contracts. As a result, Dell Technologies is subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the terms of the arrangement. In times of market distress, a counterparty may default rapidly and without notice, and Dell Technologies may be unable to take action to cover its exposure, either because of lack of contractual ability to do so or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action. If one of Dell Technologies counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, Dell Technologies ability eventually to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterpartys default may be limited by the liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable legal regime governing the bankruptcy proceeding. In the event of such a default, Dell Technologies could incur significant losses, which could harm Dell Technologies business and adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. The exercise by customers of certain rights under their services contracts with Dell Technologies, or Dell Technologies failure to perform as it anticipates at the time it enters into services contracts, could adversely affect Dell Technologies revenue and profitability. Many of Dell Technologies services contracts allow customers to take actions that may adversely affect Dell Technologies revenue and profitability. These actions include terminating a contract if Dell Technologies performance does not meet specified service levels, requesting rate reductions or contract termination, reducing the use of Dell Technologies services or terminating a contract early upon payment of agreed fees. In addition, Dell Technologies estimates the costs of delivering the services at the outset of the contract. If Dell Technologies fails to estimate such costs accurately and actual costs significantly exceed estimates, Dell Technologies may incur losses on the services contracts. 22 Table of Contents Loss of government contracts could harm Dell Technologies business. Contracts with U.S. federal, state, and local governments and with foreign governments are subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and to the right of such governments to terminate contracts for convenience or non-appropriation. There is pressure on governments, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Funding reductions or delays could adversely affect public sector demand for Dell Technologies products and services. In addition, if Dell Technologies violates legal or regulatory requirements, the applicable government could suspend or disbar Dell Technologies as a contractor, which would unfavorably affect Dell Technologies net revenue and profitability. Dell Technologies business could suffer if Dell Technologies does not develop and protect its proprietary intellectual property or obtain or protect licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms. If Dell Technologies or its suppliers are unable to develop or protect desirable technology or technology licenses, Dell Technologies may be prevented from marketing products, may have to market products without desirable features, or may incur substantial costs to redesign products. Dell Technologies also may have to defend or enforce legal actions or pay damages if Dell Technologies is found to have violated the intellectual property of other parties. Although Dell Technologies suppliers might be contractually obligated to obtain or protect such licenses and indemnify Dell Technologies against related expenses, those suppliers could be unable to meet their obligations. Although Dell Technologies invests in research and development and obtains additional intellectual property through acquisitions, those activities do not guarantee that Dell Technologies will develop or obtain intellectual property necessary for profitable operations. Costs involved in developing and protecting rights in intellectual property may have a negative impact on Dell Technologies business. In addition, Dell Technologies operating costs could increase because of copyright levies or similar fees by rights holders and collection agencies in European and other countries. Infrastructure disruptions could harm Dell Technologies business. Dell Technologies depends on its information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to achieve its business objectives. Natural disasters, manufacturing failures, telecommunications system failures, or defective or improperly installed new or upgraded business management systems could lead to disruptions in this infrastructure. Portions of Dell Technologies IT infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service, or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work. Such disruptions may adversely affect Dell Technologies ability to receive or process orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner or otherwise conduct business in the normal course. Further, portions of Dell Technologies services business involve the processing, storage and transmission of data, which also would be negatively affected by such an event. Disruptions in Dell Technologies infrastructure could lead to loss of customers and revenue, particularly during a period of heavy demand for Dell Technologies products and services. Dell Technologies also could incur significant expense in repairing system damage and taking other remedial measures. Cyber attacks or other security incidents that disrupt Dell Technologies operations or result in the breach or other compromise of proprietary or confidential information about Dell Technologies or Dell Technologies workforce, customers or other third parties could disrupt Dell Technologies business, harm its reputation, cause Dell Technologies to lose clients and expose Dell Technologies to costly regulatory enforcement and litigation. Dell Technologies manages, stores, and otherwise processes various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to its operations. In addition, Dell Technologies businesses routinely process, store and transmit large amounts of data, including sensitive and personally identifiable information, for Dell Technologies customers. Criminal or other actors may be able to penetrate Dell Technologies security and misappropriate or compromise Dell Technologies confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. Dell Technologies may experience breaches or other compromises of its information technology systems. Dell reported in November 2018 that it had detected and disrupted unauthorized activity on its network attempting to extract Dell.com customer information. Further, hardware and operating system software and applications that Dell Technologies produces or procures from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including bugs and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of such systems. 23 Table of Contents The costs to address the foregoing security problems and security vulnerabilities before or after a security incident could be significant. Remediation efforts may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede Dell Technologies sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Dell Technologies could lose existing or potential customers for outsourcing services or other information technology solutions in connection with any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in Dell Technologies products. In addition, breaches of Dell Technologies security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about Dell Technologies or its customers or other third parties could expose Dell Technologies, its customers or other third parties affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in regulatory enforcement, litigation and potential liability for Dell Technologies, damage Dell Technologies brand and reputation or otherwise harm Dell Technologies business. Further, Dell Technologies relies on third-party data management providers and other vendors whose possible security problems and security vulnerabilities may have similar effects on Dell Technologies. Dell Technologies is subject to laws, rules and regulations in the United States and other countries relating to the collection, use and security of user and other data. Dell Technologies ability to execute transactions and to possess and use personal information and data in conducting its business subjects it to legislative and regulatory burdens that may require Dell Technologies to notify regulators and customers, employees, or other individuals of a security breach, including in the European Union under the EU General Data Protection Regulation, which took effect in May 2018. Dell Technologies has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses to comply with mandatory privacy and security standards and protocols imposed by law, regulation, industry standards or contractual obligations, but despite such expenditures may face regulatory and other legal actions in the event of a data breach or perceived or actual non-compliance with such requirements. Failure to hedge effectively Dell Technologies exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could adversely affect Dell Technologies financial condition and results of operations. Dell Technologies utilizes derivative instruments to hedge its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Some of these instruments and contracts may involve elements of market and credit risk in excess of the amounts recognized in Dell Technologies financial statements. If Dell Technologies is not successful in monitoring its foreign exchange exposures and conducting an effective hedging program, Dell Technologies foreign currency hedging activities may not offset the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its future results of operations and financial position. Adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes, the expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other tax compliance matters could result in an increase in Dell Technologies tax expense or its effective income tax rate. Changes in tax laws (including any future Treasury notices or regulations related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was signed into law on December 22, 2017) could adversely affect Dell Technologies operations and profitability. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial, and administrative changes have been made to tax laws applicable to Dell Technologies and companies similar to Dell Technologies. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the OECD), an international association of 36 countries, including the United States, has issued guidelines that change long-standing tax principles. This may introduce tax uncertainty as countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the OECD guidelines. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to occur, and such changes may adversely affect Dell Technologies tax liability. Portions of Dell Technologies operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time. Many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. If the tax holidays are not extended, or if Dell Technologies fails to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, its effective tax rate would be affected. Dell Technologies effective tax rate also could be impacted if Dell Technologies geographic sales mix changes. In addition, any actions by Dell Technologies to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which it has not previously provided for U.S. taxes may affect the effective tax rate. Dell Technologies is continually under audit in various tax jurisdictions. Dell Technologies may not be successful in resolving potential tax claims that arise from these audits. An unfavorable outcome in certain of these matters could result in a substantial increase in Dell Technologies tax expense. In addition, Dell Technologies provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets. 24 Table of Contents Dell Technologies profitability could suffer from any impairment of its portfolio investments. Dell Technologies invests a significant portion of its available funds in a portfolio consisting primarily of debt securities of various types and maturities pending the deployment of these funds in Dell Technologies business. Dell Technologies earnings performance could suffer from any impairment of its investments. Dell Technologies portfolio securities generally are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded in Dell Technologies financial statements at fair value. If any such investments experience declines in market price and it is determined that such declines are other than temporary, Dell Technologies may have to recognize in earnings the decline in the fair market value of such investments below their cost or carrying value. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could harm Dell Technologies business and result in substantial costs. Dell Technologies is involved in various claims, suits, investigations, and legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business, as well as those that arose in connection with the Class V transaction, including those described elsewhere in this report. Additional legal claims or regulatory matters may arise in the future and could involve stockholder, consumer, regulatory, compliance, intellectual property, antitrust, tax and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Regardless of the merits of the claims, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to Dell Technologies business. Dell Technologies could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely affect its operating results or cash flows in a particular period. In addition, Dell Technologies business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against it by any third party is successful, or if Dell Technologies fails to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions. Dell Technologies is incurring increased costs and is subject to additional regulations and requirements as a public company, and Dell Technologies management is required to devote substantial time to compliance matters, which could lower Dell Technologies profits or make it more difficult to run its business. Since it became a public company in June 2016, Dell Technologies has been incurring significant legal, accounting, and other expenses that it had not incurred as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements and costs of recruiting and retaining non-executive directors. Dell Technologies also is incurring costs associated with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules implemented by the SEC and the NYSE. The expenses incurred by public companies generally for financial reporting and corporate governance purposes have been increasing. The increased Dell Technologies legal and financial compliance costs have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. Dell Technologies management has to devote substantial time to ensuring that it complies with all of these requirements. Laws and regulations affecting public company directors and executive officers could make it more difficult for Dell Technologies to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or its board committees or as its executive officers. Further, if Dell Technologies is unable to satisfy its obligations as a public company, the Class C Common Stock could be subject to delisting from the NYSE and Dell Technologies could be subject to fines, sanctions and other regulatory action and potentially civil litigation. Compliance requirements of current or future environmental and safety laws, or other laws, may increase costs, expose Dell Technologies to potential liability and otherwise harm Dell Technologies business. Dell Technologies operations are subject to environmental and safety regulations in all areas in which Dell Technologies conducts business. Product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to climate change laws and regulations, materials composition, sourcing, energy efficiency and collection, recycling, treatment, transportation, and disposal of electronics products, including restrictions on mercury, lead, cadmium, lithium metal, lithium ion and other substances. If Dell Technologies fails to comply with applicable rules and regulations regarding the transportation, source, use and sale of such regulated substances, Dell Technologies could be subject to liability. The costs and timing of costs under environmental and safety laws are difficult to predict, but could have an adverse impact on Dell Technologies business. 25 Table of Contents In addition, Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and are also subject to export controls, customs and economic sanctions laws and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-corruption laws or export control, customs or economic sanctions laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on their business, results of operations and financial condition. Dell Technologies also is subject to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act intended to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of Congo or adjoining countries. Dell Technologies will incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and may realize other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in Dell Technologies products. Further, Dell Technologies may face reputational harm if its customers or other Dell Technologies stakeholders conclude that Dell Technologies is unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in its products. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters, or public health issues could harm Dell Technologies business. Armed hostilities, terrorism, natural disasters or public health issues, whether in the United States or abroad, could cause damage or disruption to Dell Technologies or Dell Technologies suppliers and customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm Dell Technologies business. For example, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and severe flooding in Thailand which occurred during fiscal year 2012 caused damage to infrastructure and factories that disrupted the supply chain for a variety of components used in Dells products. Any such future events could cause a decrease in demand for Dell Technologies products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products or for suppliers to deliver components, and create delays and inefficiencies in Dell Technologies supply chain. Dell Technologies is highly dependent on the services of Michael S. Dell, its Chief Executive Officer, and its success depends on the ability to attract, retain, and motivate key employees. Dell Technologies is highly dependent on the services of Michael S. Dell, its Chief Executive Officer and largest stockholder. If Dell Technologies loses the services of Mr. Dell, Dell Technologies may not be able to locate a suitable or qualified replacement, and Dell Technologies may incur additional expenses to recruit a replacement, which could severely disrupt Dell Technologies business and growth. Further, Dell Technologies relies on key personnel, including other members of its executive leadership team, to support its business and increasingly complex product and services offerings. Dell Technologies may not be able to attract, retain and motivate the key professional, technical, marketing and staff resources needed. Dell Technologies substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect its financial condition. Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which require significant interest and other debt service payments. As of February 1, 2019, Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries had approximately $54.2 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness. As of the same date, Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries also had an additional $5.6 billion available for borrowing under its revolving credit facilities. Dell Technologies substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: Dell Technologies must use a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on its senior credit facilities, its senior secured and senior unsecured notes, and its other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to Dell Technologies for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions; Dell Technologies ability to refinance such indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate purposes may be impaired; Dell Technologies is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because Dell Technologies senior credit facilities have variable rates of interest; 26 Table of Contents Dell Technologies leverage may be greater than that of some of its competitors, which may put Dell Technologies at a competitive disadvantage and reduce Dell Technologies flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; and Dell Technologies may be unable to comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in its senior credit facilities, the notes, and other indebtedness that limit Dell Technologies ability to incur additional debt, make investments and sell assets, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, would have an adverse effect on Dell Technologies business and prospects and could force it into bankruptcy or liquidation. Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries credit facilities and the indentures that govern the notes. If new indebtedness is added to the debt levels of Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries, the related risks that Dell Technologies now faces could intensify. Dell Technologies ability to access additional funding under its revolving credit facilities will depend upon, among other factors, the absence of a default under either such facility, including any default arising from a failure to comply with the related covenants. If Dell Technologies is unable to comply with its covenants under its revolving credit facilities, Dell Technologies liquidity may be adversely affected. From time to time, when it believes it is advantageous to do so, Dell Technologies may seek to reduce its leverage by repaying certain of its indebtedness before the maturity dates of such indebtedness. Dell Technologies may be unable to generate operating cash flows and other cash necessary to achieve a level of debt reduction that will significantly enhance its credit quality and reduce the risks associated with its substantial indebtedness. As of February 1, 2019, approximately $17.9 billion of Dell Technologies debt was variable-rate debt and a 100 basis point increase in interest rates would have resulted in an increase of approximately $179 million in annual interest expense on such debt. Dell Technologies ability to meet its expenses, to remain in compliance with its covenants under its debt instruments and to make future principal and interest payments in respect of its debt depends on, among other factors, Dell Technologies operating performance, competitive developments and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. Dell Technologies is not able to control many of these factors. Given current industry and economic conditions, Dell Technologies cash flow may not be sufficient to allow Dell Technologies to pay principal and interest on its debt and meet its other obligations. The financial performance of Dell Technologies is affected by the financial performance of VMware, Inc. Because Dell Technologies consolidates the financial results of VMware, Inc. in its results of operations, its financial performance is affected by the financial performance of VMware, Inc. VMware, Inc.s financial performance may be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: fluctuations in demand, adoption rates, sales cycles (which have been increasing in length), and pricing levels for VMware, Inc.s products and services; changes in customers budgets for information technology purchases and in the timing of its purchasing decisions; the timing of recognizing revenues in any given quarter, which can be affected by a number of factors, including product announcements, beta programs and product promotions that can cause revenue recognition of certain orders to be deferred until future products to which customers are entitled become available; the timing of announcements or releases of new or upgraded products and services by VMware, Inc. or by its competitors; the timing and size of business realignment plans and restructuring charges; VMware, Inc.s ability to maintain scalable internal systems for reporting, order processing, license fulfillment, product delivery, purchasing, billing and general accounting, among other functions; VMware, Inc.s ability to control costs, including its operating expenses; 27 Table of Contents credit risks of VMware, Inc.s distributors, who account for a significant portion of VMware, Inc.s product revenues and accounts receivable; VMware, Inc.s ability to process sales at the end of the quarter; seasonal factors, such as the end of fiscal period budget expenditures by VMware, Inc.s customers and the timing of holiday and vacation periods; renewal rates and the amounts of the renewals for enterprise agreements, as the original terms of such agreements expire; the timing and amount of software development costs that may be capitalized; unplanned events that could affect market perception of the quality or cost-effectiveness of VMware, Inc.s products and solutions; and VMware, Inc.s ability to predict accurately the degree to which customers will elect to purchase its subscriptionbased offerings in place of licenses to its onpremises offerings. Dell Technologies pension plan assets are subject to market volatility. Through the EMC merger, Dell Technologies assumed a noncontributory defined pension plan, which was originally part of the EMC legacy acquisition of Data General. The plans assets are invested in common stocks, bonds and cash. As of February 1, 2019 the expected long-term rate of return on the plans assets was 5.75% , which represented the average of the expected long-term rates of return weighted by the plans assets as of February 1, 2019. As market conditions permit, Dell Technologies expects to continue to shift the asset allocation to lower the percentage of investments in equities and increase the percentage of investments in long-duration fixed-income securities. The effect of such a change could result in a reduction in the long-term rate of return on plan assets and an increase in future pension expense. As of February 1, 2019, the ten-year historical rate of return on plan assets was 10.66%, and the inception-to-date return on plan assets was 9.40%. Should Dell Technologies not achieve the expected rate of return on the plans assets or if the plan experiences a decline in the fair value of its assets, Dell Technologies may be required to contribute assets to the plan, which could materially adversely affect its results of operations or financial condition. Risks Relating to Ownership of Class C Common Stock The price of Dell Technologies Class C Common Stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of an investment in the Class C Common Stock to decline. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies historically have experienced high levels of volatility. The trading price of Dell Technologies Class C Common Stock may fluctuate substantially as a result of the following factors, among others: announcements of new products, services or technologies, commercial relationships, acquisitions or other events by Dell Technologies or its competitors; changes in how customers perceive the effectiveness of Dell Technologies products, services or technologies; actual or anticipated variations in Dell Technologies quarterly or annual results of operations; changes in Dell Technologies financial guidance or estimates by securities analysts; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the information technology industry in particular; 28 Table of Contents actual or anticipated changes in the expectations of investors or securities analysts; fluctuations in the trading volume of the Class C Common Stock or the size of the trading market for the Class C Common Stock held by non-affiliates; litigation involving Dell Technologies, its industry, or both, including disputes or other developments relating to Dell Technologies ability to obtain patent protection for its processes and technologies and protect its other proprietary rights; regulatory developments in the United States and other jurisdictions in which Dell Technologies operates; general economic and political factors, including market conditions in Dell Technologies industry or the industries of its clients; major catastrophic events; sales of large blocks of the Class C Common Stock; and additions or departures of key employees. In addition, if the market for stock of companies in the technology industry or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of the Class C Common Stock could decline for reasons unrelated to Dell Technologies business, results of operations or financial condition. The market price of the Class C Common Stock also might decline in reaction to events that affect other companies in Dell Technologies industry, even if these events do not directly affect Dell Technologies. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities, securities class action litigation often has been brought against that company. If Dell Technologies stock price is volatile, Dell Technologies may become the target of securities litigation, which could cause it to incur substantial costs and divert its managements attention and resources from Dell Technologies business. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research reports or cease to publish research reports about Dell Technologies and its business or prospects, the market price or trading volume of the Class C Common Stock could decline. The trading market for the Class C Common Stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about Dell Technologies and its business or prospects. Dell Technologies does not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts covering Dell Technologies downgrades the Class C Common Stock, expresses an adverse change of opinion regarding the Class C Common Stock or publishes inaccurate research about Dell Technologies, the market price of the Class C Common Stock could decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of Dell Technologies or fails to publish reports on it on a regular basis, Dell Technologies could lose following in the financial markets, which could cause the market price or trading volume of the Class C Common Stock to decline. Dell Technologies multi-class common stock structure with different voting rights may adversely affect the trading price of the Class C Common Stock. Each share of Dell Technologies Class A Common Stock and each share of Dell Technologies Class B Common Stock has ten votes, while each share of Dell Technologies Class C Common Stock has one vote. Based on their ownership of Dell Technologies common stock as of February 1, 2019, because of these disparate voting rights, the MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders and the SLP stockholders collectively held common stock representing approximately 96.4% of the total voting power of Dell Technologies outstanding common stock. The limited ability of holders of the Class C Common Stock to influence matters requiring stockholder approval may adversely affect the market price of the Class C Common Stock. 29 Table of Contents In addition, in 2017, FTSE Russell and S&P Dow Jones changed their eligibility criteria to exclude new companies with multiple classes of shares of common stock from being added to certain indices. FTSE Russell instituted a requirement that new and, beginning in September 2022, existing constituents of its indices have greater than 5% of their voting rights in the hands of public stockholders, whereas S&P Dow Jones announced that companies with multiple share classes, such as ours, will not be eligible for inclusion in the S&P 500, S&P MidCap 400 and S&P SmallCap 600, which together make up the S&P Composite 1500. Other stock indices might adopt similar requirements in the future. Under the current criteria, Dell Technologies multi-class capital structure makes it ineligible for inclusion in any of these indices and, as a result, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds and other investment vehicles that track these indices will not invest in the Class C Common Stock. It is unclear what effect, if any, exclusion from the indices will have on the valuations of the affected publicly-traded companies. It is possible that such policies may depress the valuations of public companies excluded from these indices compared to valuations of companies that are included. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of shares of the Class C Common Stock could depress the trading price of the Class C Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of the Class C Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of the Class C Common Stock, which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares of Class C Common Stock at a time and price that they consider appropriate. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also could impair Dell Technologies ability to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price Dell Technologies deems appropriate, and Dell Technologies ability to use Class C Common Stock as consideration for acquisitions of other businesses, investments, or other corporate purposes. As of February 1, 2019, Dell Technologies had a total of approximately 172 million shares of Class C Common Stock outstanding. As of February 1, 2019, the 406,290,710 outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by the MD stockholders and the MSD Partners stockholders, and the 136,986,858 outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock held by the SLP stockholders were convertible into shares of Class C Common Stock at any time on a one-to-one basis. Although the MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and SLP stockholders generally are subject to transfer restrictions that prevent their sale or other transfer of common stock until June 27, 2019, thereafter such shares, upon any conversion into shares of Class C Common Stock, will be eligible for resale in the public market pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act, subject to volume, manner of sale, and other limitations under Rule 144. In addition, as of February 1, 2019, Dell Technologies had entered into a registration rights agreement with holders of 406,483,978 outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock (which are convertible into shares of Class C Common Stock), holders of all of the 136,986,858 outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (which are convertible into shares of Class C Common Stock) and holders of 18,181,818 outstanding shares of Class C Common Stock, pursuant to which Dell Technologies has granted such holders and their permitted transferees shelf, demand and/or piggyback registration rights with respect to such shares. Registration of those shares under the Securities Act would permit such holders to sell the shares into the public market. Further, as of February 1, 2019, Dell Technologies had 45,097,158 shares of Class C Common Stock that may be issued upon the exercise, vesting or settlement of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units or deferred stock units under Dell Technologies stock incentive plans, all of which would have been, upon issuance, eligible for sale in the public market, subject to expiration or waiver of applicable contractual transfer restrictions that, subject to certain exceptions, are scheduled to expire beginning on June 27, 2019, and to terminate on December 27, 2020, and an additional 32,050,556 shares of Class C Common Stock that have been authorized and reserved for issuance in relation to potential future awards under the stock incentive plans. Dell Technologies also may issue additional options in the future that may be exercised for additional shares of Class C Common Stock and additional restricted stock units or deferred stock units that may vest. Dell Technologies expects that all shares of Class C Common Stock issuable with respect to such awards will be registered under one or more registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act and available for sale in the open market. 30 Table of Contents Dell Technologies issuance of additional Class C Common Stock in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, its stock incentive plans, or otherwise will dilute all other stockholders. The Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation authorizes Dell Technologies to issue up to 7,900,000,000 shares of Class C Common Stock and up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock with such rights and preferences as may be determined by Dell Technologies board of directors. Subject to compliance with applicable law, Dell Technologies may issue shares of Class C Common Stock or securities convertible into Class C Common Stock from time to time in connection with financings, acquisitions, investments, Dell Technologies stock incentive plans, or otherwise. Dell Technologies may issue additional shares of Class C Common Stock from time to time at a discount to the market price of the Class C Common Stock at the time of issuance. Any issuance of Class C Common Stock could result in substantial dilution to Dell Technologies existing stockholders and cause the market price of the Class C Common Stock to decline. Dell Technologies does not presently intend to pay any dividends on the Class C Common Stock. Dell Technologies does not presently intend to pay cash dividends on the Class C Common Stock. Accordingly, investors may have to rely on sales of the Class C Common Stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any gains on their investment in the Class C Common Stock. Dell Technologies operations are conducted almost entirely through its subsidiaries and its ability to generate cash to make future dividend payments, if any, is highly dependent on the cash flows and the receipt of funds from its subsidiaries via dividends or intercompany loans. To the extent that Dell Technologies determines in the future to pay dividends on the Class C Common Stock, the terms of existing and future agreements governing Dell Technologies or its subsidiaries indebtedness, including the existing credit facilities of, and existing senior notes issued by, subsidiaries of Dell Technologies, may significantly restrict the ability of Dell Technologies subsidiaries to pay dividends or otherwise make distributions or transfer assets to Dell Technologies, as well as the ability of Dell Technologies to pay dividends to holders of its common stock. In addition, Delaware law imposes requirements that may restrict Dell Technologies ability to pay dividends to holders of its common stock. Provisions of Dell Technologies organizational documents and Delaware law may make it difficult for a third party to acquire Dell Technologies even if doing so may be beneficial to Dell Technologies stockholders. Certain provisions of Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay, or prevent a change in control of Dell Technologies that a stockholder may consider favorable. These provisions include: limitations on who may call special meetings of stockholders; advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the board of directors and for proposals for other businesses; the existence of authorized and unissued stock, including blank check preferred stock, which could be issued by the board of directors without approval of the holders of the common stock to persons friendly to Dell Technologies management, thereby protecting the continuity of Dell Technologies management, or which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of persons seeking to obtain control of Dell Technologies; the requirement that any stockholder written consent be signed by holders of a majority of Dell Technologies common stock beneficially owned by the MD stockholders and holders of a majority of Dell Technologies common stock beneficially owned by the SLP stockholders; and the requirement that (1) the holders of the Class A Common Stock, voting separately as a series, (2) the holders of the Class B Common Stock, voting separately as a series, and (3) the MD stockholders and SLP stockholders, in each case, so long as they own any common stock, approve amendments to certain provisions of Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation, including provisions related to authorized capital stock and the size and structure of the board of directors. 31 Table of Contents Further, as a Delaware corporation, Dell Technologies is subject to provisions of Delaware law that may deter a takeover attempt that its stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay, or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of Dell Technologies, including actions that its stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of its common stock, including the Class C Common Stock. These provisions also could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for Dell Technologies stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause Dell Technologies to take other corporate actions that may be supported by its stockholders. Dell Technologies board of directors is authorized to issue and designate shares of preferred stock in additional series without stockholder approval. The Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors, without the approval of Dell Technologies stockholders, to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of blank check preferred stock, subject to limitations prescribed by applicable law, rules, and regulations and the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, as shares of preferred stock in series, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series and to fix the designation, powers, preferences, and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations, or restrictions thereof. The powers, preferences, and rights of these additional series of preferred stock may be senior to or on parity with Dell Technologies series of common stock, including the Class C Common Stock, which may reduce the value of the Class C Common Stock. Dell Technologies is controlled by the MD stockholders, and the MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders collectively own a substantial majority of its common stock. By reason of their ownership of Class A Common Stock possessing a majority of the aggregate votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares of Dell Technologies common stock voting together as a single class, the MD stockholders have the ability to approve any matter submitted to the vote of all of the outstanding shares of the common stock voting together as a single class. Through their control of Dell Technologies, the MD stockholders are able to control actions to be taken by Dell Technologies, including actions related to the election of directors of Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries (including VMware, Inc. and its subsidiaries), amendments to Dell Technologies organizational documents and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers, sales of substantially all of Dell Technologies assets, distributions of Dell Technologies assets, the incurrence of indebtedness, and any incurrence of liens on Dell Technologies assets. For example, although the Dell Technologies bylaws provide that the number of directors will be fixed by resolution of the board of directors, the stockholders of Dell Technologies may adopt, amend or repeal the bylaws in accordance with Section 109 of the Delaware General Corporation. Through their control of Dell Technologies, the MD stockholders may therefore amend the bylaws to change the number of directors (within the limits of the certificate of incorporation), notwithstanding any determination by the board of directors regarding board size. Further, as of February 1, 2019, the MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders collectively beneficially owned 76.4% of Dell Technologies outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership together with the disparate voting rights of Dell Technologies common stock may delay or deter possible changes in control of Dell Technologies, which may reduce the value of an investment in the Class C Common Stock. So long as the MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders continue to own common stock representing a significant amount of the combined voting power of Dell Technologies outstanding common stock, even if such amount is, individually or in the aggregate, less than 50%, such stockholders will continue to be able to strongly influence Dell Technologies decisions. Further, the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders, respectively, have the right to nominate a number of individuals for election as Group I Directors which is equal to the percentage of the total voting power for the regular election of directors beneficially owned by the MD stockholders or by the SLP stockholders multiplied by the number of directors then on the board of directors who are not members of the audit committee, rounded up to the nearest whole number. In addition, so long as the MD stockholders or the SLP stockholders each beneficially own at least 5% of all outstanding shares of the common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, each of the MD stockholders or the SLP stockholders, as applicable, are entitled to nominate at least one individual for election as a Group I Director. 32 Table of Contents The MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders and their respective affiliates may have interests that conflict with the interests of other stockholders or those of Dell Technologies. In the ordinary course of their business activities, the MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders and their respective affiliates may engage in activities where their interests conflict with interests of other stockholders or those of Dell Technologies. The Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation provides that none of the MD stockholders, MSD Partners, L.P., the MSD Partners stockholders, Silver Lake Partners III, L.P. and the SLP stockholders, any of their respective affiliates or any director or officer of the Company who is also a director, officer, employee, managing director or other affiliate of MSD Partners, L.P. or Silver Lake Partners III, L.P. (other than Michael Dell) have any duty to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which Dell Technologies operates. The MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to Dell Technologies business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to Dell Technologies. In addition, such stockholders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance the value of their investment in Dell Technologies, even though such transactions might involve risks to other stockholders. Because Dell Technologies is a controlled company within the meaning of NYSE rules and, as a result, qualifies for, and relies on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, holders of Class C Common Stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. Dell Technologies is a controlled company within the meaning of NYSE rules because the MD stockholders hold common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors. As a controlled company, Dell Technologies may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements under NYSE rules, including the requirements that: Dell Technologies have a board that is composed of a majority of independent directors, as defined under NYSE rules; Dell Technologies have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and Dell Technologies have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. Dell Technologies is utilizing these exemptions and expects to continue to utilize the exemptions. As a result, a majority of the directors on the board of directors are not independent directors as defined under NYSE rules and none of the committees of the board of directors, other than the audit committee, consists entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, holders of Class C Common Stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSEs corporate governance requirements. The Dell Technologies board of directors has formed an executive committee of the board consisting entirely of directors designated by the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders, and has delegated a substantial portion of the power and authority of the board of directors to the executive committee. The board of directors has formed an executive committee of the board consisting entirely of directors designated by the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders (none of whom have been affirmatively determined by the board of directors to be independent directors), and has delegated a substantial portion of the power and authority of the board of directors to the executive committee. The executive committee has been delegated the boards power and authority, subject to specified limits, to review and approve, with respect to Dell Technologies and its subsidiaries, among other matters, acquisitions and dispositions, the annual budget and business plan, the incurrence of indebtedness, entry into material commercial agreements, joint ventures and strategic alliances, and the commencement and settlement of material litigation. In addition, as of the date of this report, the executive committee acted as the compensation committee of the board of directors. The interests of the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders with respect to the foregoing matters may differ materially from the interests of the holders of Class C Common Stock. 33 Table of Contents The Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation designates a state court of the State of Delaware or the federal district court for the District of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by Dell Technologies stockholders, which could limit the ability of the holders of Class C Common Stock to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with Dell Technologies or with directors, officers, or the controlling stockholders of Dell Technologies. Under the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation, unless Dell Technologies consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum will be a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) for: any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of Dell Technologies; any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies to Dell Technologies or Dell Technologies stockholders; any action asserting a claim against Dell Technologies or any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or of the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Dell Technologies; or any action asserting a claim against Dell Technologies or any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies governed by the internal affairs doctrine. These provisions of the Dell Technologies certificate of incorporation could limit the ability of the holders of the Class C Common Stock to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with Dell Technologies or with directors, officers, or the controlling stockholders of Dell Technologies, which may discourage such lawsuits against Dell Technologies and its directors, officers, and stockholders. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of its organizational documents inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, Dell Technologies may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect its business, financial condition, and results of operations. The exclusive forum provisions of the certificate of incorporation are not intended to apply to claims under the federal securities laws. Dell Technologies is obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting and any failure to do so may adversely affect investor confidence in Dell Technologies and, as a result, the value of the Class C Common Stock. Dell Technologies is required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to furnish an annual report by management on, among other matters, its assessment of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. The assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by Dell Technologies management in its report. Dell Technologies also is required to disclose significant changes made in its internal control over financial reporting. In addition, Dell Technologies independent registered public accounting firm is required to express an opinion each year as to the effectiveness of Dell Technologies internal control over financial reporting. The process of designing, implementing, and testing internal control over financial reporting is time-consuming, costly, and complicated. During the evaluation and testing process of its internal controls, if Dell Technologies identifies one or more material weaknesses in its internal control over financial reporting, Dell Technologies will be unable to assert that its internal control over financial reporting is effective. Dell Technologies may experience material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit Dell Technologies ability to issue accurate reports of its financial condition or results of operations. If Dell Technologies is unable to conclude that its internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if Dell Technologies independent registered public accounting firm determines that Dell Technologies has a material weakness or significant deficiencies in its internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of Dell Technologies financial reports, the market price of the Class C Common Stock could decline and Dell Technologies could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in Dell Technologies internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, also could restrict future access to the capital markets by Dell Technologies or its subsidiaries. 34 Table of Contents ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2 PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices and global headquarters are located at One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas. As of February 1, 2019, as shown in the following table, we owned or leased 31.5 million square feet of office, manufacturing, and warehouse space worldwide: Owned Leased (in millions) U.S. facilities 10.2 5.5 International facilities 4.5 11.3 Total (a) 14.7 16.8 ____________________ (a) Includes 2.3 million square feet of subleased or vacant space. As of February 1, 2019, our facilities consisted of business centers, which include facilities that contain operations for sales, technical support, administrative, and support functions; manufacturing operations; and research and development centers. Because of the interrelation of the products and services offered in each of our segments, we generally do not designate our properties to any segment. With limited exceptions, each property is used at least in part by all of our segments, and we retain the flexibility to make future use of each of the properties available to each of the segments. Of our properties as of February 1, 2019, approximately 5.0 million square feet of space that house executive and administrative offices, research and development, sales and marketing functions, and data centers were used solely by our VMware segment. We believe that our existing properties are suitable and adequate for our current needs and that we can readily meet our requirements for additional space at competitive rates by extending expiring leases or by finding alternative space. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption Legal Matters in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II