Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Business Unit Results and Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our reportable segment operating results. Recurring Revenue and Consumption Models Our customers are seeking new and innovative models that address how they consume our solutions. We offer options including as-a-Service, utility, leases, and immediate pay models, all designed to match customers consumption and financing preferences. We continue to evolve and build momentum across our family of as-a-Service offerings as we pursue our strategy of modernizing our core business solutions, with APEX at the forefront. We expect that our flexible consumption models and as-a-Service offerings will further strengthen our customer relationships and provide a foundation for growth in recurring revenue. These offerings typically result in multiyear agreements which generate recurring revenue streams over the term of the arrangements. We define recurring revenue as revenue recognized primarily related to hardware and software maintenance as well as subscription, as-a-Service, and usage based offerings, and operating leases. Dell Financial Services DFS supports our businesses by offering and arranging various financing options and services for our customers globally. DFS originates, collects, and services customer receivables primarily related to the purchase or use of our product, software, and services solutions. We also arrange financing for some of our customers in various countries where DFS does not currently operate as a captive entity. DFS further strengthens our customer relationships through its flexible consumption models which provide our customers with financial flexibility to meet their changing technological requirements. Our flexible consumption models enable us to offer our customers the option to pay over time and, in certain cases, based on utilization. The results of these operations are allocated to our segments based on the underlying product or service financed. For additional information about our financing arrangements, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Research and Development We focus on developing scalable technology solutions that incorporate desirable features and capabilities at competitive prices. We employ a collaborative approach to product design and development in which our engineers, with direct customer input, design innovative solutions and work with a global network of technology companies to architect new system designs, influence the direction of future development, and integrate new technologies into our products. Our team of software engineers is focused on developing the next generation of solutions for new and innovative technologies. Most of our research and development (R&D) expenditures represent costs to develop the software that powers our solutions. This software simplifies the complex through automation, increasingly leveraging artificial intelligence and machine-learning technology. We manage our R&D spending by targeting those innovations and solutions that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by relying on the capabilities of our strategic relationships. Our customer base includes a growing number of service providers, such as cloud service providers, Software-as-a-Service companies, consumer webtech providers, and telecommunications companies. These service providers turn to Dell Technologies for our advanced solutions that enable efficient service delivery at cloud scale. Through our collaborative, customer-focused approach to innovation, we strive to deliver new and relevant products to the market quickly and efficiently. Additionally, we invest in early-stage, privately-held companies that develop software, hardware, and other technologies or provide services supporting our technologies. We manage our investments through our venture capital investment arm, Dell Technologies Capital. Dell Technologies has a global R&D presence, with total R&D expenses of $2.6 billion, $2.5 billion, and $2.5 billion , for Fiscal 2022, Fiscal 2021, and Fiscal 2020, respectively. These investments reflect our commitment to R&D activities that ultimately support our mission to help our customers build their digital future and to transform IT. 8 Table of Contents Manufacturing and Materials We own manufacturing facilities located in the United States, Malaysia, China, Brazil, India, Poland, and Ireland. See Item 2 Properties for information about our manufacturing and distribution facilities. We also utilize contract manufacturers throughout the world to manufacture or assemble our products under the Dell Technologies brand as part of our strategy to enhance our variable cost structure and to achieve our goals of generating cost efficiencies, delivering products faster, better serving our customers, and enhancing our supply chain. Our manufacturing process consists of assembly, software installation, functional testing, and quality control. We conduct operations utilizing a formal, documented quality management system to ensure that our products and services satisfy customer needs and expectations. Testing and quality control are also applied to components, parts, sub-assemblies, and systems obtained from third-party suppliers. Our quality management system is maintained through the testing of components, sub-assemblies, software, and systems at various stages in the manufacturing process. Quality control procedures also include a burn-in period for completed units after assembly, ongoing production reliability audits, failure tracking for early identification of production and component problems, and processing of information from customers obtained through services and support programs. This system is certified to the ISO 9001 International Standard that includes our global sites and organizations that design, manufacture, and service our products. Our order fulfillment, manufacturing, and test facilities are certified to the ISO 14001 International Standard for environmental management systems, the ISO 45001 International Standard for health and safety management systems, and the ISO 50001 International Standard for energy management systems. These internationally-recognized endorsements of ongoing quality, environmental, health and safety, and energy management are among the highest levels of certifications available. We also have implemented programs and methodologies to ensure that the quality of our designs, manufacturing, test processes, and supplier relationships are continually improved. We maintain a Supplier Code of Conduct, actively manage recycling processes for our returned products, and are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency as a Smartway Transport Partner. We purchase materials, supplies, product components, and products from a large number of qualified suppliers. In some cases, where multiple sources of supply are not available, we rely on a single source or a limited number of sources of supply if we believe it is advantageous to do so because of performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. We believe that any disruption that may occur because of our dependence on single- or limited-source vendors would not disproportionately disadvantage us relative to our competitors. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry Reliance on vendors for products and components, many of which are single-source or limited-source suppliers, could harm our business by adversely affecting product availability, delivery, reliability, and cost for information about the risks associated with Dell Technologies use of single- or limited-source suppliers. Geographic Operations Our global corporate headquarters is located in Round Rock, Texas. We have operations and conduct business in many countries located in the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Asia, and other geographic regions. To increase our global presence, we continue to focus on emerging markets outside of the United States, Western Europe, Canada, and Japan. We continue to view these geographical markets, which include the vast majority of the worlds population, as a long-term growth opportunity. Accordingly, we pursue the development of technology solutions that meet the needs of these markets. Our expansion in emerging markets creates additional complexity in coordinating the design, development, procurement, manufacturing, distribution, and support of our product and services offerings. For information about the amount of net revenue we generated from our operations outside of the United States during the last three fiscal years, see Note 19 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report. Seasonality Our sales are affected by seasonal trends. Among the trends with the most significant effect on our operating results, sales to government customers (particularly the U.S. government) generally are stronger in our third fiscal quarter, sales in Europe, the Middle East and Africa are often weaker in our third fiscal quarter, and sales to consumers are typically strongest during our fourth fiscal quarter. 9 Table of Contents Competition We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and services offerings. We face ongoing product and price competition in all areas of our business, including from both branded and generic competitors. We compete based on our ability to offer customers competitive, scalable, and integrated solutions that provide the most current and desired product and services features at a competitive price. We closely monitor market pricing and solutions trends, including the effect of foreign exchange rate movements, in an effort to provide the best value for our customers. We believe that our strong relationships with our customers and channel partners allow us to respond quickly to changing customer needs and other macroeconomic factors. We also face competition from non-traditional IT companies such as cloud service providers, also known as hyperscalers, that buy their infrastructure directly from original design manufacturers. Competitive pressures could increase if customers choose to move application workloads to cloud service providers away from traditional or private data centers. The markets in which we compete are comprised of large and small companies across all areas of our business. We believe that new businesses will continue to enter these markets and develop technologies that, if commercialized, may compete with our products and services. Moreover, current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, which may further increase the competitive pressures. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry for information about our competitive risks. Sales and Marketing Our sales efforts are organized around the evolving needs of our customers, and our marketing initiatives reflect this focus. Our unified global sales and marketing team creates a sales organization that is customer-focused, collaborative, and innovative. O ur customers include large global and national enterprises, public institutions that include governmental agencies, educational institutions, healthc are organizations, and law enforcement agencies, small and medium-sized businesses, and consumers. Go-to-market strategy We sell products and services directly to customers and through other sales channels, which include value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers. We continue to pursue our direct business strategy, which emphasizes direct communication with customers, thereby allowing us to refine our products and marketing programs for specific customer groups. In addition to our direct business model, we use our network of channel partners to sell our products and services, enabling us to efficiently serve a greater number of customers. The Dell Technologies partner program contributes to the development of channel sales by providing appropriate incentives to encourage sales generation. We also facilitate access to third-party financing to help our channel partners manage their working capital. We believe that building long-term relationships with our channel partners enhances our ability to deliver an excellent customer experience. During Fiscal 2022, our other sales channels contributed over 50% of our net revenue. Large enterprises and public institutions For large enterprises and public institutions, we maintain a field sales force throughout the world. Dedicated account teams, which include technical sales specialists, form long-term relationships to provide our largest customers with a single source of assistance, develop tailored solutions for these customers, position the capabilities of Dell Technologies, and provide us with customer feedback. For these customers, we offer several programs designed to provide single points of contact and accountability with dedicated account managers, special pricing, and consistent service and support programs. We also maintain specific sales and marketing programs targeting federal, state, and local governmental agencies, as well as healthcare and educational customers. Small and medium-sized business and consumers We market our products and services to small and medium-sized businesses and consumers through various advertising media. To react quickly to our customers needs, we track our Net Promoter Score, a customer loyalty metric that is widely used across various industries. Net Promoter Score is a trademark of Satmetrix Systems, Inc., Bain & Company, Inc., and Fred Reichheld. We also engage with customers through our social media communities on our website and in external social media channels. 10 Table of Contents Product Backlog Product backlog represents the value of unfulfilled manufacturing orders and is included as a component of remaining performance obligations to the extent we determine that the manufacturing orders are non-cancelable. Our business model generally gives us the ability to optimize product backlog at any point in time, such as by expediting shipping or prioritizing customer orders for products that have shorter lead times. During Fiscal 2022, we were impacted by industry-wide constraints in the supply of limited-source components in certain product offerings as a result of the impacts of COVID-19. Further, global economic recovery led to growth in demand that outpaced supply and, as a result, we experienced elevated backlog and extended lead times for our customers in certain offerings. Patents, Trademarks, and Licenses As of January 28, 2022, we held a worldwide portfolio of 18,570 granted patents and 7,619 pending patent applications. As a result of the VMware Spin-off, patents and patent applications held by VMware are no longer being reported as part of our portfolio. We continue to obtain new patents through our ongoing research and development activities. The inventions claimed in our patents and patent applications cover aspects of our current and possible future computer system and software products, manufacturing processes, and related technologies. We also hold licenses to use numerous third-party patents. Although we use our patented inventions and license some of them to others, we are not substantially dependent on any single patent or group of related patents. Our product and process patents may establish barriers to entry, and we anticipate that our worldwide patent portfolio will continue to be of value in negotiating intellectual property rights with others in the industry. We have used, registered, or applied to register certain trademarks and copyrights in the United States and in other countries. We believe that Dell Technologies, DELL, Dell EMC, Alienware, Secureworks, and Virtustream word marks and logo marks in the United States are material to our operations. We have entered into software licensing agreements with other companies. We also license certain technology and intellectual property from third parties for use in our offerings and processes, and license some of our technologies and intellectual property to third parties. Government Regulation Our business is subject to regulation by various U.S. federal and state governmental agencies and other governmental agencies. Such regulation includes the activities of the U.S. Federal Communications Commission; the anti-trust regulatory activities of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Department of Justice, and the European Union; the consumer protection laws and financial services regulation of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and various state governmental agencies; the export regulatory activities of the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of the Treasury; the import regulatory activities of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection; the product safety regulatory activities of the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission and the U.S. Department of Transportation; the health information privacy and security requirements of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; and the environmental, employment and labor, and other regulatory activities of a variety of governmental authorities in each of the countries in which we conduct business. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, performance and safety regulations in all areas in which we conduct business. Product design and procurement operations must comply with requirements relating to materials composition, sourcing, radiated emissions, energy efficiency and collection, recycling, treatment, transportation, and disposal of electronics products, including restrictions on mercury, lead, cadmium, lithium metal, lithium ion, and other substances. Operations may also become subject to new or emergent standards relating to climate change laws and regulations. The costs and timing of costs under environmental and safety laws are difficult to predict. We were not assessed any material environmental fines, nor did we have any material environmental remediation or other environmental costs, during Fiscal 2022. We and our subsidiaries are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and are also subject to export controls, customs, economic sanctions laws, including those currently imposed on Russia, and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-corruption laws or export control, customs, or economic sanctions laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties. 11 Table of Contents We are subject to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act intended to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. We incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. Environmental, Social, and Governance Dell Technologies is committed to driving human progress by putting our technology and expertise to work where it can do the most good for both people and the planet. We recognize that all of our stakeholders shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, and communities as well as the environment and society, are essential to our business. In November 2019, Dell Technologies announced its social impact goals and plan for 2030 called Progress Made Real (the 2030 Plan). Our goals under the 2030 Plan represent an extension of our purpose as a company to create technologies that drive human progress. We are using these goals to build our social impact strategies over the next decade. The 2030 Plan has four critical areas of focus: Advancing Sustainability We believe we have a responsibility to protect and enrich our planet together with our customers, suppliers, and communities. In working across our business ecosystem, Dell Technologies will continue valuing natural resources and seeking to minimizing our impact. With the power of our global supply chain, Dell Technologies has the scale and responsibility to pursue the highest standards of sustainability and ethical practices. Cultivating Inclusion We view diversity and inclusion as a business imperative that will enable us to build and empower our future workforce. It is essential that our workforce be fully representative of the diversity in our global customer base. Diversity of leadership increases innovation and ensures that company decisions reflect a wide variety of perspectives. Transforming Lives We believe our scale, support, and the innovative application of our portfolio can play an important role in advancing fundamental human rights and addressing complex societal challenges, including improving health, education, and economic opportunities for the underserved. We endeavor to harness the power of technology to create a future that is capable of realizing human potential. Upholding Ethics and Privacy Ethics and privacy play a critical role in establishing a strong foundation for positive social impact. We are committed to ensuring that new talent and existing team members align to our ethical culture. We will continue to invest in our advanced privacy governance and risk-management technology and continue seeking to select, evaluate, and do business with third parties who share our level of dedication to ethics and privacy. Dell Technologies measures its progress against each goal under the 2030 Plan in its annually released reports available on our website. Climate Change At Dell Technologies, we believe that by addressing climate change, we are demonstrating our commitment to protect our planet and the community. We have a responsibility to manage the greenhouse gas emissions associated with our direct and indirect footprint, and technology plays an important role in this undertaking. We aim to reach net zero emissions across Scopes 1, 2 and 3 by 2050. Human Capital Management We are a diverse team with unique perspectives, united in our purpose, our strategy, and our culture. Our goal is to ensure that employees of different backgrounds feel valued, engaged, and inspired to do their best work. Through our ongoing diversity and inclusion efforts, flexible workplace transformation programs, training and development offerings, and health and wellness resources for our employees, we are striving to attract, develop and retain an empowered workforce for maximum impact internally and externally for our customers and communities. We believe in winning with integrity, and we leverage technology and deploy state-of-the-art tools to assist our team members in applying the principles of integrity and compliance as part of everyday business transactions, activities, and decisions. We seek to support our culture in four key focus areas: diversity and inclusion, achievement, balance, and connection. 12 Table of Contents Diversity and Inclusion At Dell Technologies, we believe diversity is power. Within our 2030 Plan, one critical area of focus cultivating inclusion highlights how our human capital resources are vital to our social impact and long-term success. Cultivating inclusion is a core component of our culture, and we believe that closing the diversity gap is critical to meeting future talent needs and ensuring that new perspectives reflect our global customer base. We are committed to equal employment opportunity for all and upholding ethics and integrity in all we do and will continue to champion for inclusive policies that support full-spectrum diversity. As of January 28, 2022, we had approximately 133,000 employees, approximately 32% of whom were located in the United States. Excluding employees of Secureworks, the overall representation of employees who self-identify as women was approximately 34%. Of our global people leaders, 28% self-identified as women. We define people leaders as employees in a job management level or executive or manager position. As of the same date, our U.S. employee base was comprised of employees who self-identified with the following ethnicities: 65% as White or Caucasian; 15% as Asian; 9% as Hispanic or Latino; 6% as Black or African American; 2% with two or more races; and 1% with additional groups (including American Indian, Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander). Approximately 2% of our U.S. employee base did not self-report or specify ethnicity status. Of our U.S. people leaders, 12% self-identified as Hispanic or Latino or as Black or African American. As the composition of the workforce evolves, we recognize that companies embracing diversity and inclusion are experiencing greater innovation, productivity, engagement, and employee satisfaction. We are committed to increasing gender and ethnic diversity throughout Dell Technologies and, as part of our 2030 Plan, have established goals focused on this objective. We seek to achieve the following diversity goals within our workforce (excluding employees of Secureworks): By 2030, 50% of our global workforce and 40% of our global people leaders will be those who self-identify as women. By 2030, 25% of our U.S. workforce and 15% of our U.S. people leaders will be those who self-identify as Black or African American or as Hispanic or Latino. We seek to meet these goals by: building and attracting the future workforce to create a workplace that is accessible, equitable and attractive to a diverse talent pipeline; developing and retaining an empowered workforce to foster an internal community that is engaged, productive, and innovative; and expanding our impact beyond our four walls, to build stronger customer relationships and external community that recognizes, respects and embraces our shared value. We still have work to do, and plan to provide transparency into our progress via annual reporting available on the social impact reporting page of our website. Achievement through Learning, Development, and Total Rewards We offer a competitive and comprehensive benefits package and strive to provide the best choice and value at the best cost. Our comprehensive rewards programs are designed to attract, reward, and retain high-quality talent and to inspire employees to be their best and do their best work for our customers and the growth of our business. We recognize and reward performance through awards aligned with business strategy and individual objectives while supporting team members mental, physical, and financial health, and promoting workplace flexibility and connection. Further, Dell Technologies focus on cultivating inclusion is an important component of our total rewards philosophy we believe that equal pay is a business imperative and we are committed to it. We provide a multitude of programs to enhance employees career growth and development. We offer formal training options, individualized development programs and sponsorship, tools for 360-degree feedback, mentoring, networking, stretch assignments, and growth opportunities. Our programs are designed to empower and inspire employees to direct their own career paths and build a portfolio of valuable skills for success in the technology industry. We are committed to building a diverse leadership pipeline with a broad spectrum of skills, including the ability to lead with integrity and inspire others. 13 Table of Contents Balance and Wellness Work flexibility is part of our culture and has been critical to our success throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Dell Technologies has built tools and a culture that provide choice and flexibility to employees, the majority of whom continue to work in a mostly virtual environment. Dells Connected Workplace program allows eligible employees to choose from a variety of flexible work arrangement options that best meet their needs and is now available in 84 countries globally. We have implemented pandemic-specific protocols for employees whose jobs require them to be on-site or with customers and are deploying return-to-site processes based on ongoing assessments of local conditions. We support our employees wellness through a comprehensive approach focused on mental, physical, and financial health, flexibility, and connection. We provide wellness resources to help employees and their families develop and sustain healthy habits. We further support employee wellness via regular communications, virtual live and on-demand educational sessions, voluntary progress tracking, wellness challenges, paid personal wellness time, and other incentives. Connection and Engagement We believe that employee feedback is an important part of our culture and how we drive our strategy. Through our annual Tell Dell survey, employees can confidentially voice their perceptions of our Company, their work experience, and ways in which Dell Technologies can improve. We drive further employee engagement and connection through a variety of initiatives including, but not limited to, our member listening strategy and our Employee Resource Groups (ERGs). We have a total of 13 unique ERGs, such as the Black Networking Alliance, Women in Action, and Planet. Our ERGs cultivate inclusion and bring many collective voices together for a greater business impact. Our ERGs also provide personal and professional development through networking opportunities, mentoring, volunteerism, and community involvement. Supply Chain Resources We manage our responsible business practices in one of the worlds largest supply chains, which involves hundreds of thousands of people around the world. We continue our efforts to drive responsible manufacturing through robust assurance practices including human rights due diligence and environmental stewardship. We recognize that looking after the wellbeing of people in our supply chain is important and have set goals for our work in this area, including: providing healthy work environments; delivering future-ready skills development for employees in our supply chain; and continuing our engagement with the people who make our products. We support supplier employees at all levels with training on key topics, including forced labor and health and safety, and we continue to work with suppliers to deliver training directly to employees via their mobile phones. Through this program, Dell Technologies covers the cost of developing training modules and shares training costs with suppliers who deliver them. Dell Technologies works to ensure that we and our suppliers manufacture our products responsibly, in part through our social and environmental responsibility assurance program. Through audits conducted under this program, we seek to monitor a supplier factorys adherence to the Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) Code of Conduct. Audits are conducted by third-party auditors that have been trained and certified by the RBA. The audits cover topics across five areas: labor, including risks of forced labor and weekly working hours; employee health and safety; environment; ethics; and management systems. Through our audit program, we aim to identify and solve concerns in our supply chain, and seek continuous improvements to address issues and enable suppliers to build their own in-house capabilities. We supplement our audits with targeted assessments of suppliers when we identify opportunities to drive further improvements. Our supply chain sustainability progress is available through annual reporting on the social impact reporting page of our website. 14 Table of Contents Corporate Information We are a holding company that conducts our operations through subsidiaries. The mailing address of our principal executive offices is One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas 78682. Our telephone number is 1-800-289-3355. Our website address is www.delltechnologies.com. We make available free of charge through our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The information on, or accessible through, our website referred to above or any other website we refer to in this report is not part of, and is not incorporated by reference into, this report. Information about our Executive Officers The following table sets forth, as of March 4, 2022, information about our executive officers, who are appointed by our board of directors. Name Age Position Michael S. Dell 57 Chief Executive Officer and Chairman Jeffrey W. Clarke 59 Co-Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman Allison Dew 52 Chief Marketing Officer Howard D. Elias 64 Chief Customer Officer and President, Services and Digital Richard J. Rothberg 58 General Counsel Jennifer D. Saavedra, Ph.D. 52 Chief Human Resources Officer William F. Scannell 59 President, Global Sales and Customer Operations Thomas W. Sweet 62 Chief Financial Officer Anthony Charles Whitten 45 Co-Chief Operating Officer Michael S. Dell Mr. Dell serves as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Dell Technologies. Mr. Dell served as Chief Executive Officer of Dell Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies, from 1984 until July 2004 and resumed that role in January 2007. In 1998, Mr. Dell formed MSD Capital, L.P., a private investment firm that exclusively manages the capital for the Dell family, and, in 1999, he and his wife established the Michael & Susan Dell Foundation to accelerate opportunity for children growing up in urban poverty in the United States, India, or South Africa. He is an honorary member of the Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum and is an executive committee member of the International Business Council. He serves as a member of the Technology CEO Council and is a member of the Business Roundtable. He also serves on the advisory board of Tsinghua Universitys School of Economics and Management in Beijing, China, on the governing board of the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad, India, and as a board member of Catalyst, Inc., a non-profit organization that promotes inclusive workplaces for women. In June 2014, Mr. Dell was named the United Nations Foundations first Global Advocate for Entrepreneurship. Mr. Dell is also Chairman of the Board of Directors of VMware, Inc. and Non-Executive Chairman of SecureWorks Corp., a public majority-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies. Mr. Dell was a board member of Pivotal Software, Inc., formerly a public majority-owned subsidiary of Dell Technologies that provides a leading cloud-native platform, from September 2016 until it was merged with VMware, Inc. in December 2019. Jeffrey W. Clarke Mr. Clarke serves as Co-Chief Operating Officer and Vice Chairman of Dell Technologies, responsible for running day-to-day business operations, shaping the Companys strategic agenda, and setting priorities across the Dell Technologies executive leadership team. In partnership with Mr. Whitten, Mr. Clarke directs the Infrastructure Solutions Group and the Client Solutions Group and manages Global Operations, including manufacturing, procurement, and supply chain. He is also responsible for setting the long-term strategy and leads planning for emerging technology areas such as Cloud, Edge, Telecom, and as-a-Service. Mr. Clarke has served as Co-Chief Operating Officer since August 2021, Chief Operating Officer from December 2019 to August 2021 and Vice Chairman, Products and Operations since September 2017, before which he served as Vice Chairman and President, Operations and Client Solutions with Dell Technologies and, previously, Dell, since January 2009. From January 2003 until January 2009, Mr. Clarke served as Senior Vice President, Business Product Group. From November 2001 to January 2003, Mr. Clarke served as Vice President and General Manager, Relationship Product Group. In 1995, Mr. Clarke became the director of desktop development. Mr. Clarke joined Dell in 1987 15 Table of Contents as a quality engineer and has served in a variety of other engineering and management roles. Before joining Dell Technologies, Mr. Clarke served as a reliability and product engineer at Motorola, Inc. Allison Dew Ms. Dew serves as the Chief Marketing Officer of Dell Technologies. In this role, in which she has served since March 2018, Ms. Dew is directly responsible for the global marketing organization, strategy, and all aspects of Dell Technologies marketing efforts, including brand and creative, product marketing, communications, digital, and field and channel marketing. Since joining Dell Technologies in 2008, Ms. Dew has been instrumental in Dell Technologies marketing transformation, leading an emphasis on data-driven marketing, customer understanding, and integrated planning. Most recently, prior to her current position, Ms. Dew led marketing for the Dell Technologies Client Solutions Group from December 2013 to March 2018. Before joining Dell Technologies, Ms. Dew served in various marketing leadership roles at Microsoft Corporation, a global technology company. Ms. Dew also worked in both a regional advertising shop in Tokyo, Japan and an independent multicultural agency in New York. Howard D. Elias Mr. Elias serves as Chief Customer Officer and President, Services and Digital at Dell Technologies. He leads a global organization devoted to customer advocacy and oversees global support, deployment, consulting, education, managed services, the IT organization, and Virtustream. He is executive sponsor for more than a dozen of Dell Technologies largest enterprise accounts and is responsible for setting and driving strategy to enable and accelerate the mission-critical business transformations of customers and Dells own global operations. Mr. Elias previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer, EMC Global Enterprise Services from January 2013 until EMCs acquisition by Dell Technologies in September 2016, and was President and Chief Operating Officer, EMC Information Infrastructure and Cloud Services from September 2009 to January 2013. In these roles, Mr. Elias was responsible for setting the strategy, driving the execution, and creating the best practices for services that enabled the digital transformation and data center modernization of EMCs customers. Mr. Elias also had responsibility at EMC for leading the integration of the Dell and EMC businesses, including overseeing the cross-functional teams that drove all facets of integration planning. Previously, Mr. Elias was EMCs Executive Vice President, Global Marketing and Corporate Development, responsible for all marketing, sales enablement, technology alliances, corporate development, and new ventures. Mr. Elias was also a co-founder and served on the board of managers for the Virtual Computing Environment Company, now part of Dell Technologies converged platform division. Before joining EMC, Mr. Elias served in various capacities at Hewlett-Packard Company, a provider of information technology products, services, and solutions for enterprise customers, most recently as Senior Vice President of Business Management and Operations for the Enterprise Systems Group. Mr. Elias currently serves as chairman of TEGNA Inc., a media and digital business company, and is a member of the Massachusetts Business Roundtable. Richard J. Rothberg Mr. Rothberg serves as General Counsel and Secretary for Dell Technologies. In this role, in which he has served since November 2013, Mr. Rothberg oversees the global legal department and manages government affairs, compliance, and ethics. He is also responsible for global security. Mr. Rothberg joined Dell in 1999 and has served in critical leadership roles throughout the legal department. He served as Vice President of Legal, supporting Dells businesses in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa region before moving to Singapore in 2008 as Vice President of Legal for the Asia-Pacific and Japan region. Mr. Rothberg returned to the United States in 2010 to serve as Vice President of Legal for the North America and Latin America regions. In this role, he was lead counsel for sales and operations in the Americas and for the enterprise solutions, software, and end-user computing business units. He also led the government affairs organization worldwide. Before joining Dell, Mr. Rothberg served nearly eight years at Caterpillar Inc., an equipment manufacturing company, in senior legal roles in Nashville, Tennessee and Geneva, Switzerland. Mr. Rothberg was also an attorney for IBM Credit Corporation and at Rogers & Wells, a law firm. Jennifer D. Saavedra, Ph.D. Dr. Saavedra is Dell Technologies' Chief Human Resources Officer. In this role, Dr. Saavedra leads Dells Global Human Resources and Facilities function and accelerates the performance and growth of the company through its culture and its people. Dr. Saavedra previously served as Dells Senior Vice President, Human Resources Sales from December 2019 to March 2021 and as Dells Senior Vice President, Human Resources Talent and Culture from November 2017 to December 2019. Dr. Saavedra joined Dell in 2005 and has served in many key leadership roles throughout the Human Resources organization, including talent development and culture, business partner, strategy, and learning and development. Before joining Dell in 2005, Dr. Saavedra served as a Human Resources consultant to private and public companies. 16 Table of Contents William F. Scannell Mr. Scannell serves as President, Global Sales and Customer Operations for Dell Technologies, heading the global go-to-market organization, including Channel, OEM, Global Alliances, and Specialty Sales. In this role, in which he has served since February 2020, Mr. Scannell is responsible for go-to-market strategy and driving global growth by delivering Dell Technologies solutions to organizations in established new markets and in approximately 180 countries around the world. Mr. Scannell previously served as President, Global Enterprise Sales and Customer Operations for Dell Technologies from September 2017 to January 2020, leading the sales teams to deliver innovative and practical technology solutions to large enterprises and public institutions worldwide. Prior to joining Dell Technologies, Mr. Scannell served as President, Global Sales and Customer Operations at EMC Corporation. In this role, to which he was appointed in July 2012 after overseeing customer operations in the Americas and EMEA, Mr. Scannell focused on driving coordination and teamwork among EMCs business unit sales forces, as well as building and maintaining relationships with EMCs largest global accounts, global alliance partners, and global channel partners. Mr. Scannell began his career as an EMC sales representative in 1986, becoming country manager of Canada in 1988. Shortly thereafter, his responsibilities expanded to include the United States and Latin America. In 1999, Mr. Scannell moved to London to oversee EMCs business across all of Europe, Middle East, and Africa. He then managed worldwide sales in 2001 and 2002 before being appointed Executive Vice President in 2007. Thomas W. Sweet Mr. Sweet serves as Chief Financial Officer of Dell Technologies. In this role, in which he has served since January 2014, he is responsible for all aspects of the Companys finance function, including accounting, financial planning and analysis, tax, treasury, and investor relations, as well as global business operations, Dell Financial Services and Dell Technologies Capital. He also leads corporate strategy, partnering closely with the office of the CEO to develop and execute a long-term growth strategy that creates value for Dell Technologies stakeholders. From May 2007 to January 2014, Mr. Sweet served in a variety of finance leadership roles for Dell, including as Vice President of Corporate Finance, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer, with responsibility for global accounting, tax, treasury, and investor relations, as well as for global finance services. Mr. Sweet was responsible for external financial reporting for more than five years when Dell Inc. was a publicly-traded company. Prior to this service, he served in a variety of finance leadership positions, including as Vice President responsible for overall finance activities within the corporate business, education, government, and healthcare business units of Dell. Mr. Sweet also has served as the head of internal audit and in a number of sales leadership roles in education and corporate business units since joining Dell in 1997. Prior to joining Dell, Mr. Sweet was Vice President, Accounting and Finance, for Telos Corporation, a provider of security solutions. He previously spent 13 years with Price Waterhouse, a firm specializing in accounting, assurance, tax, and consulting services, in a variety of roles primarily focused on providing audit and accounting services to the technology industry. Mr. Sweet serves on the board of directors of Trimble Inc., an industrial technology company. Anthony Charles Whitten Mr. Whitten is Co-Chief Operating Officer for Dell Technologies, responsible for managing day-to-day business operations, shaping the Companys strategic agenda and setting priorities across the Dell Technologies executive leadership team. In partnership with Mr. Clarke, Mr. Whitten directs the Infrastructure Solutions Group and the Client Solutions Group and manages Global Operations, including manufacturing, procurement, and supply chain. He is also responsible for setting the long-term strategy and leads planning for emerging technology areas such as Cloud, Edge, Telecom, and as-a-Service. Mr. Whitten joined Dell Technologies in August 2021 from Bain & Company (Bain), a management consulting company, where he served as the managing partner of Bain Southwest and was a two-time elected member of Bains Board of Directors. During his 22-year tenure at Bain, Mr. Whitten supported hundreds of clients across the globe on strategy, company transformation, M&A and capital markets strategy. In the last decade of his career at Bain, he focused exclusively on the technology sector and was intimately involved in shaping the long-term strategy of Dell Technologies. Under his leadership of Bains Southwest region, the business more than doubled, was perennially a top Bain office in employee satisfaction, and was recognized in 2020 and 2021 by Fortune Magazine as one of the best workplaces in Texas. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS Our business, operating results, financial condition, and prospects are subject to a variety of significant risks, many of which are beyond our control. The following is a description of some of the important risk factors that may cause our actual results in future periods to differ substantially from those we currently expect or seek. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. There are additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial that also may materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, or prospects. Risks Relating to Our Business and Our Industry Our spin-off of VMware may not achieve the intended benefits. On November 1, 2021, VMware distributed to its stockholders, including us, a special one-time cash dividend, and we distributed all of the issued and outstanding shares of VMware common stock then owned by us to the holders of record of shares of Dell Technologies as of the distribution record date (the VMware Spin-off). Upon completion of the VMware Spin-off, the businesses of VMware were separated from our remaining businesses, and we and VMware entered into various agreements that will govern our future relationship. Among those agreements, a commercial framework agreement provides a framework under which we and VMware will continue our strategic relationship, particularly with respect to projects we and VMware believe have the potential to accelerate the growth of the industry, product, service, or platform that may provide one or both of our companies with a strategic market opportunity. The VMware Spin-off may not provide the benefits that we intend, including the benefits we seek from a continuation of our strategic relationship with VMware under the commercial framework and other arrangements. There is a potential for business disruption and significant separation costs. The VMware Spin-off could cause our customers to delay or defer decisions to purchase products or renew contracts, or to end their relationships. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the price of our Class C Common Stock. In addition, the combined value of the common stock of the two companies held by our stockholders may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock alone would have been had the proposed VMware Spin-off not occurred. The COVID-19 pandemic may continue to have adverse effects on our business and result in reduced net revenue and profitability. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and associated containment measures have caused economic and financial disruptions globally, affecting regions in which we sell our products and services and in which we conduct our business operations. COVID-19 disruptions continue to impact the demand environment for our ISG products and services. Further, while COVID-19 positively impacted the demand environment for our CSG products and services during Fiscal 2022, we may not experience a continuation of such increased demand at the same level, or at all, for those products and services. Any reduced demand for PC products or a significant increase in competition could cause our operating income to fluctuate and adversely impact our results of operations. Our business in Fiscal 2022 was adversely affected by supply constraints resulting from the pandemic that affected the timing of shipments of certain products in desired quantities or configurations. We also experienced increased freight costs as a result of both expedited shipments of components and rate increases in the freight network as capacity remained constrained. Given the unpredictability, duration, novel variances of the virus, and, at times, the severity of resurgences of the pandemic, we are unable to predict the full impact the pandemic may have on our results of operations, financial condition, liquidity, and cash flows due to numerous uncertainties, including the progression of the pandemic, governmental and other responses, vaccine availability and acceptance, and the timing of economic recovery. We are also unable to predict the extent of the impact of the pandemic on our customers, suppliers, and other partners, which could continue to adversely affect demand for our products and services. Measures taken to contain the COVID-19 pandemic globally, such as travel restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place, and shutdowns as applicable by jurisdiction, have affected and will likely continue to affect our workforce and operations, and those of our vendors, suppliers, and partners. Restrictions on our operations or workforce, or similar limitations for others, may affect our ability to meet customer demand. We have taken and will continue to take risk mitigation actions that we believe are in the best interests of our employees, customers, suppliers, and other partners. Work-from-home and other measures introduce additional operational risks, including heightened cybersecurity risks. These measures may not be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the pandemic, and illness and workforce disruptions could lead to unavailability of key personnel and impair our 18 Table of Contents ability to perform critical functions. The COVID-19 pandemic may continue to cause disruption and volatility in the global debt and capital markets, which may increase our cost of capital and adversely affect our access to capital. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business, results of operations, and financial condition, it also may have the effect of exacerbating the other risks discussed in this Risk Factors section. Developments related to the COVID-19 pandemic have been unpredictable, and additional impacts and risks may arise that we are not aware of or are not able to respond to in an effective manner. Competitive pressures may adversely affect our industry unit share position, revenue, and profitability. We operate in an industry in which there are rapid technological advances in hardware, software, and services offerings. As a result, we face aggressive product and price competition from both branded and generic competitors. We compete based on our ability to offer to our customers integrated solutions that provide desired product and services features at a competitive price. Our competitors may provide products that are less costly, perform better or include additional features. Further, our product portfolios may quickly become outdated or our market share may quickly erode. Efforts to balance the mix of products and services to optimize profitability, liquidity, and growth may put pressure on our industry position. As the technology industry continues to expand, there may be new and increased competition in different geographic regions. The generally low barriers to entry into the technology industry increase the potential for challenges from new competitors. Competition also may intensify from an increase in alternatives for mobile and cloud computing solutions. In addition, companies with which we have strategic alliances may become competitors in other product areas, or current competitors may enter into new strategic relationships with new or existing competitors, all of which may further increase competitive pressures. Reliance on vendors for products and components, many of which are single-source or limited-source suppliers, could harm our business by adversely affecting product availability, delivery, reliability, and cost. We maintain several single-source or limited-source supplier relationships, including relationships with third-party software providers, either because multiple sources are not readily available or because the relationships are advantageous due to performance, quality, support, delivery, capacity, or price considerations. A delay in the supply of a critical single- or limited-source product or component may prevent the timely shipment of the related product in desired quantities or configurations. In addition, we may not be able to replace the functionality provided by third-party software currently offered with our products if that software becomes obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future product versions or is not adequately maintained or updated. Even where multiple sources of supply are available, qualification of the alternative suppliers and establishment of reliable supplies could result in delays and a possible loss of sales, which could harm our operating results. We obtain many products and all of our components from third-party vendors, many of which are located outside of the United States. In addition, significant portions of our products are assembled by contract manufacturers, primarily in various locations in Asia. A significant concentration of such outsourced manufacturing is performed by only a few contract manufacturers, often in single locations. We sell components to these contract manufacturers and generate large non-trade accounts receivables, an arrangement that would present a risk of uncollectibility if the financial condition of a contract manufacturer should deteriorate. Although these relationships generate cost efficiencies, they limit our direct control over production. The increasing reliance on vendors subjects us to a greater risk of shortages and reduced control over delivery schedules of components and products, as well as a greater risk of increases in product and component costs. We experienced some of these adverse effects in Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2021 as a result of COVID-19 impacts. We may experience additional supply shortages and price increases caused by changes to raw material availability, manufacturing capacity, labor shortages, public health issues, tariffs, trade disputes and protectionist measures, natural catastrophes or the effects of climate change (such as extreme weather conditions, sea level rise, drought, flooding and wildfires), and significant changes in the financial condition of our suppliers. Because we maintain minimal levels of component and product inventories, a disruption in component or product availability could harm our ability to satisfy customer needs. In addition, defective parts and products from these vendors could reduce product reliability and harm our reputation. If we fail to achieve favorable pricing from vendors, our profitability could be adversely affected. Our profitability is affected by our ability to achieve favorable pricing from vendors and contract manufacturers, including through negotiations for vendor rebates, marketing funds, and other vendor funding received in the normal course of business. 19 Table of Contents Because these supplier negotiations are continual and reflect the evolving competitive environment, the variability in timing and amount of incremental vendor discounts and rebates can affect our profitability. The vendor programs may change periodically, potentially resulting in adverse profitability trends if we cannot adjust pricing or variable costs. An inability to establish a cost and product advantage, or determine alternative means to deliver value to customers, may adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Adverse global economic conditions may harm our business and result in reduced net revenue and profitability. As a global company with customers operating in a broad range of businesses and industries, our performance is affected by global economic conditions and the demand for technology products and services in international markets. Adverse economic conditions may negatively affect customer demand, and could result in postponed or decreased spending amid customer concerns over unemployment, reduced asset values, volatile energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, and the stability and solvency of financial institutions, financial markets, businesses, local and state governments, and sovereign nations. Weak or unstable global economic conditions, including those attributable to international conflicts, such as the conflict in Ukraine, international trade protection measures and disputes, such as those between the United States and China, or public health issues, such as the outbreak of COVID-19, also could harm our business by contributing to product shortages or delays, supply chain disruptions, insolvency of key suppliers, customer and counterparty insolvencies, increased product costs and associated price increases, reduced global sales, and other adverse effects on our operations. Any such effects could have a negative impact on our net revenue and profitability. The results of operations of our business units may be adversely affected if we fail to successfully execute our strategy. Our strategy involves enabling the digital transformation of our customers while leading in the core infrastructure markets in which we compete. Accordingly, we must continue to expand our customer base through direct sales, new distribution channels, further development of relationships with resellers, and augmentation of selected business areas through targeted acquisitions and other commercial arrangements. As we reach more customers through new distribution channels and expanded reseller relationships, we may fail to effectively manage the increasingly difficult tasks of inventory management and demand forecasting. Our ability to implement this strategy depends on efficiently transitioning sales capabilities, successfully adding to the breadth of our solutions capabilities through selective acquisitions of other businesses, and effective management of the consequences of these strategic initiatives. If we are unable to meet these challenges, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We are organized into two business units consisting of ISG and CSG that are each important components of our strategy. ISG offers a portfolio of storage, server, and networking solutions and faces intense competition from existing on-premises competitors and increasing competitive pressures from public cloud providers. Accordingly, we could be required to make additional investments to combat such competitive pressures and drive future growth. Such pressures could result in the erosion of revenue and operating income and adversely affect ISGs results of operations. To address an industry trend toward hybrid-computing models, we have developed and continue to develop traditional, converged, and hyper-converged infrastructure solutions. ISGs results of operations could be adversely affected if such solutions are not adopted by our customers or potential customers, or if customers move rapidly to adopt public cloud solutions. CSG largely relies on sales of desktops, workstations, and notebooks. Revenue from CSG absorbs our overhead costs and allows for scaled procurement. CSG faces risk and uncertainties from fundamental changes in the personal computer (PC) market, including a decline in worldwide revenues for desktops, workstations, and notebooks, and lower shipment forecasts for these products due to a general lengthening of the replacement cycle. Any reduced demand for PC products or a significant increase in competition could cause our operating income to fluctuate and adversely impact CSGs results of operations. If our cost efficiency measures are not successful, we may become less competitive. We continue to focus on minimizing operating expenses through cost improvements and simplification of our corporate structure. We may experience delays or unanticipated costs in implementing our cost efficiency plans, which could prevent the timely or full achievement of expected cost efficiencies and adversely affect our competitive position. 20 Table of Contents Our inability to manage solutions and product and services transitions in an effective manner could reduce the demand for our solutions, products, and services, and negatively affect the profitability of our operations. Continuing improvements in technology result in the frequent introduction of new solutions, products, and services, improvements in product performance characteristics, and short product life cycles. If we fail to effectively manage transitions to new solutions and offerings, the products and services associated with such offerings and customer demand for our solutions, products, and services could diminish, and our profitability could suffer. We increasingly source new products and transition existing products through our contract manufacturers and manufacturing outsourcing relationships to generate cost efficiencies and better serve our customers. The success of product transitions depends on a number of factors, including the availability of sufficient quantities of components at attractive costs. Product transitions also present execution uncertainties and risks, including the risk that new or upgraded products may have quality problems or other defects. Failure to deliver high-quality products, software, and services could lead to loss of customers and diminished profitability. We must identify and address quality issues associated with its products, software, and services, many of which include third-party components. Although quality testing is performed regularly to detect quality problems and implement required solutions, failure to identify and correct significant product quality issues before the sale of such products to customers could result in lower sales, increased warranty or replacement expenses, and reduced customer confidence, which could harm our operating results. Cyber-attacks and other security incidents that disrupt our operations or result in the breach or other compromise of proprietary or confidential information about us or our workforce, customers, or other third parties could disrupt our business, harm our reputation, cause us to lose clients and expose us to costly regulatory enforcement and litigation. We routinely manage, store, transmit and otherwise process large amounts of proprietary information and confidential data, including sensitive and personally identifiable information, relating to our operations, products, and customers. We face numerous evolving cyber threats of increasing scale, volume, severity, and complexity, making it increasingly difficult to defend against security incidents successfully or to implement adequate preventative measures. Despite our internal controls and significant investment in security measures, criminal or other unauthorized threat actors, including nation states or state-sponsored organizations, may be able to penetrate our security measures, breach our information technology systems, misappropriate or compromise confidential and proprietary information of our company and our customers, cause system disruptions and shutdowns, or introduce ransomware, malware, or vulnerabilities into our products, systems, and networks or those of our customers and partners. Employees, contractors, or other insiders may introduce vulnerabilities into our environments or otherwise may seek to misappropriate our intellectual property and proprietary information. In addition, cyber-attacks are increasingly being used in geopolitical conflicts. The shift to work-from-home and flexible work arrangements resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic also may increase our vulnerability, as employees and contractors of our company and third-party providers are working remotely and using home networks that may pose a significant risk to network and cyber security. In the past, we have experienced security incidents, including the unauthorized activity on our network attempting to extract Dell.com customer information we disclosed in November 2018. The costs to address cyber risks, both before and after a security incident, could be significant, regardless of whether incidents result from an attack on us directly or on third-party vendors upon which we rely. Our third-party vendors continue to experience security incidents of varying severity, including but not limited to increased ransomware attacks, network intrusions, and unauthorized data exfiltration, which have directly and indirectly impacted our operations in the past. Targeted cyber-attacks or those that may result from a security incident directed at a third-party vendor could compromise our internal systems and products and the systems of our customers, resulting in interruptions, delays, or cessation of service that could disrupt business operations for us and our customers. Our proactive measures and remediation efforts may not be successful or timely. In addition, breaches of our security measures and the unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our customers, or other third parties could impair our intellectual property rights and expose us, our customers, or such other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of such information or data. Any such incidents also could subject us to government investigations and regulatory enforcement actions, litigation, potential liability, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business and operations. 21 Table of Contents Hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties also may contain defects in design or manufacture or other deficiencies, including security vulnerabilities that could interfere with the operation or security of our products, services, and offerings. In the event of a security vulnerability or other flaws in third-party components or software code, we may have to rely on multiple third parties to mitigate vulnerability. Such mitigation techniques may be ineffective or may result in adverse performance, system instability or data loss, and may not always be available, or available on a timely basis. Any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or those of third parties we sell, could lead to loss of existing or potential customers, and may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution, outsourcing services, information technology solutions, and other critical functions and offerings. Failure to promptly mitigate security vulnerabilities may adversely affect our brand and reputation and subject us in government investigations, regulatory enforcement actions, litigation and potential liability resulting from our inability to fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers and partners. As a global enterprise, we are subject to an increasing number of laws and regulations in the United States and numerous other countries relating to the collection, use, transfer, and protection of customer data and other sensitive, confidential, and proprietary information. Our ability to execute transactions and to process and use personal information and other data in the conduct of our business and service of our customers subjects us to increased obligations to comply with applicable laws and regulations and may require us to notify regulators, customers, employees, or other individuals or entities of a security incident or data or privacy breach. We continue to incur significant expenditures to comply with mandatory privacy, security, data protection and localization requirements and controls imposed by law, regulation, industry standards and contractual obligations. Despite such expenditures, we may face regulatory and other legal actions, including potential liability, in the event of a security incident or data or privacy breach or perceived or actual non-compliance with such requirements and controls. We may not successfully implement our acquisition strategy, which could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and increased costs. We make strategic acquisitions of other companies as part of our growth strategy. We could experience unforeseen operating difficulties in integrating the businesses, technologies, services, products, personnel, or operations of acquired companies, especially if we are unable to retain the key personnel of an acquired company. Further, future acquisitions may result in a delay or reduction of sales for both us and the acquired company because of customer uncertainty about the continuity and effectiveness of solutions offered by either company and may disrupt our existing business by diverting resources and significant management attention that otherwise would be focused on development of the existing business. Acquisitions also may negatively affect our relationships with strategic partners if the acquisitions are seen as bringing us into competition with such partners. To complete an acquisition, we may be required to use substantial amounts of cash, engage in equity or debt financings, or enter into credit agreements to secure additional funds. Such debt financings could involve restrictive covenants that might limit our capital-raising activities and operating flexibility. Further, an acquisition may negatively affect our results of operations because it may expose us to unexpected liabilities, require the incurrence of charges and substantial indebtedness or other liabilities, have adverse tax consequences, result in acquired in-process research and development expenses, or in the future require the amortization, write-down, or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill, and other intangible assets, or fail to generate a financial return sufficient to offset acquisition costs. In addition, we periodically divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of our strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business and distract management from other responsibilities, and may result in losses on disposition or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification or other financial arrangements, for a period following the transaction, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to generate substantial non-U.S. net revenue is subject to additional risks and uncertainties. Sales outside the United States accounted for approximately half of our consolidated net revenue for Fiscal 2022. Our future growth rates and success are substantially dependent on the continued growth of our business outside of the United States. Our international operations face many risks and uncertainties, including varied local economic and labor conditions; political instability; public health issues; changes in the U.S. and international regulatory environments; the impacts of trade protection measures, including increases in tariffs and trade barriers due to the current geopolitical climate and changes and instability in government policies and international trade arrangements, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct business in non- 22 Table of Contents U.S. markets; changes in tax laws (including laws imposing U.S. taxes on foreign operations); potential theft or other compromise of our technology, data, or intellectual property; copyright levies; and foreign currency exchange rates. Our international operations could suffer as a result of the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, commonly referred to as Brexit, including as a result of modification of trade, immigration, and commercial regulation. We could incur additional operating costs, or sustain supply chain disruptions, due to any such changes. Any of these factors could negatively affect our international business results and growth prospects. Our profitability may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of products and services, customers, or geographic sales, and by seasonal sales trends. Our overall profitability for any period may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of products and services, customers, or geographic markets reflected in sales for that period, and by seasonal trends. Profit margins vary among products, services, customers, and geographic markets. For example, services offerings generally have a higher profit margin than consumer products. In addition, parts of our business are subject to seasonal sales trends. Among the trends with the most significant impact on our operating results, sales to government customers (particularly the U.S. federal government) generally are stronger in our third fiscal quarter, sales in Europe, the Middle East and Africa are often weaker in our third fiscal quarter, and sales to consumers are typically strongest during our fourth fiscal quarter. We may lose revenue opportunities and experience gross margin pressure if sales channel participants fail to perform as expected. We rely on value-added resellers, system integrators, distributors, and retailers as sales channels to complement our direct sales organization in order to reach more end-users. Future operating results depend on the performance of sales channel participants and on our success in maintaining and developing these relationships. Revenue and gross margins could be negatively affected if the financial condition or operations of channel participants weaken as a result of adverse economic conditions or other business challenges, or if uncertainty regarding the demand for our products causes channel participants to reduce their orders for these products. Further, some channel participants may consider the expansion of our direct sales initiatives to conflict with their business interests as distributors or resellers of our products, which could lead them to reduce their investment in the distribution and sale of such products, or to cease all sales of our products. Our financial performance could suffer from reduced access to the capital markets by us or some of our customers. We may access debt and capital sources to provide financing for customers and to obtain funds for general corporate purposes, including working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and funding of customer receivables. In addition, we maintain customer financing relationships with some companies that rely on access to the debt and capital markets to meet significant funding needs. Any inability of these companies to access such markets could compel us to self-fund transactions with such companies or to forgo customer financing opportunities, which could harm our financial performance. The debt and capital markets may experience extreme volatility and disruption from time to time in the future, which could result in higher credit spreads in such markets and higher funding costs for us. Deterioration in our business performance, a credit rating downgrade, volatility in the securitization markets, changes in financial services regulation, or adverse changes in the economy could lead to reductions in the availability of debt financing. In addition, these events could limit our ability to continue asset securitizations or other forms of financing from debt or capital sources, reduce the amount of financing receivables that we originate, or negatively affect the costs or terms on which we may be able to obtain capital. Any of these developments could adversely affect our net revenue, profitability, and cash flows. If the value of goodwill or intangible assets is materially impaired, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. As of January 28, 2022, goodwill and intangible assets, net had a combined carrying value of $27.2 billion, representing approximately 29% of our total consolidated assets. We periodically evaluate goodwill and intangible assets, net to determine whether all or a portion of their carrying values may be impaired, in which case an impairment charge may be necessary. The value of goodwill may be materially and adversely affected if businesses that we acquire perform in a manner that is inconsistent with our assumptions at the time of acquisition. In addition, from time to time we divest businesses, and any such divestiture could result in significant asset impairment and disposition charges, including those related to goodwill and intangible assets, net. Any future evaluations resulting in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, net could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition in the period in which the impairment is recognized. 23 Table of Contents Weak economic conditions and additional regulation could harm our financial services activities. Our financial services activities primarily through DFS are negatively affected by adverse economic conditions that contribute to loan delinquencies and defaults. An increase in loan delinquencies and defaults would result in greater net credit losses, which may require us to increase our reserves for customer receivables. In addition, the implementation of new financial services regulations, or the application of existing financial services regulation, in countries where we conduct our financial services and related supporting activities, could unfavorably affect the profitability and cash flows of our consumer financing activities. We are subject to counterparty default risks. We have numerous arrangements with financial institutions that include cash and investment deposits, interest rate swap contracts, foreign currency option contracts, and forward contracts. As a result, we are subject to the risk that the counterparty to one or more of these arrangements will default, either voluntarily or involuntarily, on its performance under the terms of the arrangement. In times of market distress, a counterparty may default rapidly and without notice, and we may be unable to take action to cover its exposure, either because of lack of contractual ability to do so or because market conditions make it difficult to take effective action. If one of our counterparties becomes insolvent or files for bankruptcy, our ability eventually to recover any losses suffered as a result of that counterpartys default may be limited by the impaired liquidity of the counterparty or the applicable legal regime governing the bankruptcy proceeding. In the event of such a default, we could incur significant losses, which could harm our business and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our performance and business could suffer if our contracts for ISG services and solutions fail to produce revenue at expected levels due to exercise of customer rights under the contracts, inaccurate estimation of costs, or customer defaults in payment. We offer our ISG customers a range of consumption models for our services and solutions, including as-a-Service, utility, leases, or immediate pay models, designed to match customers consumption preferences. These solutions generally are multiyear agreements that typically result in recurring revenue streams over the term of the arrangement. Our financial results and growth depend, in part, on customers continuing to purchase our services and solutions over the contract life on the agreed terms. The contracts allow customers to take actions that may adversely affect our recurring revenue and profitability. These actions include terminating a contract if our performance does not meet specified services levels, requesting rate reductions, reducing the use of our services and solutions or terminating a contract early upon payment of agreed fees. In addition, we estimate the costs of delivering the services and solutions at the outset of the contract. If we fail to estimate such costs accurately and actual costs significantly exceed estimates, we may incur losses on the contracts. We also are subject to the risk of loss under the contracts as a result of a default, voluntarily or involuntarily, in payment by the customer, whether because of financial weakness or other reasons. Loss of government contracts could harm our business. Contracts with U.S. federal, state, and local governments and with foreign governments are subject to future funding that may affect the extension or termination of programs and to the right of such governments to terminate contracts for convenience or non-appropriation. There is pressure on governments, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Funding reductions or delays could adversely affect public sector demand for our products and services. In addition, if we violate legal or regulatory requirements, the applicable government could suspend or disbar us as a contractor, which would unfavorably affect our net revenue and profitability. Our business could suffer if we do not develop and protect our proprietary intellectual property or obtain or protect licenses to intellectual property developed by others on commercially reasonable and competitive terms. If we or our suppliers are unable to develop or protect desirable technology or technology licenses, we may be prevented from marketing products, may have to market products without desirable features, or may incur substantial costs to redesign products. We also may have to defend or enforce legal actions or pay damages if we are found to have violated the intellectual property of other parties. Although our suppliers might be contractually obligated to obtain or protect such licenses and indemnify us against related expenses, those suppliers could be unable to meet their obligations. We invest in research and development and obtain additional intellectual property through acquisitions, but those activities do not guarantee that we will 24 Table of Contents develop or obtain intellectual property necessary for profitable operations. Costs involved in developing and protecting rights in intellectual property may have a negative impact on our business. In addition, our operating costs could increase because of copyright levies or similar fees by rights holders and collection agencies in European and other countries. Infrastructure disruptions could harm our business. We depend on our information technology and manufacturing infrastructure to achieve our business objectives. Natural disasters, manufacturing failures, telecommunications system failures, or defective or improperly installed new or upgraded business management systems could lead to disruptions in this infrastructure. Portions of our IT infrastructure, including those provided by third parties, also may experience interruptions, delays, or cessations of service, or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work. Such disruptions may adversely affect our ability to receive or process orders, manufacture and ship products in a timely manner, or otherwise conduct business in the normal course. Further, portions of our business involve the processing, storage, and transmission of data, which also would be negatively affected by such an event. Disruptions in our infrastructure could lead to loss of customers and revenue, particularly during a period of heavy demand for our products and services. We also could incur significant expense in repairing system damage and taking other remedial measures. Failure to hedge effectively our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We utilize derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Some of these instruments and contracts may involve elements of market and credit risk in excess of the amounts recognized in our financial statements. Global economic events, including trade disputes, economic sanctions and emerging market volatility, and associated uncertainty may cause currencies to fluctuate, which may contribute to variations in our sales of products and services in various jurisdictions. If we are not successful in monitoring our foreign exchange exposures and conducting an effective hedging program, our foreign currency hedging activities may not offset the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on our future results of operations and financial position. Adverse legislative or regulatory tax changes, the expiration of tax holidays or favorable tax rate structures, or unfavorable outcomes in tax audits and other tax compliance matters could result in an increase in our tax expense or our effective income tax rate. Changes in tax laws (including any future U.S. Treasury notices or regulations related to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was signed into law on December 22, 2017) could adversely affect our operations and profitability. In recent years, numerous legislative, judicial, and administrative changes have been made to tax laws applicable to us and similar companies. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the OECD), an international association of 38 countries, including the United States, has issued guidelines that change long-standing tax principles. The OECD guidelines may introduce tax uncertainty as countries amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the guidelines. Additional changes to tax laws are likely to occur, and such changes may adversely affect our tax liability. Portions of our operations are subject to a reduced tax rate or are free of tax under various tax holidays that expire in whole or in part from time to time. Many of these holidays may be extended when certain conditions are met, or may be terminated if certain conditions are not met. If the tax holidays are not extended, or if we fail to satisfy the conditions of the reduced tax rate, our effective tax rate would be affected. Our effective tax rate also could be impacted if our geographic sales mix changes. In addition, any actions by us to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes may affect the effective tax rate. We are continually under audit in various tax jurisdictions. We may not be successful in resolving potential tax claims that arise from these audits. An unfavorable outcome in certain of these matters could result in a substantial increase in our tax expense. In addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets. Our profitability could suffer from declines in fair value or impairment of our portfolio investments. We invest a significant portion of available funds in a portfolio consisting of both equity and debt securities of various types and maturities pending the deployment of these funds in our business. Our equity investments consist of strategic investments in both marketable and non-marketable securities. Investments in marketable securities are measured at fair value on a 25 Table of Contents recurring basis. We have elected to apply the measurement alternative for non-marketable securities. Under the alternative, we measure investments without readily determinable fair values at cost, less impairment, adjusted by observable price changes. Our debt securities generally are classified as held to maturity and are recorded in our financial statements at amortized cost. Our earnings performance could suffer from declines in fair value or impairment of our investments. Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could harm our business and result in substantial costs. We are involved in various claims, suits, investigations, and legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, including those pending in connection with the Class V transaction and others described elsewhere in this report. Additional legal claims or regulatory matters affecting us and our subsidiaries may arise in the future and could involve stockholder, consumer, regulatory, compliance, intellectual property, antitrust, tax, and other issues on a global basis. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. Regardless of the merits of a claim, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to our business. We could incur judgments or enter into settlements of claims that could adversely affect our operating results or cash flows in a particular period. Even if we are not named a party to a particular suit, we may be subject to indemnification obligations to the named parties that could subject us to liability for damages or other amounts payable as a result of such judgments or settlements. In addition, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected if any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions. Compliance requirements of current or future environmental and safety laws, or other laws, may increase costs, expose us to potential liability and otherwise harm our business. Our operations are subject to environmental and safety regulations in all areas in which we conduct business. Product design and procurement operations must comply with new and future requirements relating to climate change laws and regulations, materials composition, sourcing, energy efficiency and collection, recycling, treatment, transportation, and disposal of electronics products, including restrictions on mercury, lead, cadmium, lithium metal, lithium ion, and other substances. If we fail to comply with applicable rules and regulations regarding the transportation, source, use, and sale of such regulated substances, we could be subject to liability. The costs and timing of costs under environmental and safety laws are difficult to predict, but could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, we and our subsidiaries are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and are also subject to export controls, customs, economic sanctions laws, including those currently imposed on Russia, and embargoes imposed by the U.S. government. Violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other anti-corruption laws or export control, customs, or economic sanctions laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we and our subsidiaries may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act intended to improve transparency and accountability concerning the supply of minerals originating from the conflict zones of the Democratic Republic of the Congo or adjoining countries. We incur costs to comply with the disclosure requirements of this law and other costs relating to the sourcing and availability of minerals used in our products. Further, we may face reputational harm if our customers or other stakeholders conclude that we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products. Natural disasters, terrorism, armed hostilities, or public health issues could harm our business. Natural disasters, terrorism or armed hostilities, such as the attack on Ukraine, or public health issues, such as those resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, whether in the United States or in other countries, could cause damage or disruption to us or our suppliers and customers, or could create political or economic instability, any of which could harm our business. Any such events could cause a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to deliver products or for suppliers to deliver components, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. 26 Table of Contents Global climate change, and legal, regulatory, or market measures to address climate change, may negatively affect or business, operations, and financial results. We are subject to risks associated with the long-term effects of climate change on the global economy and on the IT industry in particular. The physical risks associated with climate change include the adverse effects of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of natural disasters. Extreme weather and natural disasters within or outside the United States could make it more difficult and costly for us to manufacture and deliver our products to our customers, obtain production materials from our suppliers, or perform other critical corporate functions. For example, tornadoes in Tennessee, wildfires in California, and typhoons in the Philippines disrupted our operations in those areas in recent periods. The increasing concern over climate change could also result in transition risks such as shifting customer preferences or regulatory changes. Changing customer preferences may result in increased demands regarding our solutions, products, and services, including the use of packaging materials and other components in our products and their environmental impact on sustainability. These demands may cause us to incur additional costs or make other changes to other operations to respond to such demands, which could adversely affect our financial results. If we fail to manage transition risks, including such demands, in an effective manner, customer demand for our solutions, products, and services could diminish, and our profitability could suffer. The increasing concern over climate change could result in new domestic or international legal requirements for us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other environmental impacts of our operations, improve our energy efficiency, or undertake sustainability measures that exceed those we currently pursue. Any such regulatory requirements could cause disruptions in the manufacture of our products and result in increased procurement, production, and distribution costs. Our reputation and brand could be harmed if we fail, or are seen as having failed, to respond responsibly and effectively to changes in legal and regulatory measures adopted to address climate change. We are highly dependent on the services of Michael S. Dell, our Chief Executive Officer, and our loss of, or our inability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate, executive talent and other employees in this highly competitive market could harm our business. We are highly dependent on the services of Michael S. Dell, our founder, Chief Executive Officer, and largest stockholder. If we lose the services of Mr. Dell, we may not be able to locate a suitable or qualified replacement, and we may incur additional expenses to recruit a replacement, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. Further, we rely on key personnel, including other members of our executive leadership team, to support our business and increasingly complex product and services offerings. Our experienced executives are supported by employees in our U.S. and international operations who are highly skilled in product development, manufacturing, sales and other functions critical to our future growth and profitability. We face intensive competition, both within and outside of our industry, in retaining and hiring individuals with the requisite expertise. The disruption in labor markets as a result of COVID-19 has increased the competition for talent. As a result of this competition, we may be unable to continue to attract, retain, and motivate suitably qualified individuals at acceptable compensation levels who have the managerial, operational, and technical knowledge and experience to meet our needs. Any failure by us to do so could adversely affect our competitive position and results of operations. We have outstanding indebtedness and may incur additional debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition. As of January 28, 2022, we and our subsidiaries had approximately $27.0 billion aggregate principal amount of indebtedness. As of the same date, we and our subsidiaries also had an additional $5.0 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facilities. Although continued debt paydown is part of our overall capital allocation strategy, a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations is used to make interest and other debt service payments, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes, and potential acquisitions. Our indebtedness could also reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions. We may be able to incur significant additional secured and unsecured indebtedness under the terms of our existing debt, which generally do not restrict our ability to incur additional unsecured debt and contain certain significant exceptions to the covenant restricting our ability to incur additional secured debt. 27 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by the transition from LIBOR as a reference rate to calculate interest rates under our variable-rate indebtedness As of January 28, 2022, approximately $0.9 billion of our debt was variable-rate indebtedness consisting of unhedged outstanding DFS borrowings. Our current outstanding variable-rate indebtedness uses the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. LIBOR is the subject of recent national and international regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. As a result of these reforms, the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited, the administrator of LIBOR, ceased publication for the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR settings on December 31, 2021 and is expected to begin phasing out the remaining USD LIBOR settings on July 1, 2023. Alternatives to LIBOR may perform differently than in the past. We are in the process of amending relevant agreements based on LIBOR, but we cannot predict what alternative index will be negotiated with our counterparties. As a result, our interest expense could increase and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. In addition, uncertainty as to the nature of a potential discontinuance, modification, alternative reference rates or other reforms may materially adversely affect the trading market for securities linked to such benchmarks. We, however, cannot predict the timing of these developments or their impact on our indebtedness or financial condition. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Class C Common Stock Our multi-class common stock structure with different voting rights may adversely affect the trading price of the Class C Common Stock. Each share of our Class A Common Stock and each share of our Class B Common Stock has ten votes, while each share of our Class C Common Stock has one vote. Because of these disparate voting rights, Michael Dell and the Susan Lieberman Dell Separate Property Trust (the MD stockholders) and certain investment funds affiliated with Silver Lake Partners (the SLP stockholders) collectively held common stock representing approximately 94.4% of the total voting power of our outstanding common stock as of January 28, 2022. The limited ability of holders of the Class C Common Stock to influence matters requiring stockholder approval may adversely affect the market price of the Class C Common Stock. In addition, in 2017, FTSE Russell and S&P Dow Jones changed their eligibility criteria to exclude new companies with multiple classes of shares of common stock from being added to certain stock indices. FTSE Russell instituted a requirement that new and, beginning in September 2022, existing constituents of its indices have greater than 5% of their voting rights in the hands of public stockholders, as calculated by FTSE Russell, whereas S&P Dow Jones announced that companies with multiple share classes, such as Dell Technologies, will not be eligible for inclusion in the S&P 500, S&P MidCap 400, and S&P SmallCap 600, which together make up the S&P Composite 1500. Other major stock indices might adopt similar requirements in the future. FTSE Russells determination may change at any time. Under the current criteria, at a minimum, our multi-class capital structure makes it ineligible for inclusion in specified S&P Dow Jones indices, including those making up the S&P Composite 1500, and, as a result, mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, and other investment vehicles that track these indices will not invest in the Class C Common Stock. It is unclear what effect, if any, exclusion from any indices will have on the valuations of the affected publicly-traded companies. It is possible that such policies may depress the valuations of public companies excluded from such indices compared to valuations of companies that are included. Future sales, or the perception of future sales, of a substantial amount of shares of the Class C Common Stock could depress the trading price of the Class C Common Stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of the Class C Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of the Class C Common Stock, which could make it more difficult for investors to sell their shares of Class C Common Stock at a time and price that they consider appropriate. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also could impair our ability to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price we deem appropriate, and our ability to use Class C Common Stock as consideration for acquisitions of other businesses, investments, or other corporate purposes. As of January 28, 2022, we had a total of approximately 283 million shares of Class C Common Stock outstanding. As of January 28, 2022, the 378,224,977 outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock held by the MD stockholders and the 95,350,227 outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock held by the SLP stockholders are convertible into shares of Class C Common Stock at any time on a one-to-one basis. Such shares, upon any conversion into shares of Class C Common Stock, will be eligible for resale in the public market pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act), subject to volume, manner of sale, and other limitations under Rule 144. 28 Table of Contents We have entered into a registration rights agreement with holders of 378,224,977 outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock (which are convertible into number of shares of Class C Common Stock), holders of all of the 95,350,227 outstanding shares of Class B Common Stock (which are convertible into the same number of shares of Class C Common Stock), and holders of approximately 6,000,000 outstanding shares of Class C Common Stock, pursuant to which we granted such holders and their permitted transferees shelf, demand and/or piggyback registration rights with respect to such shares. Registration of those shares under the Securities Act would permit such holders to sell the shares into the public market. Further, as of January 28, 2022, we had 62,152,041 shares of Class C Common Stock that may be issued upon the exercise, vesting, or settlement of outstanding stock options, restricted stock units, or deferred stock units under our stock incentive plan, all of which would have been, upon issuance, eligible for sale in the public market, subject where applicable to expiration or waiver of contractual transfer restrictions, and an additional 45,674,713 shares of Class C Common Stock that have been authorized and reserved for issuance pursuant to potential future awards under the stock incentive plan. We also may issue additional stock options in the future that may be exercised for additional shares of Class C Common Stock and additional restricted stock units or deferred stock units that may vest. We expect that all shares of Class C Common Stock issuable with respect to such awards will be registered under one or more registration statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act and available for sale in the open market. We are controlled by the MD stockholders, who, together with the SLP stockholders, collectively own a substantial majority of our common stock and are able to effectively control our actions, including approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. By reason of their ownership of Class A Common Stock possessing a majority of the aggregate votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares of our common stock voting together as a single class, the MD stockholders have the ability to approve any matter submitted to the vote of all of the outstanding shares of the common stock voting together as a single class. Through their control, the MD stockholders are able to control our actions, including actions related to the election of our directors and directors of our subsidiaries, amendments to our organizational documents, and the approval of significant corporate transactions, including mergers and sales of substantially all of our assets that our stockholders may deem advantageous. For example, although our bylaws provide that the number of directors will be fixed by resolution of the board of directors, our stockholders may adopt, amend, or repeal the bylaws in accordance with the Delaware General Corporation Law. Through their control, the MD stockholders therefore may amend our bylaws to change the number of directors (within the limits of the certificate of incorporation), notwithstanding any determination by the board of directors regarding board size. Further, as of January 28, 2022, the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders collectively beneficially owned 63.3% of our outstanding common stock. This concentration of ownership together with the disparate voting rights of our common stock may delay or deter possible changes in control of Dell Technologies, which may reduce the value of an investment in the Class C Common Stock. So long as the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders continue to own common stock representing a significant amount of the combined voting power of our outstanding common stock, even if such amount is, individually or in the aggregate, less than 50%, such stockholders will continue to be able to strongly influence our decisions. In addition, the MD stockholders and the SLP stockholders, respectively, have the right to nominate a number of individuals for election as Group I Directors (who constitute all but one of our directors), which is equal to the percentage of the total voting power for the regular election of directors beneficially owned by the MD stockholders or by the SLP stockholders multiplied by the number of directors then on the board of directors who are not members of the audit committee, rounded up to the nearest whole number. Further, so long as the MD stockholders or the SLP stockholders each beneficially own at least 5% of all outstanding shares of the common stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, each of the MD stockholders or the SLP stockholders, as applicable, are entitled to nominate at least one individual for election as a Group I Director. The MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders and their respective affiliates may have interests that conflict with the interests of other stockholders or those of Dell Technologies. In the ordinary course of their business activities, the MD stockholders, certain investment funds affiliated with an investment firm formed by principals of the firm that manages the capital of Michael Dell and his family (the MSD Partners stockholders), and the SLP stockholders and their respective affiliates may engage in activities in which their interests conflict with our interests or those of other stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation provides that none of the MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, the SLP stockholders, nor any of their respective affiliates or any director or officer of the Company who is also a director, officer, employee, managing director, or other affiliate (other than Michael Dell) have any duty 29 Table of Contents to refrain from engaging, directly or indirectly, in the same business activities or similar business activities or lines of business in which we operate. The MD stockholders, the MSD Partners stockholders, and the SLP stockholders also may pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. In addition, such stockholders may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance the value of their investment in Dell Technologies, even though such transactions might involve risks to other stockholders. Because we are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements, holders of Class C Common Stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to such requirements. We are a controlled company within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange (the NYSE) because the MD stockholders hold common stock representing more than 50% of the voting power in the election of directors. As a controlled company, we may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements under NYSE rules, including the requirements that we have a board composed of a majority of independent directors, as defined under NYSE rules, and that we have a compensation committee and a nominating/corporate governance committee each composed entirely of independent directors. Although we currently maintain a board composed of a majority of independent directors, we currently utilize the exemptions relating to committee composition and expect to continue to utilize those exemptions. As a result, none of the committees of the board of directors, other than the audit committee, consists entirely of independent directors. Further, we may decide in the future to change our board membership so that the board is not composed of a majority of independent directors. Accordingly, holders of Class C Common Stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the NYSEs corporate governance requirements. Our certificate of incorporation designates a state court of the State of Delaware or the federal district court for the District of Delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our stockholders, which could limit the ability of the holders of Class C Common Stock to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or with our directors, officers, or controlling stockholders. Under our certificate of incorporation, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum will be, to the fullest extent permitted by law, a state court located within the State of Delaware (or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) for: any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies to us or our stockholders; any action asserting a claim against Dell Technologies or any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law or of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws; or any action asserting a claim against us or any director or officer or stockholder of Dell Technologies governed by our internal affairs doctrine. These provisions of our certificate of incorporation could limit the ability of the holders of the Class C Common Stock to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or with our directors, officers, or controlling stockholders, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and stockholders. Alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our organizational documents inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, one or more of the specified types of actions or proceedings, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The choice of forum provision is intended to apply to the fullest extent permitted by law to the above-specified types of actions and proceedings, including, to the extent permitted by the federal securities laws, to lawsuits asserting both the above-specified claims and claims under the federal securities laws. Application of the choice of forum provision may be limited in some instances by applicable law. Section 27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) creates exclusive federal jurisdiction over all suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations 30 Table of Contents thereunder. As a result, the choice of forum provision will not apply to actions arising under the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder. Section 22 of the Securities Act creates concurrent jurisdiction for federal and state courts over suits brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Securities Act or the rules and regulations thereunder, subject to a limited exception for certain covered class actions. There is uncertainty, particularly in light of current litigation, as to whether a court would enforce the choice of forum provision with respect to claims under the Securities Act. Our stockholders will not be deemed, by operation of the choice of forum provision, to have waived claims arising under the federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. We may not continue to pay dividends or to pay dividends at the same rate as announced in February 2022. Our payment of dividends, as well as the rate at which we pay dividends, is solely at the discretion of our board of directors. Further, dividend payments, if any, are subject to our financial results and the availability of statutory surplus to pay dividends. These factors could result in a change to our current dividend policy. 31 Table of Contents ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2 PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices and global headquarters are located at One Dell Way, Round Rock, Texas. As of January 28, 2022, as shown in the following table, we owned or leased 22.6 million square feet of office, manufacturing, and warehouse space worldwide: Owned Leased (in millions) U.S. facilities 8.1 2.1 International facilities 4.4 8.0 Total (a) 12.5 10.1 ____________________ (a) Includes 2.2 million square feet of subleased or vacant space. As of January 28, 2022, our facilities consisted of business centers, which include facilities that contain operations for sales, technical support, administrative, and support functions; manufacturing operations; and research and development centers. For additional information about our facilities, including the location of certain facilities, see Item 1 Business Manufacturing and Materials. Because of the interrelation of the products and services offered in each of our segments, we generally do not designate our properties to any segment. With limited exceptions, each property is used at least in part by both of our segments, and we retain the flexibility to make future use of each of the properties available to each of the segments. We believe that our existing properties are suitable and adequate for our current needs, and we will continue to assess our facilities requirements in light of a number of factors, including the increased number of employees who are adopting flexible work arrangements under our Connected Workplace programs. The shift to such arrangements may result in an overall reduction in the square footage of our facilities. ITEM 3 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required by this Item 3 is incorporated herein by reference to the information set forth under the caption Legal Matters in Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II