ITEM 2 MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS All percentage amounts and ratios were calculated using the underlying data in thousands. Our fiscal year is the 52 or 53 week period ending on the Friday nearest January 31. Unless the context indicates otherwise, references in this managements discussion and analysis to we, us, our and Dell mean Dell Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries. This managements discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2011, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in that report. INTRODUCTION We are a leading integrated technology solutions provider in the IT industry. We built our reputation through listening to customers and developing solutions that meet customer needs. We are focused on providing long-term value creation through the delivery of customized solutions that make technology more efficient, more accessible, and easier to use. Customer needs are increasingly being defined by how they use technology rather than where they use it, which is why our businesses are globally organized. Our four global business segments are Large Enterprise, Public, Small and Medium Business (SMB), and Consumer. We also refer to our Large Enterprise, Public, and SMB segments as Commercial. Our globally organized business units reflect the impact of globalization on our customer base. We are committed to delivering efficient and flexible IT solutions for the virtual era. Our focus is on three key solutions domains: Next generation computing solutions and intelligent data management Services, security and cloud computing, and End user computing Next generation computing solutions, intelligent data management, services, security and cloud computing are all part of our enterprise solutions and services business, which has contributed to improvements in our operating margins in recent quarters. Our enterprise solutions products include servers, networking, and storage products and our services are grouped into three categories based on similar demand, economic and delivery profiles: transactional; outsourcing; and project-based. We are also focused on end user computing by developing higher valued capabilities for our client products, which include our mobility and desktop PC products. We have been focusing on improving the profitability of our client products by creating a flexible value chain to improve execution and we will continue to focus on simplifying our product offerings. The majority of our products are now produced by contract manufacturers. We believe developing flexible and efficient IT solutions will provide higher recurring revenue streams and margin opportunities over time. We supplement organic growth with a disciplined acquisition program targeting businesses that will expand our portfolio of enterprise solutions and services offerings. We emphasize acquisitions of companies with portfolios that we can leverage with our global customer base and distribution. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, we acquired Compellent Technologies, Inc. ("Compellent"), a global provider of virtual storage solutions for enterprise and cloud computing environments, and SecureWorks Inc. ("SecureWorks"), a global provider of information security services. See Note 8 - Acquisitions in Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for additional information about our acquisitions. In addition, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, we announced our intent to acquire Dell Financial Services Canada Limited, a CIT Vendor Finance and Dell partnership, as well as CIT Vendor Finance's Dell-related assets and sales and servicing functions in Europe. Presentation of Supplemental Non-GAAP Financial Measures In this management's discussion and analysis, we use supplemental measures of our performance, which are derived from our consolidated financial information but which are not presented in our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP). These financial measures, which are considered non-GAAP financial measures under SEC rules, include our non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share. See Results of Operations Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for information about our use of these non-GAAP financial measures, including our reasons for including the measures, material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures, and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 27 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Operations The following table summarizes our consolidated results of operations for the three months ended April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010: Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except per share amounts and percentages) Net revenue: Products $ 12,059 80.3 % % $ 12,086 81.3 % Services, including software related 2,958 19.7 % 6 % 2,788 18.7 % Total net revenue $ 15,017 100.0 % 1 % $ 14,874 100 % Gross margin: Products $ 2,623 21.8 % 54 % $ 1,701 14.1 % Services, including software related 809 27.3 % (1 )% 815 29.2 % Total gross margin $ 3,432 22.9 % 36 % $ 2,516 16.9 % Operating expenses $ 2,220 14.8 % 11 % $ 1,997 13.4 % Operating income $ 1,212 8.1 % 134 % $ 519 3.5 % Net income $ 945 6.3 % 177 % $ 341 2.3 % Earnings per share diluted $ 0.49 N/A 188 % $ 0.17 N/A Other Financial Information (a) Non-GAAP gross margin $ 3,511 23.4 % 34 % $ 2,614 17.6 % Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,135 14.2 % 19 % $ 1,790 12.0 % Non-GAAP operating income $ 1,376 9.2 % 67 % $ 824 5.5 % Non-GAAP net income $ 1,050 7.0 % 80 % $ 584 3.9 % Non-GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.55 N/A 83 % $ 0.30 N/A _____________________ (a) Non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income, and non-GAAP earnings per share are not measurements of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for information about these non-GAAP financial measures, including our reasons for including the measures, material limitations with respect to the usefulness of the measures, and a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. Overview For the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, our total net revenue increased 1% year-over-year with slight increases in our Large Enterprise and SMB segments largely offset by decreases in our Public and Consumer segments. The net revenue of our Commercial segments increased 3% year-over-year, and represented approximately 80% of our total net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The recovery in the economy during recent quarters helped maintain demand from our Large Enterprise and SMB customers as the corporate refresh cycle continued. Our Public customers continue to be challenged by budgetary constraints on public spending, particularly in the U.S. and European regions. Demand from our Consumer customers softened in the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, though profitability improved. Our consolidated operating income increased 134% year-over-year, and all our segments reported increases in operating income. Operating income from our Commercial segments increased 50%, while Consumer operating income increased from $17 million to $136 million. The improved profitability of our Commercial business was largely driven by significant margin improvements from our client products, which include mobility and desktop products. Our Commercial segments also saw improved margin percentages for our enterprise solutions products, which include our servers, networking, and storage offerings. Our Consumer segment experienced improved profitability primarily from our client products. We will remain focused on profitability by continuing our efforts to provide IT solutions to our customers in areas such as enterprise solutions and services, and will continue to utilize our flexible supply chain and pricing discipline in seeking to enhance the profitability 28 Table of Contents of all our products. Revenue Product Revenue Product revenue was flat year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Our product revenue performance was attributable to softening customer demand, particularly for our Public and Consumer segments. See "Revenue by Product and Services Categories" for further information regarding the average selling prices of our products. Services Revenue, including software related Services revenue, including software related increased year-over-year by 6% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Our services revenue performance was attributable to a 5% year-over-year increase in services revenue and an increase of 9% in software related services revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, revenue from the U.S. decreased 5% to $7.4 billion and represented 49% of total net revenue. Revenue from outside the U.S. increased 7% to $7.6 billion and represented 51% of total net revenue. Non-U.S. revenue excluding Western Europe, Canada and Japan grew 17% year-over-year to 27% of total net revenue. Revenue from Brazil, Russia, India, and China, which we refer to as "BRIC," increased 18% year-over-year, on a combined basis, for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The increase in revenue from BRIC was driven by sales in China and India, while revenue from Russia and Brazil has softened in comparison to prior quarters. Total revenue from BRIC increased to 14% of our total net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 over 12% for the prior year. We are continuing to expand into these and other emerging countries that represent the vast majority of the world's population, tailor solutions to meet specific regional needs, and enhance relationships to provide customer choice and flexibility. We manage our business on a U.S. dollar basis and utilize a comprehensive hedging strategy intended to mitigate the impact of foreign currency volatility over time. As a result of our hedging programs, the impact of currency movements was not material to our total net revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Japan On March 11, 2011, the northeast region of Japan sustained extensive damage from a severe earthquake and tsunami that has impacted Japan's infrastructure as well as its economy. We do not have any manufacturing facilities in Japan and our operations have not been significantly affected by the damage. Revenue from Japan represented less than 5% of our total net revenue for Fiscal 2011 and Fiscal 2010 and was not significantly impacted by the event for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Although certain components used in our products are produced by Japanese manufacturers, our preliminary assessment indicates that our supply chain to date has not been significantly impacted by this event. We will continue to monitor the situation. Gross Margin Products During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, our product gross margins increased in absolute dollars year-over-year and in gross margin percentage. Product gross margin percentage increased from 14.1% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 to 21.8% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Decreasing component costs, improved pricing discipline, better sales and supply chain execution, and a shift in mix to more differentiated products with higher margins contributed to the year-over-year increase in product gross margin percentage for all our segments. We have created a flexible supply chain that has improved our supply chain execution and we have simplified our product offerings. Additionally, in the second half of Fiscal 2011, we began to benefit from decreasing component costs, particularly for memory and displays. We expect that this favorable component cost environment will moderate in the second and third quarters of Fiscal 2012. Services, including software related During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, our services gross margin decreased in absolute dollars and in gross margin percentage from the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Services gross margin decreased from 29.2% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 to 27.3% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Our gross margin rate for services, including software related, is driven by our transactional services, which consist primarily of our extended warranty sales, offset by lower margin categories such as outsourcing and project-related services. The year-over-year decrease in services gross margin was driven by decreases in gross margin percentage from transaction and project-based services due to temporary cost pressures. Total gross margin for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 increased 36% to $3.4 billion on a GAAP basis and 34% to $3.5 billion on a non-GAAP basis from the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Gross margin on a GAAP basis for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011 includes the effects of amortization of intangible assets, severance and facility action costs, and acquisition-related charges. As set forth in the reconciliation under "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" below, these items are excluded from the calculation of non-GAAP gross margin for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011. Amortization of intangible assets included in gross margin increased 4% to $71 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Amortization of intangibles is 29 Table of Contents primarily related to the intangible assets related to our acquisition of Perot Systems Corporation ("Perot Systems") in Fiscal 2010. Severance and facility action costs included in gross margin decreased 82% to $5 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The decrease in severance and facility action costs was due to a decrease in cost reduction activities from Fiscal 2011. We believe that we have substantially completed our manufacturing transformation, and do not expect to incur significant additional costs related to these activities. However, we may incur severance costs in the future as they relate to other acquisitions. Vendor Rebate Programs Our gross margin is affected by our ability to achieve competitive pricing with our vendors and contract manufacturers, including through our negotiation of a variety of vendor rebate programs to achieve lower net costs for the various components we include in our products. Under these programs, vendors provide us with rebates or other discounts from the list prices for the components, which are generally elements of their pricing strategy. Vendor rebate programs are only one element of the costs we negotiate for our product components. We account for rebates and other discounts as a reduction in cost of net revenue. Our total net cost includes supplier list prices reduced by vendor rebates and other discounts. We manage our costs on a total net cost basis. The terms and conditions of our vendor rebate programs are largely based on product volumes and are generally not long-term in nature, but instead are typically negotiated at the beginning of each quarter. Because of the fluid nature of these ongoing negotiations, which reflect changes in the competitive environment, the timing and amount of rebates and other discounts we receive under the programs may vary from period to period. Since we manage our component costs on a total net cost basis, any fluctuations in the timing and amount of rebates and other discounts we receive from vendors may not necessarily result in material changes to our gross margin. We monitor our component costs and seek to address the effects of any changes to terms that might arise under our vendor rebate programs. Our gross margins for the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011 were not materially affected by any changes to the terms of our vendor rebate programs, as the amounts we received under these programs were generally stable relative to our total net cost. We are not aware of any significant programmatic changes to vendor pricing and rebate programs that will impact our results in the near term. These discounts and rebates are allocated to the segments based on a variety of factors, including strategic initiatives to drive certain programs. Operating Expenses The following table presents information regarding our operating expenses for the three months ended April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010: Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Operating expenses: Selling, general, and administrative $ 2,025 13.5 % 11 % $ 1,830 12.3 % Research, development, and engineering 195 1.3 % 17 % 167 1.1 % Total operating expenses $ 2,220 14.8 % 11 % $ 1,997 13.4 % Other Financial Information Non-GAAP operating expenses (a) $ 2,135 14.2 % 19 % $ 1,790 12.0 % _______________________ (a) For a reconciliation of non-GAAP operating expenses to operating expenses prepared in accordance with GAAP, see Non-GAAP Financial Measures below. Selling, General, and Administrative During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, selling, general, and administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased year-over-year. The increase in SG&A expenses was primarily attributable to increases in compensation-related expenses, advertising, and promotional expenses. Compensation-related expenses, excluding severance-related expenses, increased approximately $239 million due to an increase in headcount of approximately 10% and an increase in performance-based compensation expense, which is tied to revenue and operating income growth and to 30 Table of Contents cash flow targets. Our headcount increase was primarily due to our acquisitions and new hires relating to our strategic initiatives to increase the number of sales specialists for our enterprise solutions and services offerings. We also experienced a year-over-year increase of $37 million in advertising and promotional expenses. In addition, higher SG&A expenses reflected increases in acquisition-related expenses, which were offset in part by decreases in severance and facility action costs discussed below. Research, Development, and Engineering During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, research, development, and engineering (RD&E) expenses were 1.3% of revenue compared to 1.1% in the prior year. We manage our research, development, and engineering spending by targeting those innovations and products that we believe are most valuable to our customers and by relying upon the capabilities of our strategic relationships. We are increasing our focus on research and development and will continue to shift our investment in RD&E activities to support our initiatives to grow our enterprise solutions and services offerings. Total operating expenses for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 increased 11% to $2.2 billion on a GAAP basis and 19% to $2.1 billion on a non-GAAP basis from the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Operating expenses on a GAAP basis for the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011 includes severance and facility charges, amortization of intangible assets, and acquisition-related charges. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, operating expenses on a GAAP basis also includes $100 million we incurred for our settlement of the SEC investigation and a $40 million charge for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against Dell during Fiscal 2007. See "Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I - Item 1 - Financial Statements" for a discussion of our prior year settlement of the SEC investigation. As set forth in the reconciliation under Non-GAAP Financial Measures below, non-GAAP operating expenses for the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011 excludes the effects of these severance and facility action costs, amortization of intangible assets, and acquisition-related charges, and, for Fiscal 2011, the settlements referred to above. Amortization of intangibles and acquisition-related charges included in operating expenses increased 8% to $21 million and 163% to $50 million, respectively, compared to Fiscal 2011. The increases for amortization of intangibles and acquisition-related charges are primarily related to the business acquisitions completed in the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Consistent with the discussion on severance and facility action costs in the gross margin section above, severance and facility action costs included in operating expenses decreased year-over-year by 51% to $14 million for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Operating and Net Income Operating Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, operating income increased 134% to $1.2 billion on a GAAP basis and 67% to $1.4 billion on a non-GAAP basis from the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. The increases were primarily attributable to the improved gross margins discussed above. Net Income During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, net income increased 177% to $945 million on a GAAP basis and 80% to $1,050 million on a non-GAAP basis from Fiscal 2011. Net income was positively impacted by increases in operating income and a lower effective income tax rate. In addition, on a GAAP basis, Interest and Other, net decreased favorably by 38% for Fiscal 2012. See Income and Other Taxes and Interest and Other, net below for a discussion of our effective tax rates and interest and other, net. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use non-GAAP financial measures in this report as performance measures to supplement the financial information we present on a GAAP basis. We believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows our management and investors to better understand our consolidated financial performance from period to period and in relationship to the operating results of our segments, as our management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of our underlying operating performance. We also believe that excluding certain items from our GAAP results allows our management to better project our future consolidated financial performance because our forecasts are developed at a level of detail different from that used to prepare GAAP-based financial measures. Moreover, we believe the non-GAAP financial measures provide investors with useful information to help them evaluate our operating results by facilitating an enhanced understanding of our underlying operating performance and enabling them to make more meaningful period to period comparisons. The non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report include non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP operating expenses, non-GAAP operating income, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures, as defined by us, represent the comparable GAAP financial measures adjusted to exclude primarily the following items: acquisition-related charges; amortization of purchased intangible assets related to acquisitions; severance and facility action costs; and amounts for the settlement of the SEC investigation, as well as the settlement of a securities litigation matter, which were incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. We provide below more detail regarding each of these items and our reasons for excluding the items. In future periods, we expect that we may again exclude such items and may incur income 31 Table of Contents and expenses similar to these excluded items. Accordingly, the exclusion of these items and other similar items in our non-GAAP presentation should not be interpreted as implying that the items are non-recurring, infrequent, or unusual. There are limitations to the use of the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this report. Our non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Other companies, including companies in our industry, may calculate the non-GAAP financial measures differently than we do, limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes. In addition, items such as amortization of purchased intangible assets represent the loss in value of intangible assets over time. The expense associated with this loss in value is not included in the non-GAAP financial measures and such measures, therefore, do not reflect the full economic effect of such loss. Further, items such as severance and facility action costs and acquisition expenses that are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures can have a material impact on earnings. Our management compensates for the foregoing limitations by relying on our GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures supplementally or for projections when comparable GAAP financial measures are not available. The non-GAAP financial measures are not meant to be considered as indicators of performance in isolation from or as substitutes for gross margin, operating expenses, operating income, net income, and earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP, and should be read only in conjunction with financial information presented on a GAAP basis. We provide below reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, and encourage you to review the reconciliations in conjunction with the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures for each respective period. The following is a summary of the costs and other items excluded from the most comparable GAAP financial measures to calculate the non-GAAP financial measures presented in this management's discussion and analysis: Acquisition-related Costs Acquisition-related charges are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of retention payments, integration costs, and other costs. Retention payments include stock-based compensation and cash incentives awarded to employees, which are recognized over the vesting period. Integration costs include incremental business costs that are primarily attributable to the acquisition of Perot Systems during the fourth quarter of Fiscal 2010 and are being incurred during the integration period. These costs primarily include IT costs related to the integration of IT systems and processes, costs related to the integration of Perot Systems employees, costs related to full-time employees who are working on the integration, and consulting expenses. Acquisition-related charges are inconsistent in amount and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of acquisitions. Therefore, although we may incur these types of expenses in connection with future acquisitions, we believe eliminating acquisition-related charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to our past operating performance. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of purchased intangible assets consists primarily of amortization of customer relationships, customer lists, acquired technology, trade names, and non-compete covenants purchased in connection with business acquisitions. We incur charges relating to the amortization of these intangibles, and those charges are included in our consolidated financial statements. Amortization charges for our purchased intangible assets are inconsistent in amount from period to period and are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisitions. Consequently, we exclude these charges for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to Dell's past operating performance. Severance and Facility Actions Severance and facility action costs primarily relate to facilities charges, including accelerated depreciation and severance and benefits for employees terminated pursuant to actions taken as part of a comprehensive review of costs, including certain employee cost synergies realized through our strategic acquisitions. While we expect to continue to incur severance and facility costs with any new cost reduction activities, we exclude these severance and facility action costs for purposes of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because we believe that these historical costs do not reflect expected future operating expenses and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance or comparisons to our past operating performance. Other Fees and Settlements We also adjust our GAAP results for certain fees and settlements. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, we recorded a $100 million settlement amount for the SEC investigation into certain of Dell's accounting and financial matters, which was initiated in 2005, and incurred $40 million for a securities litigation class action lawsuit that was filed against us during Fiscal 2007. We are excluding these settlements from the operating results for the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 for the purpose of calculating the non-GAAP financial measures because we believe these fees and settlements, while not unusual, are outside our ordinary course of business and do not contribute to a meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance. 32 Table of Contents Aggregate Adjustment for Income Taxes The aggregate adjustment for income taxes is the estimated combined income tax effect for the adjustments mentioned above. The tax effects are determined based on the jurisdictions where the adjustments were incurred. The table below presents a reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measure for the three months ended April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010: Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 % Change April 30, 2010 (in millions, except percentages) GAAP gross margin $ 3,432 36 % $ 2,516 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 71 68 Severance and facility actions 5 29 Acquisition-related 3 1 Non-GAAP gross margin $ 3,511 34 % $ 2,614 GAAP operating expenses $ 2,220 11 % $ 1,997 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles (21 ) (20 ) Severance and facility actions (14 ) (28 ) Acquisition-related (50 ) (19 ) Other fees and settlements (140 ) Non-GAAP operating expenses $ 2,135 19 % $ 1,790 GAAP operating income $ 1,212 134 % $ 519 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 92 88 Severance and facility actions 19 57 Acquisition-related 53 20 Other fees and settlements 140 Non-GAAP operating income $ 1,376 67 % $ 824 GAAP net income $ 945 177 % $ 341 Non-GAAP adjustments: Amortization of intangibles 92 88 Severance and facility actions 19 57 Acquisition-related 53 20 Other fees and settlements 140 Aggregate adjustment for income taxes (59 ) (62 ) Non-GAAP net income $ 1,050 80 % $ 584 GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.49 188 % $ 0.17 Non-GAAP adjustments per share - diluted 0.06 0.13 Non-GAAP earnings per share - diluted $ 0.55 83 % $ 0.30 33 Table of Contents Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 Percentage of Total Net Revenue GAAP gross margin 22.9 % 16.9 % Non-GAAP adjustments 0.5 % 0.7 % Non-GAAP gross margin 23.4 % 17.6 % GAAP operating expenses 14.8 % 13.4 % Non-GAAP adjustments (0.6 )% (1.4 )% Non-GAAP operating expenses 14.2 % 12.0 % GAAP operating income 8.1 % 3.5 % Non-GAAP adjustments 1.1 % 2.0 % Non-GAAP operating income 9.2 % 5.5 % GAAP net income 6.3 % 2.3 % Non-GAAP adjustments 0.7 % 1.6 % Non-GAAP net income 7.0 % 3.9 % 34 Table of Contents Segment Discussion Our four global business segments are Large Enterprise, Public, Small and Medium Business, and Consumer. Severance and facility action expenses, broad based long-term incentive expenses, amortization of purchased intangible assets costs, acquisition-related expenses, and charges related to our settlement of the SEC investigation as well as a securities litigation class action lawsuit that were incurred during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011, are not allocated to the reporting segments as management does not believe that these items are reflective of the underlying operating performance of the reporting segments. These costs totaled $261 million and $392 million for the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, respectively. Se e Note 15 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional inf ormation and reconciliation of segment revenue and operating income to consolidated revenue and operating income. The following table presents our net revenue and operating income by our reportable global segments: Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 Dollars % of Revenue (a) % Change Dollars % of Revenue (a) (in millions, except percentages) Large Enterprise Net revenue $ 4,477 30 % 5 % $ 4,246 28 % Operating income $ 504 11 % 78 % $ 283 7 % Public Net revenue $ 3,767 25 % (2 )% $ 3,856 26 % Operating income $ 370 10 % 24 % $ 298 8 % Small and Medium Business Net revenue $ 3,768 25 % 7 % $ 3,524 24 % Operating income $ 463 12 % 48 % $ 313 9 % Consumer Net revenue $ 3,005 20 % (7 )% $ 3,248 22 % Operating income $ 136 5 % 685 % $ 17 1 % _______________________ (a) Operating income percentage of revenue is stated in relation to the respective segment. Large Enterprise Revenue for Large Enterprise increased year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 across all product lines , except for storage and desktop revenue, which declined 30% and 1%, respectively. The decrease in storage revenue was primarily due to a decrease in the sale of third-party storage products as we shift towards more Dell-branded storage solutions. Revenue from servers and networking and services increased 6% and 7%, respectively. Mobility revenue increased 16% and software and peripherals increased 11% year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, Large Enterprise's revenue increased overall across non-US regions, while revenue from the U.S. decreased slightly. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, operating income as a percentage of net revenue increased 460 basis points year-over-year to 11.3%. The increase was primarily attributable to improvements in gross margin for our products. The increase in gross margins was partially offset by an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue, primarily due to increased selling and marketing costs. Public During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, Public experienced an overall decrease in revenue that was primarily driven by year-over-year decreases in revenue from mobility and desktop products of 6% and 13%, respectively. Revenue from servers and networking increased 9% year-over-year, while storage revenue decreased 6%. Revenue from services, and software and peripherals increased 2% and 6% year-over-year, respectively. The decline in Public's revenue was primarily driven by decreases in the U.S. and the Europe, Middle East, and African regions, which we refer to as "EMEA," 35 Table of Contents due to continuing budgetary constraints on public spending. Public's operating income percentage increased 210 basis points to 9.8% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 due to improved gross margin percentages for our products, which were partially offset by increases in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue, primarily due to increases in selling and marketing costs. Small and Medium Business During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, SMB experienced a year-over-year increase in revenue with increases across all product and services categories, although revenue increases for mobility and desktop products were slight. Servers and networking, and storage revenue increased 19% and 7% year-over-year, respectively. Revenue from mobility and desktop PCs increased 1% and 2% year-over-year, respectively, while software and peripherals revenue increased 11% year-over-year. The improved demand environment was a major contributor to the increase in revenue for all product categories. Services revenue increased 16% year-over-year. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, SMB revenue experienced year-over-year growth across the Americas and Asia Pacific Japan, or "APJ", while SMB revenue from EMEA remained flat. Operating income percentage increased 340 basis points to 12.3%. The increase in operating income percentage was attributable to improved gross margins for our products, which were partially offset by an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of revenue due to higher selling and marketing costs. Consumer Consumer's revenue decreased 7% year-over-year during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Revenue from all product and services categories decreased year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, except mobility products, which had a slight increase of 2% year-over-year. Revenue from desktop PCs decreased by 26% due to a decline in desktop PC units of 20%. Average selling prices for Consumer mobility and desktop PCs decreased 6% and 7% year-over-year, respectively, during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Consumer services decreased 6% year-over-year and software and peripherals revenue decreased 27% for the same period. We continue to see a shift in sales mix from direct to retail sales, which typically have lower attach rates for services and software and peripherals. At a country level, our U.S. Consumer revenue decreased 21% year-over-year due to softer demand, while our non-U.S. regions in aggregate experienced 6% revenue growth. Revenue from BRIC grew 26% year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, Consumer's operating income percentage increased 400 basis points year-over-year to 4.5%. The increase in operating income percentage was largely attributable to an increase in gross margin percentage. Consumer gross margin increased due to a shift in product mix to higher value client products, which generate more favorable gross margins, as well as year-over-year increases in profitability from our customer financing arrangements. Operating expenses as a percentage of revenue increased slightly year-over-year due to increased selling and marketing costs. For the second quarter of Fiscal 2012, we expect to see stronger spending from our Public customers and above average seasonal increases in revenue from our SMB and Consumer customers. Our gross margins will continue to be impacted by changes in commodity prices. We expect the current favorable commodity price environment to moderate over the next two quarters. We expect to balance the effects of changes in the commodity cost environment with pricing discipline, and continue to execute our move to more differentiated and higher value products. 36 Table of Contents Revenue by Product and Services Categories We design, develop, manufacture, market, sell, and support a wide range of products that in many cases are customized to individual customer requirements. Our products are organized between enterprise and client categories. Our enterprise products include servers and networking, and storage products. Client products include mobility and desktop PC products. Our services include a broad range of configurable IT and business services, including infrastructure technology, consulting and applications, and product-related support services. We also offer software and peripheral products. The following table summarizes our net revenue by product and services categories for the three months ended April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010: Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 Dollars % of Revenue % Change Dollars % of Revenue (in millions, except percentages) Net revenue: Enterprise solutions and services: Enterprise solutions: Servers and networking $ 1,973 13 % 11 % $ 1,785 12 % Storage 481 3 % (13 )% 554 4 % Services 1,984 13 % 5 % 1,891 13 % Software and peripherals 2,567 17 % 3 % 2,496 17 % Client: Mobility 4,716 32 % 3 % 4,563 30 % Desktop PCs 3,296 22 % (8 )% 3,585 24 % Total net revenue $ 15,017 100 % 1 % $ 14,874 100 % Enterprise Solutions and Services Enterprise Solutions: Servers and Networking The increase in our servers and networking revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, over the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 was due to a shift towards more differentiated products that command higher selling prices. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, average selling prices increased 16%, while units sold decreased 5%. Storage Storage revenue decreased 13% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The decrease in Storage revenue was primarily due to an anticipated decline in the sale of third-party storage products as we shift towards selling more Dell-branded storage products such as our EqualLogic, PowerVault, and recently added Compellent products. Revenue from Dell-branded storage products increased 11% year-over-year. We believe that we will generate higher margins as we shift towards more Dell-branded storage offerings, which generally can be sold with service solutions. Our acquisition of Compellent during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 will expand our enterprise and cloud storage offerings. Services Services revenue increased 5% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, which was mostly driven by an increase in transactional revenue. Our estimated services backlog as of April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010, was $14.1 billion and $13.9 billion, respectively. We provide information regarding services backlog because we believe it provides useful trend information regarding changes in the size of our services business over time. Services backlog, as defined by us, includes deferred services revenue and contracted services backlog. Deferred services revenue, which consists primarily of our extended warranties, was $6.9 billion and $6.1 billion as of April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010, respectively. Estimated contracted services backlog, which is primarily related to our outsourcing services business, was $7.2 billion and $7.7 billion, as of April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010, respectively. See " Part II Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations Revenue by Product and Services Categories Services in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2011 for more information on our services 37 Table of Contents backlog calculation. Software and Peripherals Revenue from sales of software and peripherals (S&P) is derived from sales of Dell-branded printers, monitors (not sold with systems), projectors, keyboards, mice, docking stations, and a multitude of third-party peripherals, including televisions, cameras, stand-alone software sales and related support services, and other products. The 3% year-over-year increase in S&P revenue for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was driven by increases in revenue from the sale of electronics and peripherals and software, which was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from imaging products. Revenue from displays were flat year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Software revenue from our S&P line of business, which includes stand-alone sales of software license fees and related post-contract customer support, is reported in services revenue, including software related on our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income. Software and related support services revenue represented 33% and 32% of services revenue, including software related for the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, respectively. Client Mobility Revenue from mobility products (which include notebook computers, mobile workstations, and smartphones) increased 3% during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, which was primarily driven by our Large Enterprise segment and partially offset by a decrease in our Public segment. Revenue from our SMB and Consumer customers was relatively flat year-over-year for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. Mobility units increased 6%, while average selling prices decreased slightly by 2% for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. The increase in mobility revenue is primarily driven by our Latitude and XPS notebooks. Desktop PCs During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, revenue from desktop PCs (which include desktop computer systems and fixed workstations) decreased as units sold for desktop PCs decreased by 7%. The average selling price for our desktop computers decreased slightly by 2% year-over-year. Revenue from our Large Enterprise and SMB customers were relatively flat year-over-year, while our Public and Consumer businesses experienced 13% and 26% decreases, respectively. We are continuing to see rising end-user demand for mobility products, which moderates the demand for desktop PCs. Interest and Other, net The following table provides a detailed presentation of interest and other, net for the three months ended April 29, 2011 , and April 30, 2010 : Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 (in millions) Interest and other, net: Investment income, primarily interest $ 17 $ 8 Gains (losses) on investments, net 1 Interest expense (62 ) (47 ) Foreign exchange (30 ) Other 2 1 Interest and other, net $ (42 ) $ (68 ) We continued to maintain a portfolio of instruments with short maturities, which typically carry lower market yields. For the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, our investment income increased over the prior year, primarily due to higher average cash balances with higher average yields. The year-over-year increase in interest expense for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was due to higher debt levels, which increased to $7.6 billion as of April 29, 2011, from $4.7 billion as of April 30, 2010. The year-over-year decrease in foreign exchange expense for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was primarily due to revaluation gains from unhedged currencies and a decrease in the cost of the hedging program. 38 Table of Contents Income and Other Taxes Our effective tax rate was 19.2% and 24.4% for the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, respectively. The decrease in our effective income tax rate for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 from the first quarter of Fiscal 2011 was primarily due to an increase in the proportion of taxable income attributable to lower tax jurisdictions during Fiscal 2012. The differences between our effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% principally resulted from our geographical distribution of taxable income and permanent differences between the book and tax treatment of certain items. Our foreign earnings are generally taxed at lower rates than in the U.S. We continue to assess our business model and its impact in various tax jurisdictions. We take certain non-income tax positions in the jurisdictions in which we operate and have received certain non-income tax assessments from some of these jurisdictions. These jurisdictions include Brazil, where we are in litigation with a state government over the proper application of transactional taxes to warranties related to the sale of computers. See Note 13 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I - Item 1 - Financial Statements for additional information on these income tax related matters. LEGAL MATTERS Several of our vendors have been involved in legal actions initiated by their customers, including us, that relate to these vendors' past pricing practices. In the past, we have received settlements relating to these legal actions and we may receive additional settlements in the future relating to such currently unresolved actions. See Note 11 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I - Item 1 - Financial Statements for additional information on other litigation related matters. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE We sell products and services directly to customers and through a variety of sales channels, including retail distribution. At April 29, 2011 , our accounts receivable, net was $6.2 billion, a 5% decrease from our balance at January 28, 2011 . This decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to a slight decrease in revenue quarter-over-quarter. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to cover receivables that may be deemed uncollectible. The allowance for losses is based on specific identifiable customer accounts that are deemed at risk and a general provision based on historical bad debt experience. As of April 29, 2011 and January 28, 2011 , the allowance for doubtful accounts was $95 million and $96 million, respectively. Based on our assessment, we believe we are adequately reserved for expected credit losses. We monitor the aging of our accounts receivable and continue to take actions to reduce our exposure to credit losses. DELL FINANCIAL SERVICES AND FINANCING RECEIVABLES DFS offers a wide range of financial services in the U.S., including originating, collecting, and servicing customer receivables related to the purchase of Dell products. To support the financing needs of our customers internationally, we have aligned with a select number of third-party financial services companies. In April 2011, we announced our intent to acquire Dell Financial Services Canada Limited. from CIT Group Inc., as well as CIT Vendor Finance's Dell-related assets and sales and servicing functions in Europe. The acquisition of these assets will enable global expansion of Dell's direct finance model. Subject to customary closing conditions, we expect to close the acquisition in Canada in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012 and the acquisition in Europe in Fiscal 2013. CIT Vendor Finance is currently a Dell financing partner operating on behalf of Dell Financial Services in more than 25 countries and will continue to support Dell for the transition periods in Canada and Europe. CIT Vendor Finance will also continue to provide financing programs with Dell in select countries around the world beyond these transactions, including programs in Latin America. The results of DFS are included in the business segment where the customer receivable was originated. Due to improving economic conditions and portfolio performance, DFS's contribution to operating profitability has increased for all of our business segments. At April 29, 2011 and January 28, 2011 , our net financing receivables balances were $4.3 billion and $4.4 billion, respectively. We expect some growth in financing receivables to continue throughout Fiscal 2012. To manage the expected growth in financing receivables, we will continue to balance the use of our own working capital and other sources of liquidity, including securitization programs. We have securitization programs to fund revolving loans and fixed-term leases and loans through consolidated special purpose entities ("SPEs"), which we account for as secured borrowings. We transfer certain customer financing receivables to these SPEs whose purpose is to facilitate the funding of customer receivables through financing arrangements with multi-seller 39 Table of Contents conduits that issue asset-backed debt securities in the capital markets. During the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, we transferred $499 million and $496 million, respectively, to these SPEs. Our risk of loss related to these securitized receivables is limited to the amount of our over-collateralization in the transferred pool of receivables. We recently replaced one of the fixed-term lease and loan programs in May 2011, which resulted in better pricing for this program. At April 29, 2011 and January 28, 2011, the structured financing debt related to all of our secured borrowing securitization programs was $1.2 billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, and the carrying amount of the corresponding financing receivables was $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively. We maintain an allowance to cover expected financing receivable credit losses and evaluate credit loss expectations based on our total portfolio. For the three months ended April 29, 2011 and January 28, 2011, the net principal charge-off rate for our total portfolio was 5.3%, and 6.5%, respectively. The allowance for losses is determined based on various factors, including historical and anticipated experience, past due receivables, receivable type, and customer risk profile. At April 29, 2011 and January 28, 2011, the allowance for financing receivable losses was $217 million and $241 million, respectively. In general, we are seeing improving loss rates associated with our financing receivables as the economy has stabilized. We have an extensive process to manage our exposure to customer risk, including active management of credit lines and our collection activities. The credit quality mix of our financing receivables has improved in recent years due to our underwriting actions and as the mix of high quality commercial accounts in our portfolio has increased. Based on our assessment of the customer financing receivables, we believe that we are adequately reserved. See Note 5 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for additional information about our financing receivables and the associated allowance. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We do not have any off-balance sheet financing arrangements. LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL COMMITMENTS, AND CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS Current Market Conditions We regularly monitor economic conditions and associated impacts on the financial markets and our business. Though there has been improvement in the global economic environment in recent quarters, we continue to be cautious given the volatility associated with currency markets, international sovereign economies, and other economic indicators. We continue to evaluate the financial health of our supplier base, carefully manage customer credit, diversify counterparty risk, and monitor the concentration risk of our cash and cash equivalents balances globally. We monitor credit risk associated with our financial counterparties using various market credit risk indicators such as credit ratings issued by nationally recognized rating agencies and changes in market credit default swap levels. We perform periodic evaluations of our positions with these counterparties and may limit exposure to any one counterparty in accordance with our policies. We monitor and manage these activities depending on current and expected market developments. See Part I Item 1A Risk Factors in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 28, 2011 , for further discussion of risks associated with our use of counterparties. The impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements of any credit adjustments related to these counterparties has been immaterial. Liquidity Cash generated from operations is our primary source of operating liquidity and we believe that internally generated cash flows are sufficient to support day-to-day business operations. Our working capital management team actively monitors the efficiency of our balance sheet under various macroeconomic and competitive scenarios. These scenarios quantify risks to the financial statements and provide a basis for actions necessary to ensure adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally, to support our acquisition and investment strategy, share repurchase activity and other corporate needs. We utilize external capital sources, such as long-term notes and structured financing arrangements, and short-term borrowings, consisting primarily of commercial paper, to supplement our internally generated sources of liquidity as necessary. We have a currently effective shelf registration statement filed with the SEC for the issuance of debt securities. The current shelf registration will terminate during the second quarter of Fiscal 2012 and we intend to replace the shelf registration prior to its termination to allow us to continue to issue debt securities. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, we issued $1.5 billion principal amount of notes with terms that are consistent with our recent note issuances. We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, the overall cost of capital, cash requirements for operations, and discretionary spending, including for acquisitions and share repurchases. Due to the overall strength of our financial position, we believe that we will have adequate access to capital 40 Table of Contents markets. Any future disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in those markets may result in higher funding costs for us and could adversely affect our ability to obtain funds. At April 29, 2011, we had $15.2 billion in total cash, cash equivalents, and investments. Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, most of which are outside of the U.S. While our U.S. cash balances do fluctuate, we typically operate with 10% - 20% of our cash balances held domestically. Demands on our domestic cash have increased as a result of our strategic initiatives. We fund these initiatives through a balance of internally generated cash, external sources of capital, which include our $2.0 billion commercial paper program, and, when advantageous, access to foreign cash in a tax efficient manner. Where local regulations limit an efficient intercompany transfer of amounts held outside of the U.S., we will continue to utilize these funds for local liquidity needs. Under current law, balances available to be repatriated to the U.S. would be subject to U.S. federal income taxes, less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. federal tax liability on these amounts for financial statement purposes, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside of the U.S. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies with the objective of having our worldwide cash available in the locations where it is needed. Our non-U.S. domiciled cash and investments are generally denominated in the U.S. Dollar. The following table contains a summary of our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the respective periods: Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 (in millions) Net change in cash from: Operating activities $ 465 $ 238 Investing activities (1,549 ) (360 ) Financing activities 1,170 (254 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 62 (4 ) Change in cash and cash equivalents $ 148 $ (380 ) Operating Activities Operating cash flows for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 increased compared to the prior year. The increase in operating cash flows was driven by year-over-year increases in net income and deferred services revenue, which were partially offset by a net unfavorable change in working capital. See Key Performance Metrics below for discussion of our cash conversion cycle. Investing Activities Investing activities consist of the net of maturities and sales and purchases of investments; net capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment; principal cash flows related to purchased financing receivables; and net cash used to fund strategic acquisitions. Cash used in investing activities during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was $1.5 billion compared to cash used of $360 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. The year-over-year increase in cash used in investing activities for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was mainly due to higher acquisition spending. Cash used to fund strategic acquisitions, net of cash acquired, was approximately $1.5 billion during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 compared to approximately $133 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. Our Fiscal 2012 acquisitions consisted of SecureWorks and Compellent , while our first quarter Fiscal 2011 acquisitions consisted primarily of Kace Networks, Inc. Financing Activities Financing activities primarily consist of proceeds and repayments from borrowings and the repurchase of our common stock. The year-over-year increase in cash provided by financing activities for the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 was mainly due to the net proceeds from issuance of long-term debt of $1.5 billion. We did not issue any debt during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. During the first quarter of Fiscal 2012, net cash provided by proceeds from structured financing programs was $116 million compared to $35 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. We had net repayments of $86 million from commercial paper during the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. We did not issue or repay any commercial paper during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012. We had $6.3 billion principal amount of long-term notes and senior debentures outstanding as of April 29, 2011, compared to $3.3 billion as of April 30, 2010. Offsetting the net proceeds from debt was cash used for the repurchase of 31 million shares of common stock for $450 million during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 compared to $200 million used for the repurchase of 12 million shares in the first quarter of Fiscal 2011. We have $3 billion of senior unsecured revolving credit facilities primarily to support our $2 billion commercial paper program. We entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility during the first quarter of Fiscal 2012 for an increased amount of $2 billion, which will expire on April 15, 2015. We terminated the $1 billion credit facility that was set to expire in the second quarter of Fiscal 2012. The remaining $1 billion credit facility will expire on April 2, 2013. As of April 41 Table of Contents 29, 2011, we did not have any amounts outstanding under the commercial paper program compared to $410 million as of April 30, 2010. We issued structured financing-related debt to fund our financing receivables as previously discussed in the Financing Receivables section above. The total debt capacity of our securitization programs is $1.4 billion, and we had $1.2 billion in outstanding structured financing securitization debt as of April 29, 2011. See Note 6 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for further discussion of our debt. Key Performance Metrics Our cash conversion cycle for the fiscal quarter ended April 29, 2011 contracted from the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2010. Our business model allows us to maintain an efficient cash conversion cycle, which compares favorably with that of others in our industry. The following table presents the components of our cash conversion cycle for the three months ended April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010: Three Months Ended April 29, 2011 April 30, 2010 Days of sales outstanding (a) 40 38 Days of supply in inventory (b) 10 9 Days in accounts payable (c) (81 ) (83 ) Cash conversion cycle (31 ) (36 ) _____________________ (a) Days of sales outstanding (DSO) calculates the average collection period of our receivables. DSO is based on the ending net trade receivables and the most recent quarterly revenue for each period. DSO also includes the effect of product costs related to customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue that are classified in other current assets. DSO is calculated by adding accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, and customer shipments in transit and dividing that sum by average net revenue per day for the current quarter (90 days). At April 29, 2011 , and April 30, 2010 , DSO and days of customer shipments not yet recognized were 37 and 3 days, and 35 and 3 days, respectively. (b) Days of supply in inventory (DSI) measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products. DSI is based on ending inventory and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DSI is calculated by dividing inventory by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). (c) Days in accounts payable (DPO) calculates the average number of days our payables remain outstanding before payment. DPO is based on ending accounts payable and most recent quarterly cost of sales for each period. DPO is calculated by dividing accounts payable by average cost of goods sold per day for the current quarter (90 days). The five day contraction from the prior year was driven by a two day increase in DSO, a one day increase in DSI and a two day decrease in DPO year-over-year. The increase in DSO from April 30, 2010, was due to growth in our commercial business, which typically has longer payment terms. The slight increase in DSI from April 30, 2010, was primarily attributable to an increase in strategic purchases of materials and finished goods inventory. The two day decrease in DPO was due to the timing of supplier purchases and payments. We defer the cost of revenue associated with customer shipments not yet recognized as revenue until these shipments are delivered. These deferred costs are included in our reported DSO because we believe this reporting results in a more accurate presentation of our DSO and cash conversion cycle. These deferred costs are recorded in other current assets in our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and totaled $497 million and $465 million, at April 29, 2011, and April 30, 2010, respectively. We believe that we can generate cash flow from operations in excess of net income over the long term and can operate our cash conversion cycle in the mid-negative 30 day range. Capital Commitments Share Repurchase Program We have a share repurchase program that authorizes us to purchase shares of our common stock through a systematic program of open market purchases in order to increase shareholder value and manage dilution resulting from shares issued under our equity compensation plans. However, we do not currently have a policy that requires the repurchase of common stock to offset share-based compensation arrangements. For more information regarding share repurchases, see Part II Item 2 Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds. Capital Expenditures During the first quarters of Fiscal 2012 and Fiscal 2011, we spent $137 million and $46 million, respectively, on property, plant, and equipment primarily in connection with our global expansion efforts and infrastructure 42 Table of Contents investments made to support future growth. Product demand, product mix, and the increased use of contract manufacturers, as well as ongoing investments in operating and information technology infrastructure, influence the level and prioritization of our capital expenditures. Aggregate capital expenditures for Fiscal 2012, which will be primarily related to infrastructure investments and strategic initiatives, are currently expected to total approximately $700 million to $750 million. These expenditures will be primarily funded from our cash flows from operating activities. RECENTLY ISSUED AND ADOPTED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1 of Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I Item 1 Financial Statements for a description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows.