Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Overview Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Introduction Diebold, Incorporated and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company) is a global leader in providing financial self-service (FSS) delivery, integrated services and software, and security systems to the financial, commercial, retail and other markets. Founded in 1859, the Company has approximately 16,000 employees with business in more than 90 countries worldwide. The Company continues to execute its multi-year turnaround strategy, Diebold 2.0, with the primary objective of transforming the Company into a world-class, services-led and software enabled company, supported by innovative hardware, that automates the way people connect with their money. The turnaround is expected to occur in three phases: 1) Crawl, 2) Walk, and 3) Run. In the Crawl phase, Diebold is establishing a foundation for future growth in the Walk and Run phases. The company expects to transition from Crawl to Walk in the second half of 2015. Diebold 2.0 consists of four pillars: Streamline its cost structure and improve its near-term delivery and execution. Generate increased free cash flow in order to fund the investments necessary to drive profitable growth, while preserving the ability to return value to shareholders in the form of reliable dividends and, as appropriate, share repurchases. Attract and retain the talent necessary to drive innovation and the focused execution of the transformation strategy. Return the Company to a sustainable, profitable growth trajectory. The Company sees opportunities to leverage its capabilities in services, software and innovation to meet the needs of its rapidly evolving markets. The Company has sharpened its focus on executing its core strategies in FSS and electronic security. This includes making the appropriate investments to deliver growth within these areas, especially in research, development and engineering. In addition, the Company remains committed to a disciplined risk assessment process, focused on proactively identifying and mitigating potential risks to the Company's continued success. Diebold 2.0 - Turnaround Diebold 2.0 is built on four core pillars: cost, cash, talent and growth. Underpinned by the four core pillars, the turnaround strategy encompasses eight specific actions to achieve top-tier performance and generate sustainable, profitable growth. Eight-Point Program: 1. Establish a Competitive Cost Structure Reducing the Companys fixed cost envelope and driving operational rigor is fundamental. The multi-year transformation plan will drive efficiency while improving gross margins and operating margins. In December 2014, the Company expanded its cost savings plan from $150 through 2015 to $200 through 2017. 2. Drive Sustainable Improvement in Cash Flow The Company is committed to improving cash generation in order to increase shareholder value and fuel the investments necessary to grow the business. An emphasis on working capital efficiency and cash generation extends beyond the finance organization into our operations across all regions. For 2014, the Company was able to generate approximately $185 in operating cash flow. 3. Improve Sales Effectiveness The Companys sales teams must enhance skills, tools and market coverage to reach more prospects more effectively. To address these areas, the Company implemented Salesforce.com across our regions in 2014, which will enhance our ability to identify and pursue market opportunities more efficiently. 4. Increase Speed and Agility Streamlining the management structure will drive greater accountability, accelerate decision-making and facilitate the transition to a global business. Change is being viewed as an enabler of progress throughout the organization. Product development has been accelerated, as evidenced by the number of innovative solutions we were able to bring to market in 2014, such as the responsive banking concept and ActivEdge secure card reader. 23 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 5. Instill a Winning Culture Grounded in Execution To instill a winning culture, the Company continues to attract top talent and enhance incentives in order to create a pay for performance culture. About 55% of our current senior leadership team has joined Diebold over the past two years. These leaders bring a fresh perspective to the company as well as a strong track record of execution. Diebold has attracted talent from leading technology companies, the financial services sector and the security industry. Weve also realigned compensation targets to match our transformation objectives. 6. Collaborate With Customers and Partners to Drive Innovative Solutions The Company must accelerate new ideas through teamwork with capable partners and collaboration with customers. For example, the Company rolled out a number of innovative solutions over the past 12 months, which include the ActivEdge secure card reader, the responsive banking concept, Antimicrobial Corning Gorilla Glass and the worlds most energy efficient ATM, as well as launched its new ATM product platform. 7. Further Leverage Services and Software The Company expects the size and importance of its software stack to increase, and our expertise in services and system integration to be a key differentiator in the market. The objective is to expand the percentage of sales derived from services and software to more than 60 percent by the Run phase of the transformation. To strengthen the Companys software portfolio, Diebold acquired Phoenix Interactive Design, Inc., a world leader in developing innovative multi-vendor software solutions for ATMs and a host of other financial self-service applications. 8. Generate Long-Term, Profitable Growth The seven actions defined above are designed to put the Company on a sustainable, profitable growth trajectory. A commitment to operational rigor, improved analytics and data-driven decision-making is expected to position the Company to benefit from secular trends in managed services and mobility, expand its electronic security business and drive both organic and inorganic growth. As part of the transformation, the Company engaged Accenture LLP (Accenture) to provide finance and accounting, human resources and procurement business process outsourcing services. The Company's multi-year outsourcing agreement with Accenture focuses on creating one global delivery model that enhances the quality, controls and efficiency of the Companys integrated global business processes. The Company plans to utilize Accentures industry leading practices, technologies and global delivery network to establish more synchronized operational controls, improve operational transparency, lower spending and reduce costs. Solutions A significant demand driver in the global ATM marketplace is branch automation. The concept is to help financial institutions reduce their costs by migrating routine transactions, typically done inside the branch, to lower-cost automated channels, while also growing revenue, and adding convenience and security for the banks' customers. One area of branch automation that continues to gain traction is deposit automation. Among the largest U.S. national banks, there has been extensive deployment of deposit automation-enabled terminals. Through 2014, approximately 30 percent of ATMs globally are configured for automated deposits. Another solution the Company offers as part of its branch automation efforts is two-way video capabilities. The solution provides consumers with on-demand access to bank call center representatives right at the ATM for sales or bank account maintenance support. In addition to delivering a personal touch outside of regular business hours, it ultimately assists financial institutions by maximizing operational efficiencies, improving the consumer experience and enhancing the overall consumer relationship. Mobile integration is another emerging trend in the FSS space, as consumers look for multiple ways to interact with their financial institutions. To address this need Diebold offers a cardless Mobile Cash Access (MCA) solution, which allows consumers to initiate a transaction with their mobile device and complete it at the ATM without a card. This capability provides consumers with a more convenient and secure option, while giving financial institutions the opportunity to offer their own branded mobile wallet solution. Diebold has demonstrated success with MCA in North Americaand EMEA. The company recently announced that Banque Internationale a Luxembourg partnered with Diebold to launch this cardless transaction solution across its ATM network. A new technology that enhances security for customers is Diebolds ActivEdge secure card reader. This is the ATM industry's first complete anti-skimming card reader that prevents all known forms of skimming, the most prevalent type of ATM crime, as well as other forms of ATM fraud. ActivEdge can help financial institutions avoid skimming-related fraud losses which, according to the ATM Industry Association, total more than $2 billion annually worldwide. ActivEdge requires users to insert cards into the reader via the long edge, instead of the traditional short edge. We believe by shifting a card's angle 90 degrees, ActivEdge prevents modern skimming devices from reading the card's full magnetic strip, eliminating the devices' ability to steal card data. 24 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) The Company leverages its strong base of maintenance and advanced services to deliver comprehensive managed services. Banks are continuously being challenged to reduce costs while increasing operational efficiencies. Through managed services, banks entrust the management of their ATM and security operations to Diebold, allowing their staffs to focus on core competencies. Furthermore, the Company's managed services offering provides banks and credit unions with the leading-edge technology they need to stay competitive in the marketplace. Diebold is a leader in managed services for financial institutions in North America with over 27,000 ATMs under management. Another opportunity for a successful managed services approach relates to security challenges and the systems to address them, which have grown increasingly complex. This has created a strong business case among financial institutions and commercial customers for managed services, particularly in the areas of monitoring, services and software management. Today, the Company is focusing its expertise on the financial and commercial sectors, with a dedicated effort to secure large, complex and technologically demanding projects. The Company has customer-focused teams that possess high levels of logical and enterprise security expertise that are required in this business. The Company is also leveraging best practices and some of the best talent to continue building upon its security managed service business. As it relates to the security business, the Companys SecureStat online security management tool streamlines how customers manage their security operations. At the core of the solution is a personalized dashboard that utilizes customizable, distinct widgets to provide a snapshot of a user's entire security platform, including locations, security systems and devices. In addition, SecureStat can unify security services and disparate systems, while providing a single interface for real-time administration of security operations across an enterprise. To further build out the capabilities of SecureStat, Diebold and Eagle Eye Networks, Inc., have formalized the security industry's first national strategic alliance to deliver cloud-based video services. The new video solutions will offer services that stream and store live and recorded video, provide flexible cloud storage, and generate notification and real-time analytics. Customers will be able to access and manage these new video services from Diebold's centralized software-as-a-service solution - SecureStat. This is an example of the software driven platforms the Company is investing in to strengthen its suite of solutions and differentiate itself in the market. Moving forward, the Company intends to create shareholder value by leveraging the opportunities it sees within the area of branch automation, growing its services, outsourcing and software capabilities, further building out its electronic security business and taking advantage of key trends around the world. Many opportunities lie ahead, and the Company will continue to invest in developing new services, software and security solutions that align with the needs of its core markets. Multi-Year Transformation Plan The Company is committed to its multi-year transformation plan aimed at establishing a competitive cost structure throughout the organization. The Company has identified targeted savings of $200 that are expected to be fully realized by the end of 2017 and plans to reinvest a portion of the savings, approximately 50 percent, to drive long-term growth. Areas of reinvestment include: research and development of innovative new customer solutions; improving and updating the Company's information technology systems and infrastructure; transforming the general and administrative back-office functions; and strengthening sales coverage and marketing, processes and tools. In addition, some of the savings should offset price erosion, wage inflation in emerging markets and volatile commodity prices in the Companys core business. Given these factors, the Company anticipates that approximately 50 percent of the savings will positively impact operating profit. In addition to the cost savings impact, the Company expects that the plan will enhance its competitive position by focusing on globalizing the Company's service organization, creating a unified center-led global organization for research and development as well as transforming the Company's general and administrative cost structure. Restructuring charges associated with the multi-year transformation plan were $3.1 and $5.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Restructuring charges for the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily related to severance costs of employees due to the Company's business process outsourcing initiative with Accenture. Business Drivers The business drivers of the Company's future performance include, but are not limited to: demand for services and software, including managed services and professional services; timing of self-service equipment upgrades and/or replacement cycles, including deposit automation in mature markets such as the United States; demand for products and solutions related to bank branch automation opportunities; demand for security products and services for the financial and commercial sectors; and high levels of deployment growth for new self-service products in emerging markets. 25 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Results of Operations Net (loss) income attributable to Diebold, Incorporated for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $(2.8) or $(0.04) per share, a decrease of $12.6 and $0.19 per share, respectively, from the same period in 2014 . Total revenue for the three months ended March 31, 2015 was $655.5 , a decrease of $32.8 compared to the same period in 2014 . FSS revenue in the first quarter of 2015 increased $28.7 or 6.2 percent compared to the same period of 2014. Security revenue grew $7.6 or 5.3 percent compared to the same period in 2014. In January 2015, the Company announced the realignment of its Brazil and Latin America (LA) businesses to drive greater efficiency and further improve customer service. In the first quarter of 2015, LA and Brazil operations are reported under one single reportable operating segment and comparative periods have been reclassified for consistency. The presentation of comparative periods also reflects the reclassification of certain global expenses from segment operating profit to corporate charges not allocated to segments due to the 2015 realignment activities. On March 13, 2015, the Company acquired all of the equity interests of Phoenix Interactive Design, Inc. (Phoenix) for a total purchase price of approximately $72.9 , including $12.6 of deferred cash payment payable over the next three years. Acquiring Phoenix, a world leader in developing innovative software solutions for ATMs and a host of other FSS applications, is a foundational move to accelerate the Companys growth in the fast-growing managed services and branch automation spaces. The results of operations for Phoenix are included in the North America (NA) reportable operating segment within the Company's condensed consolidated financial statements from the date of the acquisition. Preliminary purchase price allocations are subject to further adjustment until all pertinent information regarding the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are fully evaluated. The Company's Venezuelan operations consist of a fifty-percent owned subsidiary, which is consolidated. Venezuela is measured using the U.S. dollar as its functional currency because its economy is considered highly inflationary. On March 24, 2014, the Venezuelan government announced a currency exchange mechanism, SICAD 2, which yielded an exchange rate significantly higher than the rates established through the other regulated exchange mechanisms. As of March 31, 2014, management determined it was unlikely the Company would be able to convert bolivars under a currency exchange other than SICAD 2 and the Company remeasured its Venezuelan balance sheet using the SICAD 2 rate of 50.86 compared to the previous official government rate of 6.30 , resulting in a decrease of $6.1 to the Companys cash balance and net losses of $12.1 that were recorded within foreign exchange (loss) gain, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first quarter of 2014. As a result of the currency devaluation, the Company recorded a $4.1 lower of cost or market adjustment related to its service inventory within service cost of sales in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first quarter of 2014. On February 10, 2015, the Venezuelan government introduced a new foreign currency exchange platform called the Marginal Currency System, or SIMADI, which replaces the SICAD 2 mechanism, yielding another significant increase in the exchange rate. As of March 31, 2015, management determined it is unlikely that the Company will be able to convert bolivars under a currency exchange other than SIMADI and remeasured its Venezuelan balance sheet using the SIMADI rate of 192.95 compared to the previous SICAD 2 rate of 50.86 , which resulted in a loss of $7.5 recorded within foreign exchange (loss) gain, net in the condensed consolidated statements of operations in the first quarter of 2015. As of March 31, 2015, the Company agreed to sell its equity interest in its Venezuela joint venture to its joint venture partner. While this effectively ends our relationship in the joint partnership, the Company will continue to operate in Venezuela on an indirect basis. The Venezuelan assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale on the condensed consolidated balance sheet because the Company agreed to sell its equity interest to its joint venture partner for a nominal value. As a result, the Company recorded charges of $10.3 . The charges are located in impairment of assets on the condensed consolidated statement of operations. On April 29, 2015, the Company closed the sale for the estimated fair market value and no additional impairment was required. As a result of the sale, the Company will no longer have a consolidating entity in Venezuela. The following discussion of the Companys financial condition and results of operations provides information that will assist in understanding the financial statements and the changes in certain key items in those financial statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report. 26 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Dollars % of Net sales Dollars % of Net sales Net sales $ 655.5 100.0 $ 688.3 100.0 Gross profit 175.3 26.7 164.1 23.8 Operating expenses 171.7 26.2 140.8 20.5 Operating profit 3.6 0.5 23.3 3.4 Net (loss) income (5.6 ) (0.9 ) 4.9 0.7 Net loss attributable to noncontrolling interests (2.8 ) (0.4 ) (4.9 ) (0.7 ) Net (loss) income attributable to Diebold, Incorporated (2.8 ) (0.4 ) 9.8 1.4 First Quarter 2015 Comparisons to First Quarter 2014 Net Sales The following table represents information regarding our net sales: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change Financial self-service 495.2 466.5 6.2 Security 150.0 142.4 5.3 Brazil other 10.3 79.4 (87.0 ) Total customer revenue $ 655.5 $ 688.3 (4.8 ) FSS revenue in the first quarter of 2015 increased $28.7 or 6.2 percent compared to the same period of 2014, including net unfavorable currency impact of $24.3 or 5.9 percent related mainly to the Brazilian real and Euro. The following commentary concerning segment variances include the impact of foreign currency. NA increased $15.9 or 8.4 percent due primarily to higher volume within Canada from a large deposit automation upgrade project that favorably impacted the first quarter of 2015. NA revenue also benefited from an improvement in the regional business driven by Microsoft Windows upgrade activity, which was more than offset by a product revenue decline in national accounts from lower volume. Asia Pacific (AP) increased $2.4 or 2.3 percent from service revenue growth mainly in India and China related to higher managed services and traditional maintenance revenue, partially offset by a decline in product revenue stemming from lower volume particularly in China. Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) increased $2.6 or 3.1 percent principally from higher volume within Africa as well as the benefit of the Cryptera acquisition, which occurred in the third quarter of 2014, offset by net unfavorable currency impact of $14.4 spread throughout the region. LA increased $7.7 or 8.8 percent due to higher volume in Brazil and increased installations in Mexico, partially offset by an unfavorable currency impact of $7.5 in Brazil and lower service revenue in Venezuela as a result of the continued currency devaluation. Security revenue increased compared to the same period of 2014 as growth in the electronic security business more than offset a minimal decline in physical security revenue. NA accounted for the majority of the security revenue improvement as the region increased $6.6 or 5.2 percent. Brazil other decreased due to large deliveries of information technology (IT) equipment to a Brazilian education ministry in the first quarter of 2014 and unfavorable currency impact of $14.7 partially offset by lottery volume in the first quarter of 2015. 27 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Gross Profit The following table represents information regarding our gross profit: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change Gross profit - services $ 121.1 $ 108.1 12.0 Gross profit - products 54.2 56.0 (3.2 ) Total gross profit $ 175.3 $ 164.1 6.8 Gross margin services 30.7 % 28.2 % Gross margin products 20.7 % 18.4 % Total gross margin 26.7 % 23.8 % Service gross margin improved 2.5 percentage points to 30.7 percent compared with the first quarter of 2014. This increase was primarily driven by margin improvements in each of the international segments coupled with favorable revenue mix between the regions. Service margin in the first quarter of 2014 was adversely affected by a $4.1 lower of cost or market adjustment related to its service inventory as a result the Venezuelan currency devaluation which resulted in the LA margin increase between years. Product gross margin improved 2.3 percentage points to 20.7 percent compared with the first quarter of 2014. The increase in product gross margin resulted mainly from improved margins in NA due to favorable customer revenue mix as well as in EMEA largely as a result of the Cryptera acquisition. Operating Expenses The following table represents information regarding our operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change Selling and administrative expense $ 129.9 $ 120.3 8.0 Research, development and engineering expense 22.3 20.0 11.5 Impairment of assets 19.4 Loss on sale of assets, net 0.1 0.5 (80.0 ) Total operating expenses $ 171.7 $ 140.8 21.9 The increase in selling and administrative expense resulted from higher expense associated with transformation initiatives specific to back office transformation and talent management as well as higher non-routine expenses, partially offset by favorable currency impact of $4.8 and lower restructuring charges. Selling and administrative expense in the first quarter of 2015 and 2014 included non-routine expenses of $4.6 and $1.1, respectively. The non-routine expense in both years pertained to legal, indemnification and professional fees. In addition, selling and administrative expense included $2.5 and $4.4 of restructuring charges in the first quarter of 2015 and 2014, respectively. Research, development and engineering expense as a percent of net sales in 2015 and 2014 were 3.4 percent and 2.9 percent, respectively. The spend increase between years was mainly due to increased staffing expense and restructuring charges of $0.6 in the first quarter of 2015, offset in part by favorable currency impact of $0.4. As of March 31, 2015, the Venezuelan assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale on the condensed consolidated balance sheet (refer to note 1 to the notes to the condensed consolidated financial statements). The Company has agreed in principle to sell its equity interest in its Venezuela joint venture to its joint venture partner and, as a result, has recorded an impairment of $10.3 to reduce the carrying value of the net assets to the estimated fair market value. Additionally, during the first quarter of 2015, the Company recorded an impairment of capitalized software of $9.1 related to redundant legacy Diebold software as a result of the acquisition of Phoenix. 28 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Operating Profit The following table represents information regarding our operating profit: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change Operating profit $ 3.6 $ 23.3 (84.5 ) Operating profit margin 0.5 % 3.4 % The decrease in operating profit was influenced primarily by higher non-routine expense mainly due to impairment charges in the first quarter of 2015, a decline in product revenue primarily associated with large deliveries of IT equipment to a Brazilian education ministry in the first quarter of 2014 and higher spend attributable to investment into transformation strategies. Conversely, operating profit benefited mainly from higher service revenue and an improvement in total margin, partially attributable to the negative impact of a $4.1 lower of cost or market adjustment in Venezuela in the first quarter of 2014. Other Income (Expense) The following table represents information regarding our other income (expense): Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change Investment income $ 7.9 $ 8.7 (9.2 ) Interest expense (8.0 ) (6.9 ) (15.9 ) Foreign exchange (loss) gain, net (9.3 ) (12.0 ) 22.5 Miscellaneous, net (1.2 ) (1.4 ) 14.3 Other income (expense), net $ (10.6 ) $ (11.6 ) 8.6 The foreign exchange (loss) gain, net in 2015 included $7.5 related to the devaluation of the Venezuelan currency. Similarly, the first quarter of 2014 included a $12.1 devaluation of the Venezuelan balance sheet. Net (Loss) Income The following table represents information regarding our net income: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 % Change Net (loss) income $ (5.6 ) $ 4.9 Percent of net sales (0.9 )% 0.7 % Effective tax rate 20.0 % 58.1 % The decrease in net (loss) income was driven by lower operating profit mostly related to higher non-routine expense inclusive of impairment charges, increased spend affiliated with investments in the Companys transformation efforts and lower product revenue due to large IT equipment installations in the prior year comparable period. These decreases to operating profit were partially offset by higher service revenue, an improvement in total margin and lower tax expense. The effective tax rate was 20.0% on the loss for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 58.1% on the income for the three months ended March 31, 2014. The decrease in the tax rate is mainly due to differences in the mix of income, discrete tax items resulting from the Venezuelan operations, and the release of a valuation allowance during the three-month period ended March 31, 2015. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2014, discrete tax expense was recorded on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings. 29 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Revenue and Operating Profit Summary The following tables represent information regarding our revenue and operating profit by reporting segment: Three Months Ended March 31, North America 2015 2014 % Change Revenue $ 339.9 $ 317.5 7.1 Segment operating profit $ 67.7 $ 59.4 14.0 Segment operating profit margin 19.9 % 18.7 % NA revenue increased primarily due to a large deposit automation upgrade project for a Canadian customer which began in the third quarter of 2014, higher revenue in the regional FSS business generated from Microsoft Windows upgrades and continued growth in the electronic security business, offset in part by a decline in national FSS product revenue from lower volume. Operating profit increased due to growth in product and service revenue combined with an improvement in product margin resulting from favorable customer revenue mix, partially offset by an increase in operating expense mainly associated with increased compensation and benefits. Three Months Ended March 31, Asia Pacific 2015 2014 % Change Revenue 110.5 107.1 3.2 Segment operating profit 18.2 16.8 8.3 Segment operating profit margin 16.5 % 15.7 % Revenue increased from service revenue growth mainly in India and China related to higher managed services and traditional maintenance revenue. This was partially offset by a decline in product revenue stemming from lower volume primarily in China, where the government is encouraging banks to increase their use of domestic ATM suppliers. Operating profit increased from higher service revenue coupled with favorable service margin performance offset by increased operating expense resulting principally from higher employee related cost and back office transformation expense. Three Months Ended March 31, Europe, Middle East and Africa 2015 2014 % Change Revenue 86.8 84.1 3.2 Segment operating profit 12.4 11.2 10.7 Segment operating profit margin 14.3 % 13.3 % Revenue increased mainly from higher volume within Africa as well as the benefit of the Cryptera acquisition, which occurred in the third quarter of 2014, offset by a net unfavorable currency impact of $14.4 spread throughout the region. The operating profit increase between years was driven by an improvement in total margin partially offset by higher operating expense mainly attributable to higher compensation and benefits, additional spend resulting from the Cryptera acquisition and back office transformation expense. Three Months Ended March 31, Latin America 2015 2014 % Change Revenue 118.3 179.6 (34.1 ) Segment operating profit 3.1 11.5 (73.0 ) Segment operating profit margin 2.6 % 6.4 % The revenue decrease resulted from large deliveries of IT equipment to a Brazilian education ministry in the first quarter of 2014, net unfavorable currency impact of $23.0 in Brazil and lower service revenue in Venezuela as a result of the continued currency devaluation. Revenue was favorably impacted by higher FSS revenue, mainly in Brazil from volume growth and Mexico due to increased installation activity, as well as lottery volume in the first quarter of 2015. Operating profit decreased mainly due to the IT related volume decline in Brazil offset by an increase in Venezuela primarily from a $4.1 lower of cost or market adjustment in the first quarter of 2014 associated with service inventory due to the Venezuelan bolivar devaluation. Refer to note 18 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details of segment revenue and operating profit. 30 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's total cash and cash availability as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was as follows: March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Cash and cash equivalents $ 227.1 $ 322.0 Additional cash availability from: Short-term uncommitted lines of credit 78.3 115.2 Five-year credit facility 225.0 280.0 Short-term investments 114.4 136.7 Total Cash and Cash Availability $ 644.8 $ 853.9 Capital resources are obtained from income retained in the business, borrowings under the Companys senior notes, committed and uncommitted credit facilities, long-term industrial revenue bonds and operating and capital leasing arrangements. For $175.0 of the Company's senior notes maturing in March 2016, management intends to secure the repayment through additional financing. Outside of the maturing notes, management expects that the Companys capital resources will be sufficient to finance planned working capital needs, research and development activities, investments in facilities or equipment, pension contributions, the payment of dividends on the Companys common shares and any repurchases of the Companys common shares for at least the next 12 months. As of March 31, 2015 , $337.2 or 98.7 percent of the Company's cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments reside in international tax jurisdictions. Repatriation of these funds could be negatively impacted by potential payments for foreign and domestic taxes. The Company has $147.7 that is available for repatriation with no additional tax expense as the Company has already provided for such taxes. Part of the Companys growth strategy is to pursue strategic acquisitions. The Company has made acquisitions in the past and intends to make acquisitions in the future. The Company intends to finance any future acquisitions with either cash and short-term investments, cash provided from operations, borrowings under available credit facilities, proceeds from debt or equity offerings and/or the issuance of common shares. The following table summarizes the results of our condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended March 31 : Net cash flow (used in) provided by: 2015 2014 Operating activities $ (62.2 ) $ (31.6 ) Investing activities (70.1 ) 28.1 Financing activities 52.2 1.2 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (14.8 ) (11.2 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (94.9 ) $ (13.5 ) Net cash used in operating activities was $62.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , an increase of $30.6 from $31.6 for the same period in 2014 . Cash flows from operating activities are generated primarily from net income and increases in the non-cash components of working capital. Cash flows from operating activities during three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period of 2014, were unfavorably impacted primarily by increases in trade receivables, inventories, prepaid expenses and other current assets and the decreases in accrued salaries, wages and commissions, and certain other assets and liabilities. These changes related primarily to timing of payments received from customers, the timing of our billing cycle, an increase in inventory on-hand due to the timing of shipments and installations for our customers. These changes were partially offset by the changes in accounts payable, deferred revenue, deferred income tax and finance lease receivables primarily due to the timing of payments compared to the prior-year period. The cash flow impact associated with deferred revenue largely represents prepayments received on service contracts and product sales, which is lower than the same period in 2014. Cash flows from finance lease receivables improved by $98.0 and deferred income tax of $21.5 compared to the same period of 2014. Finance lease receivables decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2015 primarily due to recurring customer payments for financing arrangements. Net cash used in investing activities was $70.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $28.1 for the same period in 2014 . The $98.2 change was mostly related to the acquisition of Phoenix in March 2015 for a cash payment of $59.4 , less cash acquired, and to a decrease in proceeds from maturities of investments, partially offset by decreased payments for purchases of investments. Net cash provided by financing activities was $52.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $1.2 for the same period in 2014 . The change was primarily due to a $60.7 increase in debt borrowings, 31 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) net of repayments, year over year offset by a decrease of $9.6 in issuances of common shares related to share-based compensation activity. Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents was negatively impacted by $9.5 and $6.1 related to the currency devaluation in Venezuela for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. As of March 31, 2015 , the Company had various international short-term uncommitted lines of credit with borrowing limits of $122.3 . The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding borrowings on the short-term uncommitted lines of credit as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was 3.02 percent and 2.96 percent , respectively. The increase in the weighted-average interest rate is attributable to the change in mix of borrowings in foreign entities. Short-term uncommitted lines mature in less than one year . The amount available under the short-term uncommitted lines at March 31, 2015 was $78.3 . In August 2014, the Company amended and extended its credit facility, including an increase to its borrowing limits under the new credit facility from $500.0 to $520.0 . The amended and extended credit facility expires in August 2019 and did not change any of the covenants related to the previous agreement. Under the terms of the amended and extended credit facility, the Company has the ability, subject to various approvals, to increase the borrowing limits by $250.0 . Up to $50.0 of the revolving credit facility is available under a swing line sub-facility. The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding credit facility borrowings as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 was 1.69 percent , respectively, which is variable based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ). The amount available under the credit facility as of March 31, 2015 was $225.0 . In March 2006, the Company issued senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of $300.0 with a weighted-average fixed interest rate of 5.50 percent . The Company entered into a derivative transaction to hedge interest rate risk on $200.0 of the senior notes, which was treated as a cash flow hedge. This reduced the effective interest rate from 5.50 percent to 5.36 percent . The Company funded the repayment of $75.0 of the senior notes at maturity in March 2013 using borrowings under its revolving credit facility. The maturity dates of the remaining senior notes are staggered, with $175.0 and $50.0 due in March 2016 and 2018 , respectively. For the $175.0 of the Company's senior notes maturing in March 2016, management intends to secure the repayment through additional financing. In 1997, industrial development revenue bonds were issued on behalf of the Company. The proceeds from the bond issuances were used to construct new manufacturing facilities in the United States. The Company guaranteed the payments of principal and interest on the bonds by obtaining letters of credit. The bonds were issued with a 20-year original term and are scheduled to mature in 2017 . Each industrial development revenue bond carries a variable interest rate, which is reset weekly by the remarketing agents. The weighted-average interest rate on the bonds was 0.21 percent and 0.27 percent as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , respectively. The Companys financing agreements contain various restrictive financial covenants, including net debt to capitalization and net interest coverage ratios. As of March 31, 2015 , the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements. Dividends The Company paid dividends of $18.9 and $18.7 in the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Quarterly dividends were $0.2875 per share for both periods. Contractual Obligations In the first three months of 2015, the Company entered into purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price. As of March 31, 2015 , these additional contracts have remaining balances of $6.4 . Except for the contract manufacturing agreements noted above, all contractual cash obligations with initial and remaining terms in excess of one year and contingent liabilities remained generally unchanged at March 31, 2015 compared to December 31, 2014 . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the condensed consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees, operating leases and sales of finance receivables. The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to make payment, the suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. Refer to note 13 to the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details of guarantees. The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables. The Company records these sales by removing finance receivables from the condensed consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the condensed consolidated statements of income. 32 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Such estimates include revenue recognition, the valuation of trade, finance lease receivables, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, other long-lived assets, legal contingencies, guarantee obligations and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, pension and post-retirement benefits and customer incentives, among others. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors. Management monitors the economic conditions and other factors and will adjust such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. Management believes there have been no significant changes during the three months ended March 31, 2015 to the items that the Company disclosed as its critical accounting policies and estimates in managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 . Forward-Looking Statement Disclosure In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, statements that are not reported financial results or other historical information are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the Company's future operating performance, the Company's share of new and existing markets, the Company's short- and long-term revenue and earnings growth rates, and the Company's implementation of cost-reduction initiatives and measures to improve pricing, including the optimization of the Company's manufacturing capacity. The use of the words will, believes, anticipates, expects, intends and similar expressions is intended to identify forward-looking statements that have been made and may in the future be made by or on behalf of the Company. Although the Company believes that these forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions regarding, among other things, the economy, its knowledge of its business, and on key performance indicators that impact the Company, these forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. The Company is not obligated to update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Some of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: competitive pressures, including pricing pressures and technological developments; changes in the Company's relationships with customers, suppliers, distributors and/or partners in its business ventures; changes in political, economic or other factors such as currency exchange rates, inflation rates, recessionary or expansive trends, taxes and regulations and laws affecting the worldwide business in each of the Company's operations; global economic conditions, including any additional deterioration and disruptions in the financial markets, including bankruptcies, restructurings or consolidations of financial institutions, which could reduce our customer base and/or adversely affect our customers ability to make capital expenditures, as well as adversely impact the availability and cost of credit; acceptance of the Company's product and technology introductions in the marketplace; the Companys ability to maintain effective internal controls; changes in the Companys intention to further repatriate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments residing in international tax jurisdictions could negatively impact foreign and domestic taxes; unanticipated litigation, claims or assessments, as well as the outcome/impact of any current/pending litigation, claims or assessments, including but not limited to, the Company's Brazilian tax dispute; variations in consumer demand for FSS technologies, products and services; potential security violations to the Company's information technology systems; the investment performance of the Companys pension plan assets, which could require the Company to increase its pension contributions, and significant changes in healthcare costs, including those that may result from government action; 33 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2015 DIEBOLD, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) the amount and timing of repurchases of the Companys common shares, if any; and the Company's ability to achieve benefits from its cost-reduction initiatives and other strategic changes, including its multi-year transformation plan and other restructuring actions, as well as its business process outsourcing initiative.