Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Significant Highlights During the first quarter of 2021, the Company: Made significant progress with certifications and new orders for next-generation DN Series ATMs Five of the top 10 banks in the United States have ordered DN Series ATMs, including an order for more than 400 cash recyclers from a top 10 bank in the United States that had not purchased hardware from the Company during the past several years In Latin America, the Company received DN Series orders from customers in Mexico, Columbia, Peru and Honduras, including an agreement with Banco Nacional de Mexico to deliver approximately 1,200 DN Series ATMs, Vynamic software licenses and two years of maintenance services In Eurasia, the Company booked orders with customers in Germany, Spain, South Africa, Egypt and Hong Kong, including a new customer win for approximately 150 cash recyclers at a tier 1 bank in Vietnam Secured Managed Services contracts which generate recurring revenue Won a five-year contract to be the sole-source supplier for maintenance, monitoring and help desk services for more than 4,000 self-service terminals at a top 5 bank in the United Kingdom Extended a multi-year contract with the largest private sector bank in India for 1,200 ATMs and increased the contract scope to include 300 new DN Series ATMs and the AllConnect DataEngine Agreed to a three-year Self-Service support contract extension with HSBC in Hong Kong covering more than 3,500 terminals Seeing increased demand for self-checkout (SCO) and point-of-sale (POS) solutions Signed a multi-year agreement with French retail group Les Mousquetaires to transform the checkout experience at nearly 2,000 stores in France with next-generation POS and SCO products, AllConnect Data Engine and Vynamic Self-Service software Received orders for 3,000 Beetle EPOS units to refresh the checkout experience at a top grocer in the U.S. Secured an initial order to deploy DN Series EASY SCO devices at a leading convenience store retailer operating in U.S. airports and other tourist destinations A leading furniture retailer in Europe purchased Vynamic Marketing software to harmonize discount and marketing campaigns across different customer touchpoints Awarded the prestigious Red Dot Award: Product Design 2021 for the DN Series EASY eXpress Max retail self-service solution Won an EHI Retail Institute award with customer IKEA for Best AI & Robotics Application as a direct result of an innovative, self-service solution Overview Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes that appear within this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Introduction The Company is a world leader in enabling Connected Commerce. The Company automates, digitizes and transforms the way people bank and shop. The Companys integrated solutions connect digital and physical channels conveniently, securely and efficiently for millions of consumers every day. As an innovation partner for a majority of the world's top 100 financial institutions and top 25 global retailers, the Company delivers unparalleled services and technology that power the daily operations and consumer experience of banks and retailers around the world. The Company has a presence in more than 100 countries with approximately 22,000 employees worldwide. Strategy The Company seeks to continually enhance the consumer experience at bank and retail locations while simultaneously streamlining cost structures and business processes through the smart integration of hardware, software and services. The Company partners with other leading technology companies and regularly refines its research and development (R&D) spend to support a better transaction experience for consumers. 29 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) DN Now Transformation Activities Commensurate with its strategy, the Company is executing its multi-year transformation program called DN Now to relentlessly focus on its customers while improving operational excellence. Large restructuring costs related to its transformation are concluding in 2021 and the Company expects to incur up to $50 million of cash payments. Key activities include: Transitioning to a streamlined and customer-centric operating model Implementing a services modernization plan which focuses on upgrading certain customer touchpoints, automating incident reporting and response, standardizing service offerings and connecting distributed IT assets to the AllConnect Data Engine Streamlining the manufacturing footprint, reducing the number of ATM models and rolling out DN Series ATMs Improving working capital management through greater focus and efficiency of payables, receivables and inventory Reducing administrative expenses, including finance, information technology (IT) and real estate by leveraging digital and cloud-based solutions Increasing sales productivity through improved coverage and compensation arrangements Standardizing, digitizing and automating back-office finance, IT, human resources and sales support processes through a partnership with Accenture Optimizing the portfolio of businesses to improve overall profitability COVID-19 The Company continues to deliver high levels of service to customers and has taken multiple measures to protect its employees during the COVID-19 pandemic. The Company has been designated as providing critical infrastructure services by the majority of government entities around the world, including the United States Department of Homeland Security in order to promote public health and safety, as well as economic and national security during the COVID-19 pandemic. These designations recognize the vital role the Company plays in allowing consumers to reliably and safely access financial services and essential retailers across more than 60 countries. Although business conditions for us, our customers and suppliers improved, there is some measure of uncertainty surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, we are continuing to see increasing lead times for certain electronic components and we are managing the impacts on our business. The possible resurgence of COVID-19 infection rates and government actions in response thereto could disrupt our operations and our supply chain and materially adversely affect our business. Because the situation continues to evolve, we cannot reasonably estimate the ultimate impact to our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position that the COVID-19 pandemic may have, and any such impact could be material. CONNECTED COMMERCE SOLUTIONS The Company offers a broad portfolio of solutions designed to automate, digitize and transform the way people bank and shop. As a result, the Companys operating structure is focused on its two customer segments Banking and Retail. Leveraging a broad portfolio of solutions, the Company offers customers the flexibility to purchase the combination of services, software and products that drive the most value to their business. Banking The Company provides integrated solutions for financial institutions of all sizes designed to help drive operational efficiencies, differentiate the consumer experience, grow revenue and manage risk. Banking operations are managed within two geographic regions. The Eurasia Banking region includes the economies of Western Europe, Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa. The Americas Banking region encompasses the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico and Latin America. 30 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Banking Services The DN AllConnect Services portfolio is designed for financial institutions of all sizes who are looking to outsource part or all of their ATM fleet operations, through a managed services or ATM as a Service model. The Company provides the intellectual knowledge, human capital and information technology needed to maintain and upgrade these distributed assets throughout their life cycle. DN AllConnect Services leverages scalable solutions based on globally standardized processes and tools, a single point of contact and reliable local expertise. The portfolio of DN AllConnect Services includes: Installation: end-to-end ATM deployment, implementation and full branch design and deployment services Availability: first and second line maintenance as well as help desk services Managed Services: a range of a la carte or bundled Self-Service Fleet Management services including event management and monitoring, integrated service desk, software deployment, cash management and optimization, security and marketing. Branch Management: a range of services which transform and optimize bank branch operations. The DN AllConnect Data Engine (ACDE) leverages Internet of Things (IoT) technology to enable a data-driven approach to services. ACDE extracts machine performance data, uploads it to the cloud and applies machine learning algorithms in order to shift the service model to be proactive and predictive. As the number of connected devices increases, the Company expects to deliver higher availability for self-service channels while reducing call rates, which leads to more cost-effective operations. Banking Products The banking portfolio of products consists of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation and kiosk technologies. As financial institutions seek to expand the self-service transaction set and reduce operating costs by shrinking their physical branch footprint, the Company is introducing and selling DN Series ATMs. DN Series is the culmination of several years of investment in consumer research, design and engineering resources. Key benefits and features of DN Series include: Superior availability and performance through intelligent design and the use of the ACDE Next-generation cash recycling technology Full integration with the DN Vynamic software suite A modular and upgradeable design which enables customers to respond more quickly to changing customer demands Higher note capacity and processing power Improved security safeguards to protect customers against emerging physical, data and cyber threats A streamlined footprint which is up to 40% less than both legacy models and certain competing ATMs Improved security safeguards protecting against emerging physical, data and cyber threats. Optimized ATM portfolio streamlining the supply chain and shortening lead times due to reduce platform complexity Increased branding options for financial institutions Banking Software The Companys DN Vynamic Software is an open and flexible software portfolio that is aligned with how financial institutions operate. Different capabilities can be bundled to support and enhance a modern banking ecosystem including channels, operations, consumer experience and payments. The Companys software encompasses front-end applications for consumer connection points, digital solutions that enhance consumer-facing offerings, as well as back-end platforms which manage channel transactions, operations and channel integration. These hardware-agnostic software applications facilitate millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices, as well as via online and mobile digital channels. 31 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Self-service channel software includes multivendor terminal, security, availability and monitoring software, all of which facilitates millions of transactions via ATMs, kiosks, and other self-service devices. The software has evolved to utilize WebApp architecture and application program interfaces (APIs) to easily add advanced services such as connecting to the banking core systems, enabling cash recycling and other transaction capabilities. Complementary components of the Vynamic Portfolio, including our most recent introduction Vynamic Payments, are built on a cloud native platform. These scalable, API-enabled offerings deliver enhanced features for customers such as cardless/touchless transactions, personalized marketing, and video-teller capabilities. Enhanced features are made available to customers through a Software as a Service consumption model and allow for new levels of bank efficiency. Unlike legacy software suites, Vynamic Payments microservices architecture, breaks down traditional software silos to enable business agility and create consumer experiences that seamlessly bridge any channel, any integration point, any payment type and any authentication method. The Vynamic Software portfolio is offered as a unified release ensuring full software integration and interoperability with an enhanced focus on quality, stability, and resiliency. The DN Software and Services organizations deliver all components of an end-to-end solution within a single release. This enables customers to enhance their self-service fleet with new features and functionality faster and at a reduced cost. Retail The Companys comprehensive portfolio of retail services, products and software improves the checkout process for retailers while enhancing shopping experiences for consumers. Retail Services DN AllConnect Services for retailers include maintenance and availability services to continuously optimize the performance and total cost of ownership of retail touchpoints, such as checkout, self-service and mobile devices, as well as critical store infrastructure. The solutions portfolio includes: implementation services to expand, modernize or upgrade store concepts; maintenance services for on-site incident resolution and restoration of multivendor solutions; support services for on-demand service desk support; operations services for remote monitoring of stationary and mobile endpoint hardware; as well as application services for remote monitoring of multivendor software and planned software deployments and data moves. As a single point of contact, service personnel plan and supervise store openings, renewals and transformation projects, with attention to local details and customers global IT infrastructure. Retail Products The retail product portfolio includes modular and integrated, all-in-one POS and self-service terminals that meet changing consumer shopping journeys, as well as retailers and store staffs automation requirements. Anchored by the newly launched DN SERIES EASY line, the Companys SCO products and ordering kiosks facilitate a seamless and efficient transaction experience. The BEETLE/iSCAN EASY eXpress, hybrid products, can alternate from attended operation to SCO with the press of a button. The K-two Kiosk automates routine tasks and in-store transactions, offers order-taking abilities, particularly at quick service restaurants and fast casual restaurants and presents functionality that furthers store automation and digitalization. Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio, which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems. Retail Software DN Vynamic Software for Retail is an open and flexible software portfolio built to align with how retailers operate. Different capabilities can be bundled to support the modern retail ecosystem across many retail verticals including grocery, fashion, convenience, fuel, food and specialty retail. Consumption models are flexible; being both cloud-enabled and/or on-premise solutions. The modular micro-services architecture allows Vynamic Software to easily scale up or down as needed. Vynamic software for Retail promotes standards and open API-based architectures giving retailers the ability to integrate third-party technologies to enable the best customer journey possible and to optimize efficiency and reduce costs across every part of the retail process, from consumer-facing transactions to store operations to enterprise management. 32 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) The software suite enables retailers to upgrade and orchestrate consumer and staff journeys across all channels and touchpoints by providing personalized, efficient and secure check-out solutions. The software supports a staffed point-of-sale checkout, handheld self-scanning devices or SCO terminals. The self-service element of the software suite leverages advanced artificial intelligence algorithms and other advancements for automatic item recognition, automated age verifications for certain items and screen mirroring to offer touchless checkout processes as well as support for advanced loyalty programs. The Vynamic suite supports online and offline promotions in real time, dynamic consumer segmentation, and flexible digital or print couponing. Business operations are optimized with Vynamic Retail including automated merchandise collection, in-store ordering and return-in-store processes, stock management, pricing management, etc., via store management solutions. Business Drivers The business drivers of the Company's future performance include, but are not limited to: Demand for services on distributed IT assets such as ATMs, POS and SCO, including managed services and professional services Timing of product upgrades and/or replacement cycles for ATMs, POS and SCO Demand for advanced self-service capabilities supported by the Companys software licenses, maintenance and professional services Demand for innovative and secure technology in connection with the Company's Connected Commerce strategy Integration of sales force, business processes, procurement, and internal IT systems Execution and risk management associated with DN Now transformational activities Realization of cost reductions, which leverage the Company's global scale, reduce overlap and improve operating efficiencies Results of Operations The following discussion of the Companys financial condition and results of operations provides information that will assist in understanding the financial statements and the changes in certain key items in those financial statements. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes that appear elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 33 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Net Sales The following tables represent information regarding the Company's net sales: Three Months Ended Percent of Total Net Sales for the Three Months Ended March 31, March 31, 2021 2020 % Change % Change in CC (1) 2021 2020 Segments Eurasia Banking Services $ 189.6 $ 206.0 (8.0) (13.9) 20.1 22.6 Products 138.2 104.5 32.2 24.2 14.6 11.5 Total Eurasia Banking 327.8 310.5 5.6 (1.1) 34.7 34.1 Americas Banking Services 227.7 239.5 (4.9) (3.5) 24.1 26.3 Products 84.0 105.2 (20.2) (18.2) 8.9 11.6 Total Americas Banking 311.7 344.7 (9.6) (8.0) 33.0 37.9 Retail Services 156.3 142.3 9.8 1.5 16.6 15.6 Products 148.1 113.2 30.8 22.8 15.7 12.4 Total Retail 304.4 255.5 19.1 10.9 32.3 28.0 Total net sales $ 943.9 $ 910.7 3.6 (0.1) 100.0 100.0 (1) The Company calculates constant currency by translating the prior-year period results at the current year exchange rate. Three months ended March 31, 2021 compared with three months ended March 31, 2020 Net sales increased $33.2, or 3.6 percent, including a net favorable currency impact of $34.0 primarily related to the euro, resulting in a constant currency decrease of $0.8. After excluding the favorable currency impact and $23.0 of net sales generated during the three months ended March 31, 2020 from divested businesses, net sales increased by $22.2. Segments Eurasia Banking net sales increased $17.3, including a net favorable currency impact of $20.9, related primarily to the euro, and divestitures of $19.7. Excluding the impact of currency and divestitures, net sales increase d $16.1 driven by increased product volume and related installation activity. Americas Banking net sales decreased $33.0, including a net unfavorable currency impact of $6.0, related primarily to the Brazilian real, and divestitures of $2.4. Excluding the impact of currency and divestitures, net sales decreased $24.6 due to a decline in product volume and related installation activity including non-recurring U.S. regional Windows 10 upgrades completed during the three months ended March 31, 2020 as well as lower contract revenue. Retail net sales increased $48.9, including a net favorable currency impact of $19.1 mostly related to the euro, and divestitures of $0.9. Excluding the impact of currency and divestitures, net sales increased $30.7 primarily from POS and SCO roll-outs in Europe with installations occurring during the three months ended March 31, 2021 as well as increased demand for professional services. 34 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Gross Profit The following table represents information regarding the Company's gross profit: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Gross profit - services $ 184.0 $ 150.3 22.4 Gross profit - products 89.2 76.5 16.6 Total gross profit $ 273.2 $ 226.8 20.5 Gross margin - services 32.1 % 25.6 % Gross margin - products 24.1 % 23.7 % Total gross margin 28.9 % 24.9 % Services gross margin increased 6.5 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2021, including non-routine charges of $0.4 in the three months ended March 31, 2021. For the three months ended March 31, 2020 the $19.4 of non-routine charges consisted primarily of a loss-making contract related to a discontinued offering, a spare parts inventory provision, and incremental payments to essential service technicians for their contributions during the COVID-19 pandemic. Excluding the impact of non-routine expenses, services gross margin increased 3.1 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2021, due in part to sustainable savings brought about by the Companys service modernization plan, divestitures of certain businesses, and lower professional services cost in the Americas Banking and Retail segments. Product gross margin increased 0.4 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2021, including non-routine charges of $(0.1) for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The decrease in non-routine charges from $7.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to one-time indemnification costs of a previously divested German business. Excluding non-routine charges, products gross margin decreased 1.8 percent in the three months ended March 31, 2021, due primarily to a unfavorable solution and geography mix, a reversal of interim cost benefits from the prior year, and higher logistics costs. Operating Expenses The following table represents information regarding the Company's operating expenses: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Selling and administrative expense $ 203.4 $ 222.1 (8.4) Research, development and engineering expense 34.1 32.5 4.9 (Gain) loss on sale of assets, net (0.5) (1.8) 72.2 Total operating expenses $ 237.0 $ 252.8 (6.3) Percent of net sales 25.1 % 27.8 % Selling and administrative expense decreased $18.7 in the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to March 31, 2020. Excluding the impact of non-routine, restructuring and transformation expenses incurred in both periods, selling and administrative expense was consistent with the prior year comparable period. Non-routine cost in selling and administrative expense was $20.5 in the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $2.2 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The non-routine expenses incurred in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020 related primarily to amortization of purchase accounting adjustments. Restructuring and DN Now transformation operating expenses were $22.3 in the three months ended March 31, 2021, a decrease of $16.9, compared to the prior-year period. 35 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Research, development and engineering expense in the three months ended March 31, 2021 increased $1.6. Excluding lower restructuring and transformation expense of $0.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, research, development and engineering expense increased due to the Company's growth initiatives. Operating expense as a percent of net sales in the three months ended March 31, 2021 decreased 2.7 percent to 25.1 percent compared to the same period in 2020 primarily from higher sales volume and successful implementation of the Company's DN Now initiatives. Operating Profit (Loss) The following table represents information regarding the Company's operating profit (loss): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Operating profit (loss) $ 36.2 $ (26.0) N/M Operating margin 3.8 % (2.9) % The operating profit increased by $62.2 in the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the prior-year period. The change is primarily due to higher product sales volume in the Eurasia Banking and Retail segments, improved gross margin and lower DN Now restructuring accruals. Other Income (Expense) The following table represents information regarding the Company's other income (expense), net: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Interest income $ 1.7 $ 1.1 54.5 Interest expense (48.7) (48.0) (1.5) Foreign exchange gain, net 5.7 0.4 N/M Miscellaneous, net (0.7) (0.9) 22.2 Other income (expense), net $ (42.0) $ (47.4) 11.4 N/M = Not Meaningful Interest income and expense in the three months ended March 31, 2021 have remained materially consistent with the three months ended March 31, 2020. Foreign exchange gain, net includes realized gains primarily related to the Brazilian real on non-designated foreign currency hedges in the first quarter of 2021. Net Loss The following table represents information regarding the Company's net loss: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Net loss $ (8.1) $ (93.4) 91.3 Percent of net sales (0.9) % (10.3) % Effective tax rate (17.4) % (27.2) % N/M = Not Meaningful Net loss decreased primarily due to the reasons described above as well as the $18.8 decrease in income tax expense that was $1.2 in the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $20.0 in the three months ended March 31, 2020, which included one-time charges related to the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) provisions of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act as well as a partial valuation allowance against interest expense carryforwards. 36 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Segment Operating Profit Summary The following tables represent information regarding the segment operating profit metrics, which exclude the impact of restructuring and non-routine charges, by reporting segment. Refer to note 18 of the condensed consolidated financial statements for further details of net sales and segment operating profit: Three Months Ended March 31, Eurasia Banking: 2021 2020 % Change Net sales $ 327.8 $ 310.5 5.6 Segment operating profit $ 25.0 $ 22.8 9.6 Segment operating profit margin 7.6 % 7.3 % Segment operating profit increased $2.2 in the three months ended March 31, 2021 largely due to the increase in net sales. Segment operating profit margin increased 0.3 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase in margin percentage is primarily due to lower operating expenses tied to DN Now initiatives. Three Months Ended March 31, Americas Banking: 2021 2020 % Change Net sales $ 311.7 $ 344.7 (9.6) Segment operating profit $ 40.2 $ 46.5 (13.5) Segment operating profit margin 12.9 % 13.5 % Segment operating profit decreased $6.3 in the three months ended March 31, 2021 primarily due to the decrease in net sales, partially offset by gross profit margin improvements. Segment operating profit margin decreased 0.6 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily as a result of the sales decline. Three Months Ended March 31, Retail: 2021 2020 % Change Net sales $ 304.4 $ 255.5 19.1 Segment operating profit $ 27.1 $ 11.1 144.1 Segment operating profit margin 8.9 % 4.3 % Segment operating profit increased $16.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 as a result of an increase in net sales as well as gross margin improvements related to increases in sales on higher margin POS and SCO products and professional services. Segment operating profit margin increased 4.6 percent for the three months ended March 31, 2021, due to gross margin improvements and cost savings related to DN Now initiatives. 37 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company's total cash and cash availability as of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 was as follows: March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Cash and cash equivalents $ 234.8 $ 324.5 Additional cash availability from: Uncommitted lines of credit 33.7 41.1 Revolving Facility 313.0 283.1 Short-term investments 21.3 37.2 Total cash and cash availability $ 602.8 $ 685.9 Capital resources are obtained from income retained in the business, borrowings under the Companys committed and uncommitted credit facilities and operating and capital leasing arrangements. Management expects that the Companys capital resources will be sufficient to finance planned working capital needs, R&D activities, investments in facilities or equipment, pension contributions and any repurchases of the Companys common shares for at least the next 12 months. The Company had no restricted cash at March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. The Company has made acquisitions in the past and may make acquisitions in the future. Part of the Companys strategy is to optimize the business portfolio through divestitures and complementary acquisitions. The Company intends to finance any future acquisitions with cash and short-term investments, cash provided from operations, borrowings under available credit facilities, proceeds from debt or equity offerings and/or the issuance of common shares. As of March 31, 2021, the Company had a revolving facility provided by the Credit Agreement of up to $369.0 (the Revolving Facility). The weighted-average interest rate on outstanding Revolving Facility borrowings as of both March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020 was 4.75 percent, which is variable based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). There was $313.0 available under the Revolving Facility as of March 31, 2021, after excluding $25.8 in letters of credit. The following table summarizes the results of the Company's condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2021: Summary of cash flows: March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Net cash provided (used) by operating activities $ (65.2) $ (78.2) Net cash provided (used) by investing activities 3.2 (53.4) Net cash provided (used) by financing activities (24.9) 314.0 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1.8) (15.6) Change in cash and cash equivalents $ (88.7) $ 166.8 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring and integration activities, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash used by operating activities was $65.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2021, a change of $13.0 from cash use of $78.2 for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Cash flows from operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 improved largely due to the $85.3 decrease in the net loss, partially offset by management of longer lead time requirements in the supply chain that increased inventory levels as well as a reduction in deferred revenue due to a high volume of customer prepayments at December 31, 2020. Refer to the Results of Operations discussed above for further discussion of the Company's reduction in net loss. 38 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) The net aggregate of trade receivables, inventories and accounts payable used $2.6 and provided $5.4 in operating cash flows during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Trade receivables cash use was $1.3 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to cash provided of $8.0 for the same period in the prior year primarily due to higher sales volume. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, inventory cash use increased $26.3 compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to increased purchases in 2021 both to meet increased customer demand and manage longer lead time requirements on raw materials. Accounts payable provided $64.1 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to a cash source of $47.3 for the same period in the prior year primarily related tighter controls on accounts payable . In the aggregate, the other combined certain assets and liabilities used $61.4 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $30.7 during the same period in 2020. The change is largely driven by an increase in cash interest payments, severance payouts and payments for capitalized cloud implementation costs during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $9.5 to $19.8 during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $26.5 during the same period in March 31, 2020, primarily due to a reduction in amortization related to acquired intangibles along with a reduction in capital spend. Investing Activities Cash flows from investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 were primarily impacted by a non-recurring net use of $38.5 of cash in the first quarter of 2020 that was included in the sale of Portavis Gmbh, a non-core consulting business in the Eurasia Banking segment. Additionally, the maturities and purchases of investments primarily relate to short-term investment activity in Brazil that resulted in an $16.0 increase in net cash proceeds due to an increase in investment activity. Financing Activities Net cash used by financing activities was $24.9 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $314.0 proceeds for the same period in 2020, which resulted in a decrease of $338.9. The change was primarily a result of the Company drawing down its entire availability under the Revolving Facility provided by the Company's credit agreement in the first quarter of 2020 in response to the uncertainty of the circumstances surrounding the COVID-19 pandemic, which has since been paid down. During the first quarter of 2021, the Company entered into an agreement whereby its ownership percentage in a certain consolidated but non-wholly owned subsidiary in Europe was reduced by means of capital contributions from noncontrolling shareholders totaling $12.7, which is considered cash proceeds from financing activities in the Contributions from noncontrolling interest holders caption. Refer to note 9 of the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's debt obligations. The Company paid cash for interest related to its debt of $59.9 and $34.0 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020, respectively. As defined by the Company's Credit Agreement, the ratio of net debt to trailing 12 months adjusted EBITDA was 4.1 times as of March 31, 2021. As of March 31, 2021, the Company was in compliance with the financial and other covenants in its debt agreements. Refer to note 14 of the condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the Company's hedging and derivative instruments. Contractual Obligations The Company enters into certain purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements for a total negotiated price. At March 31, 2021, the Company had minimal purchase commitments due within one year for materials through contract manufacturing agreements at negotiated prices. Except for the items noted above, all contractual cash obligations with initial and remaining terms in excess of one year and contingent liabilities remained generally unchanged at March 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020. 39 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees and sales of finance receivables. The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to comply with its contractual obligations, the suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables. The Company records these sales by removing finance receivables from the consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the consolidated statement of operations (refer to Note 5: Investments). Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information Diebold Nixdorf, Incorporated initially issued the 2024 Senior Notes in an offering exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act, which were later exchanged in an exchange offer registered under the Securities Act. The 2024 Senior Notes are and will be guaranteed by certain of Diebold Nixdorf, Incorporated's existing and future subsidiaries which are listed on Exhibit 22.1 to this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. The following presents the condensed consolidating financial information separately for Diebold Nixdorf, Incorporated (the Parent Company), the issuer of the guaranteed obligations, and the guarantor subsidiaries, as specified in the indenture governing the Company's obligations under the 2024 Senior Notes, on a combined basis. Each guarantor subsidiary is 100 percent owned by the Parent Company at the date of each balance sheet presented. The 2024 Senior Notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a joint and several basis by each guarantor subsidiary. The guarantees of the guarantor subsidiaries are subject to release in limited circumstances only upon the occurrence of certain conditions. Each entity in the consolidating financial information follows the same accounting policies as described in the condensed consolidated financial statements, except for the use by the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries of the equity method of accounting to reflect ownership interests in subsidiaries which are eliminated upon consolidation. The following tables present summarized financial information for the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances among the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries and (ii) equity in earnings from and investments in any non-guarantor subsidiary. Summarized Balance Sheets March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Total current assets $ 465.8 $ 449.9 Total non-current assets $ 1,942.1 $ 1,504.6 Total current liabilities $ 1,311.7 $ 1,252.5 Total non-current liabilities $ 2,034.9 $ 2,084.3 40 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Summarized Statements of Operations Three Months Ended Year Ended March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Net sales $ 257.8 $ 1,097.4 Cost of sales 178.5 784.3 Selling and administrative expense 99.0 446.4 Research, development and engineering expense 9.8 38.1 Impairment of assets 2.5 Gain on sale of assets, net (0.5) Interest income 0.2 1.1 Interest expense (33.4) (267.8) Foreign exchange gain (loss), net 4.3 (9.5) Miscellaneous, net 34.4 156.9 Loss from continuing operations before taxes $ (24.0) $ (292.7) Net (loss) income $ (20.7) $ (269.1) Net (loss) income attributable to Diebold Nixdorf, Incorporated $ (20.7) $ (269.1) As of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, the Parent Company and the guarantor subsidiaries on a combined basis had the following balances with non-guarantor subsidiaries: Summarized Balance Sheets March 31, 2021 December 31, 2020 Total current assets $ 176.9 $ 211.5 Total non-current assets $ 644.9 $ 867.5 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys condensed consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Such estimates include revenue recognition, the valuation of trade and financing receivables, inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, other long-lived assets, legal contingencies, guarantee obligations, and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, pension and post-retirement benefits and customer incentives, among others. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors. Management monitors the economic conditions and other factors and will adjust such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. There have been no material changes to the critical accounting policies and estimates described in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. 41 Table of Contents Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations as of March 31, 2021 DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (unaudited) (in millions, except per share amounts) Forward-Looking Statement Disclosure In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, statements that are not reported financial results or other historical information are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding the Company's expected future performance (including expected results of operations and financial guidance) future financial condition, operating results, strategy and plans. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of the words anticipates, expects, intends, plans, will, believes, estimates, potential, target, predict, project, seek, and variations thereof or similar expressions. These statements are used to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events and involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Although the Company believes that these forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions regarding, among other things, the economy, its knowledge of its business, and key performance indicators that impact the Company, these forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. Some of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: the ultimate impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; the Company's ability to continue to achieve benefits from its strategic initiatives such as DN Now and its digitally enabled hardware, services and software strategy; the success of the Companys new products, including its DN Series line and EASY family of retail checkout solutions; the impact of a cybersecurity breach or operational failure on the Company's business; the Company's ability to generate sufficient cash to service its debt or to comply with the covenants contained in the agreements governing its debt; the Companys ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; the Companys reliance on suppliers, subcontractors and availability of raw materials and other components; changes in the Company's intention to further repatriate cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments residing in international tax jurisdictions, which could negatively impact foreign and domestic taxes; the Company's success in divesting, reorganizing or exiting non-core and/or non-accretive businesses and its ability to successfully manage acquisitions, divestitures, and alliances; the outcome of the appraisal proceedings initiated in connection with the implementation of the Domination and Profit Loss Transfer Agreement with the former Diebold Nixdorf AG and the merger/squeeze-out; the impact of market and economic conditions, including the proliferation of cash and any deterioration or disruption in the financial and service markets, including the bankruptcies, restructurings or consolidations of financial institutions, which could reduce our customer base and/or adversely affect our customers' ability to make capital expenditures, as well as adversely impact the availability and cost of credit; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures and technological developments; changes in political, economic or other factors such as currency exchange rates, inflation rates (including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates), recessionary or expansive trends, taxes and regulations and laws affecting the worldwide business in each of the Company's operations; the Company's ability to maintain effective internal controls; unanticipated litigation, claims or assessments, as well as the outcome/impact of any current/pending litigation, claims or assessments; and the effect of changes in law and regulations or the manner of enforcement in the U.S. and internationally and the Companys ability to comply with government regulations. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. 42 Table of Contents DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES FORM 10-Q as of March 31, 2021 (in millions, except share and per share amounts)