Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Forward-Looking Statement Disclosure. Our guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither our independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that we release such data is to provide a basis for our management to discuss our business outlook with analysts and investors. We do not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by us will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, our guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data are forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it. 19 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us. Certain provisions of our charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice, may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of our board of directors and may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in our control or management. This could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Additionally, Ohio corporate law provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed control share acquisition, as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of our voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the interested shares, as defined in the Ohio Revised Code. The application of these provisions of the Ohio Revised Code also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. 20 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES The Company's corporate offices are located in North Canton, Ohio and Paderborn, Germany. The Company owns or leases and operates manufacturing facilities primarily related to our Systems LOB in Greensboro, North Carolina, Brazil, China, India and Germany. The Company leases a software development center in Canada related to our Software LOB. The following are our principal locations in which the Company owns or leases and operates selling, service and administrative offices in its three lines of business Services, Software and Systems: Americas EMEA AP Barbados Haiti Algeria Israel Russia Australia Belize Honduras Austria Italy Slovakia China Bolivia Jamaica Belgium Luxembourg South Africa Hong Kong Brazil Mexico Czech Republic Malta Spain India Canada Nicaragua Denmark Morocco Sweden Indonesia Chile Panama Finland Namibia Switzerland Malaysia Colombia Paraguay France Netherlands Turkey Philippines Costa Rica Peru Germany Nigeria Uganda Singapore Dominican Republic Uruguay Greece Norway Ukraine Taiwan Ecuador Venezuela Hungary Poland United Arab Emirates Thailand El Salvador United States Ireland Portugal United Kingdom Vietnam Guatemala The Company considers that its properties are generally in good condition, are well maintained, and are generally suitable and adequate to carry on the Company's business. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS (dollars in millions) At December 31, 2017 , the Company was a party to several lawsuits that were incurred in the normal course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate is considered material by management in relation to the Company's financial position or results of operations. In management's opinion, the Company's consolidated financial statements would not be materially affected by the outcome of those legal proceedings, commitments, or asserted claims. In addition to the routine legal proceedings noted above, the Company was a party to the legal proceedings described below at December 31, 2017 : Indirect Tax Contingencies The Company accrues non-income tax liabilities for indirect tax matters when management believes that a loss is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, while contingent gains are recognized only when realized. In the event any losses are sustained in excess of accruals, they are charged against income. In evaluating indirect tax matters, management takes into consideration factors such as historical experience with matters of similar nature, specific facts and circumstances, and the likelihood of prevailing. Management evaluates and updates accruals as matters progress over time. It is reasonably possible that some of the matters for which accruals have not been established could be decided unfavorably to the Company and could require recognizing future expenditures. Also, statutes of limitations could expire without the Company paying the taxes for matters for which accruals have been established, which could result in the recognition of future gains upon reversal of these accruals at that time. At December 31, 2017 , the Company was a party to several routine indirect tax claims from various taxing authorities globally that were incurred in the normal course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate is considered material by management in relation to the Companys financial position or results of operations. In managements opinion, the consolidated financial statements would not be materially affected by the outcome of these indirect tax claims and/or proceedings or asserted claims. 21 Table of Contents In addition to these routine indirect tax matters, the Company was a party to the proceedings described below: In August 2012, one of the Company's Brazil subsidiaries was notified of a tax assessment of approximately R$270 , including penalties and interest, regarding certain Brazil federal indirect taxes (Industrialized Products Tax, Import Tax, Programa de Integrao Social and Contribution to Social Security Financing) for 2008 and 2009. The assessment alleges improper importation of certain components into Brazil's free trade zone that would nullify certain indirect tax incentives. On September 10, 2012, the Company filed its administrative defenses with the tax authorities. In March 2017, the administrative proceedings concluded and the assessment was reduced approximately 95 percent to a total of R$17.3 including penalties and interest as of March 2017. The Company is pursuing its remedies in the judicial sphere and management continues to believe that it has valid legal positions. In addition, this matter could negatively impact Brazil federal indirect taxes in other years that remain open under statute. It is reasonably possible that the Company could be required to pay taxes, penalties and interest related to this matter, which could be material to the Company's consolidated financial statements. Additionally, the Company has challenged the customs rulings in Thailand seeking to retroactively collect customs duties on previous imports of ATMs. Management believes that the customs authoritys attempt to retroactively assess customs duties is in contravention of World Trade Organization agreements and, accordingly, challenged the rulings. In the third quarter of 2015, the Company received a prospective ruling from the U.S. Customs Border Protection which is consistent with the Company's interpretation of the treaty in question. In August 2017, the Supreme Court of Thailand ruled in the Company's favor, finding that Customs' attempt to collect duties for importation of ATMs is improper. In addition, in August 2016 and February 2017, the tax court of appeals rendered decisions in favor of the Company related to more than half of the assessments at issue. The surviving matters remain at various stages of the appeals process and the Company will use the Supreme Court's decision in support of its position in those matters. Management remains confident that the Company has a valid legal position in these appeals. Accordingly, the Company does not have any amount accrued for this contingency. At December 31, 2017 and 2016 , the Company had an accrual related to the Brazil indirect tax matter disclosed above of $4.9 and $7.3 , respectively. The reduction in the accrual is due to the expiration of the statute of limitations related to years subject to audit and foreign currency fluctuations in the Brazil real. A loss contingency is reasonably possible if it has a more than remote but less than probable chance of occurring. Although management believes the Company has valid defenses with respect to its indirect tax positions, it is reasonably possible that a loss could occur in excess of the estimated accrual. The Company estimated the aggregate risk at December 31, 2017 to be up to $144.7 for its material indirect tax matters, of which $25.7 and $27.0 , respectively, relates to the Brazil indirect tax matter and Thailand customs matter disclosed above. The aggregate risk related to indirect taxes is adjusted as the applicable statutes of limitations expire. ITEM 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 22 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The common shares of the Company are listed on the New York Stock Exchange with a symbol of DBD. The price ranges of common shares of the Company for the periods indicated below are as follows: 2017 2016 2015 High Low High Low High Low 1st Quarter $ 31.85 $ 24.90 $ 29.80 $ 22.84 $ 36.49 $ 30.63 2nd Quarter $ 30.70 $ 25.50 $ 28.81 $ 23.10 $ 38.94 $ 33.21 3rd Quarter $ 28.50 $ 17.95 $ 29.01 $ 23.95 $ 35.79 $ 29.16 4th Quarter $ 23.50 $ 16.00 $ 25.90 $ 21.05 $ 37.98 $ 29.60 Full Year $ 31.85 $ 16.00 $ 29.80 $ 21.05 $ 38.94 $ 29.16 There were 51,968 shareholders of the Company at December 31, 2017 , which includes an estimated number of shareholders who have shares held in their accounts by banks, brokers, and trustees for benefit plans and the agent for the dividend reinvestment plan. On the basis of amounts paid and declared quarterly, the annualized dividends per share were $0.40 , $0.96 and $1.15 in 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. Information concerning the Companys share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of 2017 : Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans (2) October 4,117 $ 23.21 2,426,177 November $ 2,426,177 December 8,084 $ 17.76 2,426,177 Total 12,201 $ 19.60 (1) All shares were surrendered or deemed surrendered to the Company in connection with the Companys stock-based compensation plans. (2) The total number of shares repurchased as part of the publicly announced share repurchase plan was 13,450,772 as of December 31, 2017 . The plan was approved by the Board of Directors in April 1997. The Company may purchase shares from time to time in open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions. The Company may make all or part of the purchases pursuant to accelerated share repurchases or Rule 10b5-1 plans. The plan has no expiration date. The following table provides a summary of Board of Director approvals to repurchase the Company's outstanding common shares: Total Number of Shares Approved for Repurchase 1997 2,000,000 2004 2,000,000 2005 6,000,000 2007 2,000,000 2011 1,876,949 2012 2,000,000 15,876,949 23 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below compares the cumulative five-year total return provided shareholders on Diebold Nixdorf, Inc.'s common shares relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the S&P Midcap 400 index and two customized peer groups consisting of twenty-three companies and sixteen companies, respectively, whose individual companies are listed in footnotes 1 and 2 below. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in our common shares, in each index and in each of the peer groups on December 31, 2012 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2017. The Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors annually reviews and approves the selection of Peer Group companies, adjusting the group from year to year based on changes in our industry and our Companys operations, the current Peer Group and the comparability of our Peer Group companies. In addition, for fiscal year 2017, the Compensation Committee, with the advice and support of Aon Hewitt as the Compensation Committee consultant, established a new Peer Group in order to support comparable companies more closely aligned with the Companys operations following the Acquisition. Specifically, the criteria used to select the Peer Group included comparable global companies that design manufacture and service products based on market capitalization and revenues, direct competitors, among others. (1) There are twenty-three companies included in the Company's 2016 peer group, which are: Actuant Corp, Allegion PLC, Benchmark Electronics Inc., Brady Corp., Brinks Co., Convergys Corp., DST Systems Inc., Fidelity National Information Services Inc., Fiserv Inc., Global Payments Inc., Harris Corp, International Game Technology PLC, Intuit Inc., Logitech International SA, Mettler-Toledo International Inc., NCR Corp., Netapp Inc., Pitney Bowes Inc., Sensata Technologies Holding NV, Timken Co., Unisys Corp., Western Union Co. and Woodward Inc. (2) The sixteen companies included in the Company's 2017 peer group are: Alliance Data Systems Corp., Benchmark Electronics Inc., Convergys Corp., DST Systems Inc., DXC Technology Co., Global Payments Inc., Harris Corp., Juniper Networks Inc., Logitech International SA, Motorola Solutions Inc., NCR Corp., Netapp Inc., Pitney Bowes Inc., Unisys Corp., Western Union Co. and Zebra Technologies Corp. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table should be read in conjunction with Part II - Item 7 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II -