Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation - Forward-Looking Statement Disclosure. The Company's guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines 16 Table of Contents of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither its independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Company's control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that the Company releases such data is to provide a basis for its management to discuss its business outlook with analysts and investors. The Company does not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by the Company will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, the Company's guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data are forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company. Certain provisions of the Company's charter documents, including provisions limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice, may make it more difficult for a third party to gain control of the Company's board of directors and may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in the Company's control or management. This could have an adverse effect on the market price of the Company's common shares. Additionally, Ohio corporate law provides that certain notice and informational filings and special shareholder meeting and voting procedures must be followed prior to consummation of a proposed control share acquisition, as defined in the Ohio Revised Code (ORC). Assuming compliance with the prescribed notice and information filings, a proposed control share acquisition may be made only if, at a special meeting of shareholders, the acquisition is approved by both a majority of its voting power represented at the meeting and a majority of the voting power remaining after excluding the combined voting power of the interested shares, as defined in the ORC. The application of these provisions of the ORC also could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. 17 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES The Company's corporate office is located in North Canton, Ohio. The Company owns or leases and operates manufacturing facilities in North Canton, Ohio, Brazil and Germany. The Company leases software development centers in Canada and Mexico. The following are the principal locations in which the Company owns or leases and operates selling, service and administrative offices in its three segments, Eurasia Banking, Americas Banking and Retail: Americas EMEA AP Brazil Honduras Algeria Italy Slovakia Australia Canada Mexico Austria Luxembourg South Africa China Chile Nicaragua Belgium Malta Spain Hong Kong Colombia Panama Czech Republic Morocco Sweden India Costa Rica Paraguay Denmark Netherlands Switzerland Indonesia Dominican Republic Peru Finland Nigeria Turkey Malaysia Ecuador Uruguay France Norway Ukraine Myanmar El Salvador United States Germany Poland United Arab Emirates Philippines Guatemala Greece Portugal United Kingdom Singapore Hungary Romania Taiwan Ireland Russia Thailand Vietnam The Company considers that its properties are generally in good condition, are well maintained, and are generally suitable and adequate to carry on the Company's business. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS (dollars in millions) At December 31, 2019 , the Company was a party to several lawsuits that were incurred in the normal course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate is considered material by management in relation to the Company's financial position or results of operations. In management's opinion, the Company's consolidated financial statements would not be materially affected by the outcome of those legal proceedings, commitments, or asserted claims. In addition to the routine legal proceedings noted above, the Company was a party to the legal proceedings described below at December 31, 2019 : Securities Class Action and Shareholder Litigation Demand In July and August 2019, shareholders filed putative class action lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and the Northern District of Ohio. The lawsuits collectively assert that the Company and three former officers made material misstatements regarding the Companys business and operations, causing the Companys common stock to be overvalued from February 14, 2017 to August 1, 2018. The lawsuits have been consolidated before a single judge in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York and lead plaintiffs appointed. The Company intends to vigorously defend itself in this matter and management remains confident that it has valid defenses to these claims. As with any pending litigation, the Company is unable to predict the final outcome of this matter. In January 2020, the Companys Board of Directors received a demand letter from alleged shareholders to investigate and pursue claims for breach of fiduciary duty against certain current and former directors and officers based on the Companys statements regarding its business and operations, which are substantially similar to those challenged in the federal securities litigation. The Board of Directors has not yet responded to the demand. Indirect Tax Contingencies The Company accrues non-income tax liabilities for indirect tax matters when management believes that a loss is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, while contingent gains are recognized only when realized. In the event any losses are sustained in excess of accruals, they are charged against income. In evaluating indirect tax matters, management takes into consideration factors such as historical experience with matters of similar nature, specific facts and circumstances, and the likelihood of prevailing. Management evaluates and updates accruals as matters progress over time. It is reasonably possible that some of the matters for which accruals have not been established could be decided unfavorably to the Company and could require recognizing future expenditures. Also, statutes of limitations could expire without the Company paying the taxes for matters for 18 Table of Contents which accruals have been established, which could result in the recognition of future gains upon reversal of these accruals at that time. At December 31, 2019 , the Company was a party to several routine indirect tax claims from various taxing authorities globally that were incurred in the normal course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate is considered material by management in relation to the Companys financial position or results of operations. In managements opinion, the consolidated financial statements would not be materially affected by the outcome of these indirect tax claims and/or proceedings or asserted claims. In addition to these routine indirect tax matters, the Company was a party to the proceedings described below: Diebold KGaA is a party to two separate appraisal proceedings (Spruchverfahren) in connection with the purchase of all shares in its former listed subsidiary, Diebold Nixdorf AG. Both proceedings are pending at the same Chamber for Commercial Matters (Kammer fur Hangelssachen) at the District Court (Landgericht) of Dortmund (Germany). The first appraisal proceeding relates to the DPLTA entered into by Diebold KGaA and former Diebold Nixdorf AG, which became effective on February 17, 2017. The DPLTA appraisal proceeding was filed by minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG challenging the adequacy of both the cash exit compensation of 55.02 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share (of which 6,900,000 shares were then outstanding) and the annual recurring compensation of 2.82 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share offered in connection with the DPLTA. The second appraisal proceeding relates to the cash merger squeeze-out of minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG in 2019. The squeeze-out appraisal proceeding was filed by minority shareholders of Diebold Nixdorf AG challenging the adequacy of the cash exit compensation of 54.80 per Diebold Nixdorf AG share (of which 1,400,000 shares were then outstanding) in connection with the merger squeeze-out. In both appraisal proceedings, a court ruling would apply to all Diebold Nixdorf AG shares outstanding at the time when the DPLTA or the merger squeeze-out, respectively, became effective. Any cash compensation received by former Diebold Nixdorf AG shareholders in connection with the merger squeeze-out would be netted with any higher cash compensation such shareholder may still claim in connection with the DPLTA appraisal proceeding. While the Company believes that the compensation offered in connection with the DPLTA and the merger squeeze-out was in both cases fair, it notes that German courts often adjudicate increases of the cash compensation to plaintiffs in varying amounts in connection with German appraisal proceedings. Therefore, the Company cannot rule out that the first instance court or an appellate court may increase the cash compensation also in these appraisal proceedings. The Company, however, is convinced that its defense in both appraisal proceedings which are still at preliminary stages is supported by strong sets of facts and the Company will continue to vigorously defend itself in these matters. The Company has challenged multiple customs rulings in Thailand seeking to retroactively collect customs duties on previous imports of ATMs. In August 2017, March 2019 and August 2019 the Supreme Court of Thailand ruled in the Company's favor in three of the matters, finding each time that Customs' attempt to collect duties for importation of ATMs is improper. The surviving matters remain at various stages of the appeals process and the Company will use the Supreme Court's decision in support of its position in those matters. Management remains confident that the Company has a valid legal position in these appeals. Accordingly, the Company does not have any amount accrued for this contingency. A loss contingency is reasonably possible if it has a more than remote but less than probable chance of occurring. Although management believes the Company has valid defenses with respect to its indirect tax positions, it is reasonably possible that a loss could occur in excess of the estimated accrual. The Company estimated the aggregate risk at December 31, 2019 to be up to $102.5 for its material indirect tax matters, of which $30.5 relates to the Thailand customs matter disclosed above. The aggregate risk related to indirect taxes is adjusted as the applicable statutes of limitations expire. ITEM 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 19 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The common shares of the Company are listed on the New York Stock Exchange with a symbol of DBD. There were 34,113 shareholders of the Company at December 31, 2019 , which includes an estimated number of shareholders who had shares held in their accounts by banks, brokers, and trustees for benefit plans and the agent for the dividend reinvestment plan. Information concerning the Companys share repurchases made during the fourth quarter of 2019 is as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans Maximum Number of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans (2) October 1,545 $ 7.37 2,426,177 November 16 $ 12.72 2,426,177 December 6,106 $ 10.83 2,426,177 Total 7,667 $ 10.14 (1) All shares were surrendered or deemed surrendered to the Company in connection with the Companys stock-based compensation plans. (2) The total number of shares repurchased as part of the publicly announced share repurchase plan was 13,450,772 as of December 31, 2019 . The plan was approved by the Board of Directors in April 1997. The Company may purchase shares from time to time in open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions. The Company may make all or part of the purchases pursuant to accelerated share repurchases or Rule 10b5-1 plans. The plan has no expiration date. The following table provides a summary of Board of Director approvals to repurchase the Company's outstanding common shares: Total Number of Shares Approved for Repurchase 1997 2,000,000 2004 2,000,000 2005 6,000,000 2007 2,000,000 2011 1,876,949 2012 2,000,000 15,876,949 20 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below compares the cumulative five-year total return provided shareholders on Diebold Nixdorf, Inc.'s common shares relative to the cumulative total returns of the S&P 500 index, the S&P Midcap 400 index and two customized peer groups, whose individual companies are listed in footnotes 1 and 2 below. An investment of $100 (with reinvestment of all dividends) is assumed to have been made in the Company's common shares, in each index and in each of the peer groups on December 31, 2014 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2019 . The Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors annually reviews and approves the selection of peer group companies, adjusting the group from time to time based on changes in the Company's industry and the Companys operations, the current peer group and the comparability of our peer group companies. (1) There are fourteen companies included in the Company's 2019 peer group, which are: Alliance Data Systems Corp., Benchmark Electronics Inc., Global Payments Inc., Juniper Networks Inc., Logitech International SA, Motorola Solutions Inc., NCR Corp., Netapp Inc., Pitney Bowes Inc., Sabre Corp., Total Systems Services, Unisys Corp., Western Union Co. and Zebra Technologies Corp. (2) The fifteen companies included in the Company's 2018 peer group are: Alliance Data Systems Corp., Benchmark Electronics Inc., Global Payments Inc., Harris Corp., Juniper Networks Inc., Logitech International SA, Motorola Solutions Inc., NCR Corp., Netapp Inc., Pitney Bowes Inc., Sabre Corp., Total Systems Services, Unisys Corp., Western Union Co. and Zebra Technologies Corp. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 6: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The following table should be read in conjunction with Part II - Item 7 - Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Part II -