Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationForward-Looking Statement Disclosure. The Companys guidance is not prepared with a view toward compliance with published guidelines of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and neither its independent registered public accounting firm nor any other independent or outside party compiles or examines the guidance and, accordingly, no such person expresses any opinion or any other form of assurance with respect thereto. Guidance is based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that, while presented with numerical specificity, are inherently subject to business, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Companys control and are based upon specific assumptions with respect to future business decisions, some of which will change. The principal reason that the Company releases such data is to provide a basis for its management to discuss its business outlook 22 Table of Contents with analysts and investors. The Company does not accept any responsibility for any projections or reports published by any such persons. Guidance is necessarily speculative in nature, and it can be expected that some or all of the assumptions of the guidance furnished by the Company will not materialize or will vary significantly from actual results. Accordingly, the Companys guidance is only an estimate of what management believes is realizable as of the date of release. Actual results will vary from the guidance. Investors should also recognize that the reliability of any forecasted financial data diminishes the farther in the future that the data are forecast. In light of the foregoing, investors are urged to put the guidance in context and not to place undue reliance on it. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 1C: CYBERSECURITY Diebold Nixdorf has processes, programs and measures in place designed to detect and help safeguard against cybersecurity threats and incidents. Although the Company implemented cybersecurity measures designed to detect and limit the risk of unauthorized access to our systems and acquisition of, loss of, modification of, use of, access to, or disclosure of our data, threat actors are using evolving, sophisticated, and ever-changing techniques to obtain unauthorized access to systems and data. While the Company works to maintain our information security program and risk management efforts, there can be no assurance that such actions will be sufficient to prevent cybersecurity incidents or mitigate all potential risks to our systems, networks, and data or those of our third-party providers. Diebold Nixdorf has established an information security program. This program and corresponding processes are designed to manage cybersecurity risks within our products, solutions, operations, and corporate infrastructure. The Company conducts regular security risk assessments, which include internal, external, and third-party risks, where appropriate, relying on internal and external resources. The results of these assessments help us to identify potential risks and to aid our cybersecurity risk management practices. The Company also maintains a third-party risk management process for service providers, suppliers, and vendors. The Company maintains policies and practices governing our third-party risks. The Company generally requires third parties to, among other things, maintain security controls to protect confidential information and data, and notify us of data breaches that may impact our systems or data. Diebold Nixdorf also uses third party security scoring data to assess potential risks associated with third-party controls. The Company also has an internal audit function, which provides assessments of controls related to security. In addition, employees receive annual training on security, privacy, and code of ethics. The oversight of our cybersecurity risk is integrated into an enterprise-wide risk management process.The Board of Directors has oversight of our strategic and business risk management and has delegated cybersecurity risk management oversight to the Nomination and Governance Committee (Governance Committee) of the Board. Our Governance Committee provides risk oversight and guidance to the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and the Board for information security policies and procedures. The Governance Committee provides guidance regarding strategy and management of the Companys information security program, including cybersecurity incidents, if any. The Governance Committee is also responsible for ensuring Board oversight of the Companys enterprise-wide risk management process, which includes information security. The Companys management team is responsible for the daily identification, assessment, and management of significant cybersecurity risks. Our management team monitors potential cybersecurity threats and aims to ensure that appropriate risk mitigation processes, cybersecurity policies, and procedures are established, maintained, and implemented. Our CISO is responsible for overseeing all information security programs that support key functions related to the operation and management of security controls designed to protect and defend against cybersecurity risks. Our CISO leads a team of dedicated cybersecurity professionals who build and implement specific technical and administrative security controls. Our CISO is part of the senior management team at the Company and regularly updates the Governance Committee on the state of Diebold Nixdorfs cybersecurity program, including security risks, incidents and mitigation strategies. The CISO and Governance Committee advise the Board of Directors on cyber security matters. In 2024, the Company did not identify any cybersecurity incidents that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect the Company, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial condition. The Company cannot eliminate all security risks within our organization, and the Company cannot guarantee that any undetected cybersecurity incidents have occurred. However, the Company tries to maintain reasonable processes in place to respond and recover from cybersecurity incidents. For additional information about these risks, see Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors" in this annual report on Form 10-K. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES As of December 31, 2024, the Company owns or leases and operates key manufacturing facilities and connected administrative spaces in North Canton, Ohio, Manaus, Brazil and Paderborn, Germany totaling approximately 2,000,000 square feet. The 23 Table of Contents Paderborn, Germany site is owned by the Company while the North Canton, Ohio and Manaus, Brazil sites are leased by the Company. Our properties are utilized by both our Banking and Retail segments. The Company considers that its properties are generally in good condition, well maintained, and are suitable and adequate to carry on the Companys business. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS The information required for this Item is incorporated herein by reference to Note 2 and Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements. ITEM 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The common stock of the Company is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol of DBD. HOLDERS There was one shareholder of record of the Company at December 31, 2024. The number of holders of record of the Company's common stock does not reflect the number of beneficial holders whose shares are held by banks, brokers, or other nominees. DIVIDEND POLICY It is uncertain whether or when the Company will pay cash dividends on our common stock. Our ability to pay cash dividends on our common stock is limited by restrictive covenants in the New Credit Agreement and the Indenture. Other debt instruments to which the Company may be a party may also limit our ability to pay dividends or for us to receive dividends from our operating companies, any of which may negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. The declaration and payment of future dividends, as well as the amount thereof, are subject to declaration by our Board of Directors. The amount and size of any future dividends will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital levels, cash requirements, future prospects and other factors. UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES On the Effective Date, in connection with the Debtors and the Dutch Scheme Companies' emergence from the Chapter 11 Cases and Dutch Scheme Proceedings and pursuant to the Plans, the Company issued 37,566,678 shares of common stock to the parties entitled thereto pursuant to the Plans and other orders in the Debtors Chapter 11 Cases. Such shares were issued in reliance on the exemption from registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 provided by section 1145 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES The Company did not repurchase any shares of common stock during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. 25 Table of Contents PERFORMANCE GRAPH The graph below compares the total return from August 11, 2023 to December 31, 2024 provided to shareholders on the Company's common stock relative to the total returns of the S&P 500 index, the S&P Midcap 400 index and a customized peer group, whose individual companies are listed in footnote 1 below. An investment of $100 is assumed to have been made in the Company's common stock, in each index and in each of the peer groups on August 11, 2023 and its relative performance is tracked through December 31, 2024. The People and Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors annually reviews and approves the selection of peer group companies, adjusting the group from time to time based on changes in the Company's industry and the Companys operations, the current peer group and the comparability of our peer group companies. 1.There are seventeen companies included in the Company's 2024 peer group, which are: ACI Worldwide, Inc., Benchmark Electronics Inc., Bread Financial Holding, Inc., Ciena Corporation, Euronet Worldwide Inc., Infinera Corporation, Juniper Networks, Logitech International S.A., NCR Corporation (NCR Atleos Corporation following separation), Pitney Bowes Inc., Sabre Corporation, Sanmina Corporation, Scan Source Inc., Shift4 Payments Inc., The Brink's Company, Unisys Corporation, and The Western Union Co. ITEM 6: [RESERVED] 26 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Managements discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes that appear within this annual report on Form 10-K. Voluntary Reorganization On June 1, 2023, the Debtors filed voluntary petitions in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court seeking relief under chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. The cases were jointly administered under the caption In re: Diebold Holding Company, LLC, et al. (Case No. 23-90602). Additionally, on June 1, 2023, Diebold Dutch filed a scheme of arrangement relating to the Dutch Scheme Parties and commenced the Dutch Scheme Proceedings under the Dutch Act in the Dutch Court. In addition, on June 12, 2023, Diebold Dutch filed a voluntary petition for relief under chapter 15 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court seeking recognition of the Dutch Scheme Proceedings as a foreign main proceedings and related relief. On July 13, 2023, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court entered the Confirmation Order confirming the U.S. Plan. On August 2, 2023, the Dutch Court entered the WHOA Sanction Order sanctioning the WHOA Plan in the Dutch Scheme Proceedings. On August 7, 2023, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court entered an order in the Chapter 15 Proceedings recognizing the WHOA Plan and the WHOA Sanction Order. On the Effective Date of August 11, 2023, the U.S. Plan and WHOA Plan became effective in accordance with their terms and the Debtors and the Dutch Scheme Parties emerged from the Chapter 11 Cases and the Dutch Scheme Proceedings. Following filing the notice of the Effective Date with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court, the Chapter 15 Proceedings were closed. For a discussion of the Restructuring Proceedings, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Business Drivers The Company's operating model is based upon product sales and service contract base. Business drivers of the Company's future net sales performance include, but are not limited to: demand for self-service and automation from Banking and Retail customers driven by the evolution of consumer behavior; demand for cost efficiencies and better usage of real estate for bank branches and retail stores as they transform their businesses to meet the needs of their customers while facing macro-economic challenges; demand for services on distributed IT assets such as ATMs, POS and SCO, including managed services and professional services; timing of product upgrades and/or replacement cycles for ATMs, POS and SCO; demand for software products and professional services; demand for security products and services for the financial, retail and commercial sectors; and demand for innovative technology in connection with the Company's strategy. 27 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS This Results of Operations focuses on discussion of 2024 Successor results and 2023 Successor and Predecessor results. For discussion of 2023 Successor and Predecessor results and 2022 Predecessor results, see Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2023 filed with the SEC on March 8, 2024. Net Sales The following table represents information regarding our net sales: Successor Predecessor Year ended December 31, 2024 Period from 08/12/2023 through 12/31/2023 Period from 01/01/2023 through 08/11/2023 Year ended December 31, 2022 Segments Banking Services $ 1,587.4 $ 626.9 $ 954.3 $ 1,548.1 Products 1,175.4 530.7 556.7 874.3 Total Banking 2,762.8 1,157.6 1,511.0 2,422.4 Retail Services 563.0 231.5 340.7 550.8 Products 425.3 239.5 280.2 487.5 Total Retail 988.3 471.0 620.9 1,038.3 Total Net Sales $ 3,751.1 $ 1,628.6 $ 2,131.9 $ 3,460.7 Segments Banking net sales in the 2024 Successor Period reflects higher ATM unit sales volume, favorable pricing, a PIS/COFIN tax recovery in Brazil and relatively flat service revenue versus prior periods. Retail net sales in the 2024 Successor Period were challenged by market headwinds due to retailer's spend environment. Gross Profit and Gross Margin The following table represents information regarding our gross profit and gross margin: Successor Predecessor Year ended December 31, 2024 Period from 08/12/2023 through 12/31/2023 Period from 01/01/2023 through 08/11/2023 Year ended December 31, 2022 Gross profit - services $ 533.5 $ 200.2 $ 372.6 $ 618.1 Gross profit - products 386.5 152.8 147.4 139.2 Total gross profit $ 920.0 $ 353.0 $ 520.0 $ 757.3 Gross margin - services 24.8 % 23.3 % 28.8 % 29.4 % Gross margin - products 24.1 % 19.8 % 17.6 % 10.2 % Total gross margin 24.5 % 21.7 % 24.4 % 21.9 % 2024 Successor Period product gross margin was favorable versus prior periods, primarily due to product sales unit volume at favorable pricing as well as favorable logistics costs and normalization of certain raw material costs, most notably semiconductor chips. Further enhancing product gross margin in the 2024 Successor Period was a PIS/COFIN tax recovery in Brazil which was included in net sales. 28 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) Service gross margin for the 2024 Successor Period experienced compression due to investments in resource and service infrastructure, in addition to absorption of charges related to the application of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic No. 852 Reorganizations (ASC 852), specifically depreciation and amortization of assets that were stepped up to fair value as a result of the Company's emergence from the Restructuring Proceedings. Operating Expenses The following table represents information regarding our operating expenses: Successor Predecessor Year ended December 31, 2024 Period from 08/12/2023 through 12/31/2023 Period from 01/01/2023 through 08/11/2023 Year ended December 31, 2022 Selling and administrative expense $ 643.6 $ 226.0 $ 458.7 $ 741.6 Research, development and engineering expense 93.6 34.4 62.3 120.7 Other operating expenses 0.7 0.2 4.5 106.7 Total operating expenses $ 737.9 $ 260.6 $ 525.5 $ 969.0 Selling and administrative expenses in all periods presented were driven by spending related to restructuring and transformational initiatives. Research and development costs reflect the Company's ongoing investment in hardware and software innovations and enhancements in service offerings. Other operating expenses related primarily to impairment of assets. Operating Profit (Loss) The following table represents information regarding our operating profit (loss): Successor Predecessor Year ended December 31, 2024 Period from 08/12/2023 through 12/31/2023 Period from 01/01/2023 through 08/11/2023 Year ended December 31, 2022 Operating profit (loss) $ 182.1 $ 92.4 $ (5.5) $ (211.7) Operating margin 4.9 % 5.7 % (0.3) % (6.1) % Other Income (Expense) The following table represents information regarding our other income (expense): Successor Predecessor Year ended December 31, 2024 Period from 08/12/2023 through 12/31/2023 Period from 01/01/2023 through 08/11/2023 Year ended December 31, 2022 Interest income $ 12.3 $ 6.3 $ 6.7 $ 10.0 Interest expense (155.3) (73.1) (173.6) (199.2) Foreign exchange gain (loss), net 13.8 (12.2) (1.2) (7.8) Reorganization items, net (17.1) 1,614.1 Miscellaneous, net 1.5 (0.8) 12.3 2.2 Loss on refinancing (7.1) (32.1) Total other income (expense), net $ (134.8) $ (96.9) $ 1,458.3 $ (226.9) Interest income remained materially consistent across all periods presented, while interest expense in the 2024 Successor Period was driven by the lower debt balances partially offset by increased variable interest rates. Refer to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail. Foreign exchange gain (loss), net includes realized gains and losses, with the most material fluctuations observed in the Brazilian Real, Colombian Peso, Euro, Canadian Dollar, Argentine Peso and Thai Baht exposures. Miscellaneous gain (loss), net was primarily driven by recognition of non-service pension credits, the most significant of which are in Germany. Reorganization items, net in the 2023 periods were directly related to the Company's filing and subsequent emergence from the Restructuring Proceedings. For further details please refer to Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements. 29 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) In the fourth quarter of 2024, the Successor company incurred $(7.1) of costs, primarily related to third-party costs, directly related to certain refinancing transactions that were expensed as incurred due to these refinancing transactions being accounted for primarily as a modification. For further details please refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. Net Income (Loss) The following table represents information regarding our income (loss), net of tax: Successor Predecessor Year ended December 31, 2024 Period from 08/12/2023 through 12/31/2023 Period from 01/01/2023 through 08/11/2023 Year ended December 31, 2022 Net income (loss) $ (14.5) $ 14.7 $ 1,361.9 $ (585.6) Effective tax rate 135.9 % N/M N/M (34.0) % Changes in net (loss) income were a result of the fluctuations outlined in the previous sections and impacted by income tax expense. The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2024 was driven primarily by geographic mix of earnings, non-deductible expenses, U.S. tax on foreign income, and withholding taxes. Refer to Note 6 of the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding tax expense. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 7.75% Senior Secured Notes due 2030 On December 18, 2024, the Company issued $950.0 aggregate principal amount of 7.75% Senior Secured Notes due 2030 (the Notes). The Company used the net proceeds of the Notes, together with borrowings under the New Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below) and cash on hand, to (i) repurchase all of the term loans under the Exit Facility (as defined below), (ii) repay all of the borrowings outstanding under the Prior Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below), and (iii) pay off all related premiums, fees and expenses. The Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of December 18, 2024 (the Indenture), among the Company, as issuer, the subsidiaries of the Company named therein as guarantors, and Regions Bank, as trustee and notes collateral agent. The Notes are the senior secured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed, on a senior secured basis, jointly and severally, by (i) as of the issue date of the Notes, each of the Companys subsidiaries that is a borrower under or guarantees the obligations under the New Revolving Credit Facility and (ii) following the issue date of the Notes, any of the Companys existing or future wholly owned domestic subsidiaries (other than certain excluded subsidiaries) that is a borrower under or guarantees the obligations under the New Revolving Credit Facility or incurs or guarantees certain capital markets indebtedness (the Guarantors). Additionally, the Notes and the related guarantees are secured by first-priority liens on substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets of the Company and the Guarantors, in each case subject to certain exclusions and permitted liens, which collateral also secures, on a pari passu basis, the New Revolving Credit Facility. The Notes bear interest at the rate of 7.75% per annum, which accrues from December 18, 2024 and is payable in arrears on March 31 and September 30 of each year, commencing on March 31, 2025. The Notes mature March 31, 2030 unless earlier redeemed or repurchased, and are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture. The Company may redeem some or all of the Notes at the redemption prices and on the terms specified in the Indenture. If the Company or any of its restricted subsidiaries sells certain of its assets or if the Company experiences specific kinds of changes of control and a ratings event, then the Company must offer to repurchase the Notes on the terms set forth in the Indenture. New Revolving Credit Facility On December 18, 2024, the Company entered into a new credit agreement (the New Credit Agreement), with certain financial institutions as lenders and Goldman Sachs Bank USA as administrative agent and collateral agent, providing for, among other things, a new $310.0 revolving credit facility maturing on December 18, 2029 (the New Revolving Credit Facility). The Company may repay the loans under the New Revolving Credit Facility at any time. Amounts borrowed and repaid under the New Revolving Credit Facility may be reborrowed. The obligations of the Company under the New Revolving Credit Facility are guaranteed by the Guarantors. The New Revolving Credit Facility and related guarantees are secured by first-priority liens on substantially all of the tangible and intangible assets of the Company and the Guarantors, in each case subject to certain exclusions and permitted liens, which collateral also secures, on a pari passu basis, the Notes. Loans under the New Revolving Credit Facility bear interest at an adjusted secured overnight financing rate plus a margin of 2.75% to 3.50% per annum or an adjusted base rate plus a margin of 1.75% to 2.50% per annum, in each case based on the consolidated first lien debt ratio of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries. 30 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) The New Revolving Credit Facility includes conditions precedent, representations and warranties, affirmative and negative covenants and events of default that are customary for financings of this type and size. Prior Credit Facilities On June 5, 2023, the Predecessor company entered into the credit agreement with certain financial institutions party thereto, as lenders (the Lenders) and GLAS USA LLC, as administrative agent, and GLAS Americas LLC, as collateral agent; which provided the $1,250.0 senior secured superpriority debtor-in-possession term loan credit facility (DIP Facility). The proceeds of the DIP Facility were used, among others, to: (i) repay in full the term loan obligations, including a make-whole premium, under the Predecessor company's superpriority secured term loan facility (Superpriority Facility) and (ii) repay in full the Predecessor company's asset-based revolving credit facility (ABL Facility) and cash collateralize letters of credit thereunder. The payment for the Superpriority Facility totaled $492.3 and was comprised of $401.3 of principal and interest, $20.0 of premium, and a make whole amount of $71.0. The payment for the ABL Facility, including an additional tranche of commitments consisting of a senior secured "last out" term loan facility, and the cash collateralization of letters of credit thereunder totaled $241.0 and was comprised of $211.2 of principal and interest and $29.8 of cash collateralized letters of credit. On the Effective Date of August 11, 2023, the DIP Facility was terminated and the loans outstanding under the DIP Facility were converted (the Conversion) into loans outstanding under a $1,250.0 senior secured credit facility (the Exit Facility), and the liens and guarantees, including all guarantees and liens granted by certain subsidiaries of the Company that are organized in the United States and in certain foreign jurisdictions, granted under the DIP Facility were automatically terminated and released. In connection with the Conversion, the entire $1,250.0 under the Exit Facility was deemed drawn on the Effective Date. On December 18, 2024, each of the outstanding term loans were repurchased with the net proceeds of the offering of the Notes. On February 13, 2024, the Company, as borrower, entered into a credit agreement (the Prior Credit Agreement) with certain financial institutions party thereto, as lenders, and PNC Bank, National Association, as administrative agent and collateral agent. The Prior Credit Agreement provided for a superior-priority senior secured revolving credit facility (the Prior Revolving Credit Facility) in an aggregate principal amount of $200.0, which included a $50.0 letter of credit sub-limit and a $20.0 swing loan sub-limit. In connection with the closing of the offering of the Notes and the entry into the New Credit Agreement, on December 18, 2024, the Company terminated the commitments under, and discharged and released all guarantees and liens existing in connection with the Prior Revolving Credit Facility. Share Repurchase Program On February 12, 2025, we announced that our Board had approved a $100 share repurchase program for the purchase of our common stock. We may utilize a number of different methods to effect the repurchases, including open market purchases, which may include, without limitation, round lot or block transactions, including through one or more accelerated stock repurchase plans or pursuant to the terms of one or more repurchase plans in accordance with Rule 10b5-1 or Rule 10b-18 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The specific timing, price, and size of purchases will depend on prevailing stock prices, general market and economic conditions, and other considerations. The program may be extended, suspended, or discontinued at any time without prior notice and does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of common stock. Liquidity Liquidity provided through the December 2024 debt refinancing is expected to sustain the Successor for at least the next twelve months. In addition to cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, the Company has available capacity of $310.0 related to the New Revolving Facility. The Company's total cash and cash availability as of December 31, 2024 and 2023 was as follows: 2024 2023 Cash and cash equivalents $ 296.2 $ 550.2 Additional cash availability from: Short-term investments 16.9 13.4 Total cash and cash availability $ 313.1 $ 563.6 31 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) The following table summarizes the results, excluding the impact of cash in businesses held for sale, of our consolidated statement of cash flows: Successor Predecessor Year ended December 31, 2024 Period from 08/12/2023 through 12/31/2023 Period from 01/01/2023 through 08/11/2023 Year ended December 31, 2022 Net cash flow provided (used) by: Operating activities $ 149.2 $ 158.0 $ (415.0) $ (387.9) Investing activities (45.5) (20.1) (16.0) (23.8) Financing activities (366.5) (4.0) 563.5 349.8 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (18.2) 1.1 2.9 (8.2) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (281.0) $ 135.0 $ 135.4 $ (70.1) Operating Activities. Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs and the timing of payments impact reported cash flows. Cash flows from operating activities during the 2024 Successor Period were driven by cash provided by Trade receivables, Income taxes, Accrued salaries, wages, and commissions, and Inventories, offset by uses for Accounts payable, Deferred revenue, and Prepaid expenses. The key drivers of these cash flows are timing of sales, collections, and vendor payments which can fluctuate significantly period to period. Investing Activities. Cash flows from investing activities during the 2024 Successor Period were driven by Capital expenditures of $17.4 and Capitalized software development of $23.0. The Company anticipates total capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs of approximately $66 in 2025 to be utilized for improvements to the Company's product line and investments in its infrastructure. The Company intends to finance these investments with funds provided by income generated by the business and, if necessary, borrowings under the New Revolving Credit Facility. Financing Activities. Cash flows from financing activities during the 2024 Successor Period primarily relate to the December 2024 debt refinancing. Refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further details. Contractual and Other Obligations.We have certain contractual obligations and commitments for general operating purposes. Refer to Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for scheduled maturities and interest rates of our long-term debt. The Company's leases support global staff via the use of office space, warehouses, vehicles and IT equipment and are discussed in additional detail within Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements. Changes in our business needs, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from our estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments or our ability to refinance outstanding debt on favorable terms or at all. The Companys material cash obligations include the following contractual and other obligations as of December 31, 2024: Payment due by period Total Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than 5 years Debt(1) $ 950.2 $ 0.2 $ $ $ 950.0 Interest on debt(2) 389.2 57.9 147.2 147.2 36.9 Minimum operating lease obligations 140.2 51.2 57.5 16.2 15.3 Minimum finance lease obligations 28.7 6.1 7.2 3.7 11.7 Total $ 1,508.3 $ 115.4 $ 211.9 $ 167.1 $ 1,013.9 (1)Amounts related to non-current finance lease liabilities are included in Minimum finance lease obligations. (2)Amounts represent estimated contractual interest payments on outstanding long-term debt. Rates in effect as of December 31, 2024 are used for variable rate debt. In addition to the general operating items above, the Company provides eligible employees with benefits pursuant to the pension and postretirement plans further described in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. Future contributions and disbursements related to the plans are dependent upon a number of factors, including the funded status of the plans. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. The Company enters into various arrangements not recognized in the consolidated balance sheets that have or could have an effect on its financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. The principal off-balance sheet arrangements that the Company enters into are guarantees and sales of finance 32 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) receivables. The Company provides its global operations guarantees and standby letters of credit through various financial institutions to suppliers, customers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers. If the Company is not able to comply with its contractual obligations, the suppliers, regulatory agencies and insurance providers may draw on the pertinent bank. The Company has sold finance receivables to financial institutions while continuing to service the receivables. The Company records these sales by removing finance receivables from the consolidated balance sheets and recording gains and losses in the consolidated statement of operations (refer to Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements). CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Managements discussion and analysis of the Companys financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Companys consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements of the Company are prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions about future events. These estimates and the underlying assumptions affect the amounts of assets and liabilities reported, disclosures about contingent assets and liabilities and reported amounts of revenues and expenses. Such estimates include revenue recognition, the valuation of trade and financing receivables, the valuation of inventories, goodwill, intangible assets, other long-lived assets, legal contingencies, guarantee obligations, and assumptions used in the calculation of income taxes, pension and post-retirement benefits, and customer incentives, among others. These estimates and assumptions are based on managements best estimates and judgment. Management evaluates its estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis using historical experience and other factors. Management monitors the economic conditions and other factors and will adjust such estimates and assumptions when facts and circumstances dictate. As future events and their effects cannot be determined with precision, actual results could differ significantly from these estimates. The Companys significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, which is contained in Item 8 of this annual report on Form 10-K. Management believes that, of its significant accounting policies, its policies concerning Fresh Start Accounting, revenue recognition, inventory reserves, goodwill, long-lived assets, taxes on income, contingencies and pensions and post-retirement benefits are the most critical because they are affected significantly by judgments, assumptions and estimates. Additional information regarding these policies is included below. Fresh Start Accounting. In accordance with ASC 852, we applied Fresh Start Accounting upon emergence from the Restructuring Proceedings, at which point we became a new entity for financial reporting. References to Predecessor relate to the consolidated statements of operations for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 and for the period from January 1, 2023 through and including the adjustments from the application of Fresh Start Accounting on August 11, 2023. References to Successor relate to the consolidated balance sheet of the reorganized Company as of December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023 and consolidated statements of operations for twelve months ended December 31, 2024 and the period from August 12, 2023 through December 31, 2023 and are not comparable to the consolidated financial statements of the Predecessor as indicated by the black line division in the financial statements and footnote tables, which emphasizes the lack of comparability between amounts presented. The Companys financial results for future periods following the application of Fresh Start Accounting will be different from historical trends and the differences may be material. Revenue Recognition. The following is a description of principal solutions offered within the Company's two main customer segments that generate the Company's revenue. Banking Products. Products for banking customers consist of cash recyclers and dispensers, intelligent deposit terminals, teller automation tools and kiosk technologies, as well as physical security solutions. The Company provides its banking customers front-end software applications for consumer connection points and back-end platforms that manage channel transactions, operations and integration and facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics. These offerings include highly configurable, API-enabled software that automates legacy banking transactions across channels. Services. The Company provides its banking customers product-related services which include proactive monitoring, rapid resolution of incidents through remote service capabilities or an on-site visit and professional services. First- and second-line maintenance, preventive maintenance and on-demand services keep the distributed assets of the Company's customers up and running through a standardized incident management process. Managed services and outsourcing consist of end-to-end business processes, solution management, upgrades and transaction processing. The Company also provides a full array of cash management services, which optimizes the availability and cost of physical currency across the enterprise through efficient forecasting, inventory and replenishment processes. 33 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) Retail Products. The retail product portfolio includes modular, integrated and mobile POS and SCO terminals that meet evolving automation and omnichannel requirements of consumers. Supplementing the POS system is a broad range of peripherals, including printers, scales and mobile scanners, as well as the cash management portfolio which offers a wide range of banknote and coin processing systems. Also in the portfolio, the Company provides SCO terminals and ordering kiosks which facilitate an efficient and user-friendly purchasing experience. The Companys hybrid product line can alternate from an attended operator to self-checkout with the press of a button as traffic conditions warrant throughout the business day. The Company's platform software is installed within retail data centers to facilitate omnichannel transactions, endpoint monitoring, remote asset management, customer marketing, merchandise management and analytics. Services. The Company provides its retail customers product-related services which include on-demand services and professional services. Diebold Nixdorf AllConnect Services for retailers include maintenance and availability services to continuously improve retail self-service fleet availability and performance. These include: total implementation services to support both current and new store concepts; managed mobility services to centralize asset management and ensure effective, tailored mobile capability; monitoring and advanced analytics providing operational insights to support new growth opportunities; and store life-cycle management to proactively monitor store IT endpoints and enable improved management of internal and external suppliers and delivery organizations. Revenue is measured based on consideration specified in a contract with a customer and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The amount of consideration can vary depending on discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, price concessions, incentives, performance bonuses, penalties, or other similar items contained in the contract with the customer of which generally these variable consideration components represents minimal amount of net sales. The Company recognizes revenue when it satisfies a performance obligation by transferring control over a product or service to a customer. The Company's payment terms vary depending on the individual contracts and are generally fixed fee. The Company recognizes advance payments and billings in excess of revenue recognized as deferred revenue. In certain contracts where services are provided prior to billing, the Company recognizes a contract asset within trade receivables. Taxes assessed by a governmental authority that are both imposed on and concurrent with a specific revenue-producing transaction and that are collected by the Company from a customer are excluded from revenue. The Company recognizes shipping and handling fees billed when products are shipped or delivered to a customer and includes such amounts in net sales. Although infrequent, shipping and handling associated with outbound freight after control over a product has transferred to a customer is not a separate performance obligation, rather is accounted for as a fulfillment cost. Third-party freight payments are recorded in cost of sales. The Company includes a warranty in connection with certain contracts with customers, which are not considered to be separate performance obligations. The Company provides its customers a manufacturers warranty and records, at the time of the sale, a corresponding estimated liability for potential warranty costs. For additional information on product warranty refer to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. The Company also has extended warranty and service contracts available for its customers, which are recognized as separate performance obligations. Revenue is recognized on these contracts ratably as the Company has a stand-ready obligation to provide services when or as needed by the customer. This input method is the most accurate assessment of progress toward completion the Company can apply. Product revenue is recognized at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the product, which could be upon delivery or upon completion of installation services, depending on contract terms. The Companys software licenses are functional in nature (the IP has significant stand-alone functionality); as such, the revenue recognition of distinct software license sales is at the point in time that the customer obtains control of the rights granted by the license. Professional services integrate the commercial solution with the customer's existing infrastructure and helps define the optimal user experience, improve business processes, refine existing staffing models and deploy technology to meet branch and store automation objectives. Revenue from professional services is recognized over time, because the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Companys performance as the services are performed or when the Companys performance creates an asset with no alternative use and the Company has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date. Generally, revenue will be recognized using an input measure, typically costs incurred. The typical contract length for service is generally one year and is billed and paid in advance except for installations, among others. 34 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) Services may be sold separately or in bundled packages. For bundled packages, the Company accounts for individual services separately if they are distinct. A distinct service is separately identifiable from other items in the bundled package if a customer can benefit from it on its own or with other resources that are readily available to the customer. The consideration (including any discounts) is allocated between separate services or distinct obligations in a bundle based on their stand-alone selling prices. The stand-alone selling prices are determined based on the prices at which the Company separately sells the products or services. For items that are not sold separately, the Company estimates stand-alone selling prices using the cost plus expected margin approach. Revenue on service contracts is recognized ratably over time, generally using an input measure, as the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the Companys performance as the services are performed. In some circumstances, when global service supply chain services are not included in a term contract and rather billed as they occur, revenue on these billed work services are recognized as transfer of control occurs. Inventory Valuation. At each reporting period, the Company identifies and writes down its excess and obsolete inventories to net realizable value based on usage forecasts, order volume and inventory aging. With the development of new products, the Company also rationalizes its product offerings and will write-down discontinued product to the lower of cost or net realizable value. Goodwill. Goodwill in the Successor Period is the excess of the reorganization value of assets over the fair value of identifiable tangible and intangible assets (refer to Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). Goodwill in the Predecessor Period is the cost in excess of the net assets of acquired businesses (refer to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company tests all existing goodwill at least annually as of October 1 for impairment on a reporting unit basis using either a quantitative or qualitative approach. In years in which a qualitative analysis is performed by assessing recent trends and factors, including projected market outlook and growth rates, forecasted and actual sales and operating profit margins, discount rates, industry data, and other relevant qualitative factors. These trends and factors are compared to, and based on, the assumptions used in the most recent quantitative analysis performed for each reporting unit. In years in which quantitative analyses are performed, the fair value of the reporting units is determined based upon a combination of the income and market approaches, which are standard valuation methodologies. The income approach uses discounted estimated future cash flows, whereas the market approach or guideline public company method utilizes market data of similar publicly traded companies. The fair value of the reporting unit is defined as the price that would be received in a sale of the net assets in an orderly transaction between market participants at the assessment date. The Company compares the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value and would recognize an impairment charge if the amount carrying amount exceeds the reporting units fair value. The techniques used in the Company's quantitative assessments incorporate a number of assumptions that the Company believes to be reasonable and to reflect market conditions at the assessment date. Assumptions in estimating future cash flows are subject to a high degree of judgment. The Company makes all efforts to forecast future cash flows as accurately as possible with the information available at the time the forecast is made. To this end, the Company evaluates the appropriateness of its assumptions as well as its overall forecasts by comparing projected results of upcoming years with actual results of preceding years and validating that differences therein are reasonable. Key assumptions, which typically are Level 3 inputs, include discount rates, terminal growth rates, market multiple data from selected guideline public companies, management's internal forecasts which include numerous assumptions such as projected net sales, gross profit, sales mix, operating and capital expenditures, among others. A number of benchmarks from independent industry and other economic publications were also used. Changes in assumptions and estimates after the assessment date may lead to an outcome where impairment charges would be required in future periods. Specifically, actual results may vary from the Companys forecasts and such variations may be material and unfavorable, thereby triggering the need for future impairment tests where the conclusions may differ in reflection of prevailing market conditions. The Company tests for interim impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the carrying value of a reporting unit below its reported amount. In evaluating whether it is more likely than not the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the Company considers the following events and circumstances, among others, if applicable: (a) macroeconomic conditions such as general economic conditions, limitations on accessing capital or other developments in equity and credit markets; (b) industry and market considerations such as competition, multiples or metrics and changes in the market for the Company's products and services or regulatory and political environments; (c) cost factors such as raw materials, labor or other costs; (d) overall financial performance such as cash flows, actual and planned revenue and earnings compared with actual and projected results of relevant prior periods; (e) other relevant events such as changes in key personnel, strategy or customers; (f) changes in the composition of a reporting unit's assets or expected sales of all or a portion of a reporting unit; and (g) any sustained decrease in share price. If the Company's qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a quantitative impairment test is used to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of any impairment loss to be recognized. 35 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) In the 2024 Successor Period, the annual goodwill impairment test was performed using a quantitative analysis. In the 2023 Successor Period, annual impairment test was performed using a qualitative analysis. During the Predecessor Periods, annual goodwill impairment tests were performed using a quantitative analysis in 2022. As a result of a triggering event identified as of March 31, 2023, the Company performed an interim quantitative goodwill impairment test in the Predecessor Period. No impairment resulted from the quantitative interim goodwill impairment test. As a result of the reporting unit change in the second quarter of 2022, the Company performed an interim quantitative goodwill impairment test. No impairment resulted from the quantitative interim goodwill impairment test under either the legacy or new reporting unit structure. Taxes on Income. Deferred taxes are provided on the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax assets are recognized for deductible temporary differences, operating loss carry-forwards and tax credits. Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences and undistributed earnings in certain jurisdictions. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, based upon the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Determination of a valuation allowance involves estimates regarding the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, expected future taxable income and the impact of tax planning strategies. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted for the effects of changes in tax laws and rates on the date of enactment. The Company operates in numerous taxing jurisdictions and is subject to examination by various federal, state and foreign jurisdictions for various tax periods. Additionally, the Company has retained tax liabilities and the rights to tax refunds in connection with various acquisitions and divestitures of businesses. The Companys income tax positions are based on research and interpretations of the income tax laws and rulings in each of the jurisdictions in which the Company does business. Due to the subjectivity of interpretations of laws and rulings in each jurisdiction, the differences and interplay in tax laws between those jurisdictions, as well as the inherent uncertainty in estimating the final resolution of complex tax audit matters, the Companys estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. The Company assesses its position with regard to tax exposures and records liabilities for these uncertain tax positions and any related interest and penalties, when the tax benefit is not more likely than not realizable. The Company has recorded an accrual that reflects the recognition and measurement process for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken on a tax return. Additional future income tax expense or benefit may be recognized once the positions are effectively settled. Contingencies. Liabilities for loss contingencies arising from claims, assessments, litigation, fines, and penalties and other sources are recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Legal costs incurred in connection with loss contingencies are expensed as incurred. There is no liability recorded for matters in which the liability is not probable and reasonably estimable. Attorneys in the Company's legal department monitor and manage all claims filed against the Company and review all pending investigations. Generally, the estimate of probable loss related to these matters is developed in consultation with internal and outside legal counsel representing the Company. These estimates are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. The Company attempts to resolve these matters through settlements, mediation and arbitration proceedings when possible. If the actual settlement costs, final judgments, or fines, after appeals, differ from the estimates, the future results may be materially impacted. Adjustments to the initial estimates are recorded when a change in the estimate is identified. Pensions and Other Post-retirement Benefits. Annual net periodic expense and benefit liabilities under the Companys defined benefit plans are determined on an actuarial basis. Assumptions used in the actuarial calculations have a significant impact on plan obligations and expense. The Company periodically reviews the actual experience compared with the more significant assumptions used and make adjustments to the assumptions, if warranted. The discount rate is determined by analyzing the average return of high-quality (i.e., AA-rated), fixed-income investments and the year-over-year comparison of certain widely used benchmark indices as of the measurement date. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is determined using the plans current asset allocation and their expected long term rates of return. The rate of compensation increase assumptions reflects the Companys long-term actual experience and future and near-term outlook. Pension benefits are funded through deposits with trustees. Other post-retirement benefits are not funded and the Companys policy is to pay these benefits as they become due. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING GUIDANCE Refer to Note 1 of the consolidated financial statements for information on recently issued accounting guidance. 36 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT DISCLOSURE This annual report on Form 10-K may contain statements that are not historical information and are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements give current expectations or forecasts of future events and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, projections, statements regarding the Company's expected future performance (including expected results of operations), future financial condition, anticipated operating results, strategy plans, future liquidity and financial position. Statements can generally be identified as forward looking because they include words such as "believes," "anticipates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "will," "estimates," "potential," "target," "predict," "project," "seek," and variations thereof or "could," "should" or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe the Company's future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements, which reflect the current views of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to assumptions, risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Although the Company believes that these forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions regarding, among other things, the economy, its knowledge of its business, and key performance indicators that impact the Company, these forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. The factors that may affect the Company's results include, among others: the significant variance of our actual financial results from the projections that were filed with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court and Dutch Court; the success of the Company's new products and services, including its DN Series line and EASY family of retail checkout solutions, and electronic vehicle charging service business; the Companys ability to successfully execute on its digitally enabled hardware, services and software strategy; the Companys ability to generate sufficient cash flows to refinance its indebtedness, fund its operations and make adequate capital investments; the ultimate benefits of the Companys continuous improvement programs and other cost savings plans; risks related to our international operations, including geopolitical instability and wars; developments from recent and potential changes in U.S. trade policies and trade policies of other countries; the impact of the proliferation of payment options other than cash, which could result in a reduced need for cash in the marketplace and a resulting decline in the usage of ATMs; the impact of general economic conditions, cyclicality and uncertainty; the impact of increased energy, raw material and labor costs; the impact of competitive pressures, including pricing pressures and the introduction of new products and services by our competitors; the impact of a cybersecurity incident or operational failure on the Company's business; challenges associated with the use of AI in the Companys business; the Company's reliance on suppliers, subcontractors and availability of raw materials and other components; the Companys reliance on third parties, including to provide security systems and systems integration as well as outsourced business processes and other financial services; the Companys ability to attract, retain and motivate key employees; the impact of additional tax expense or exposures; the potential for additional pension liability or expense associated with low investment performance by the Companys pension plan assets; the Company's success in executing potential acquisitions, investments or partnerships and divestitures; the ultimate outcome of the appraisal proceedings initiated in connection with the implementation of the Domination and Profit Loss Transfer Agreement with the former Diebold Nixdorf AG (which was dismissed in the Company's favor at the lower court level in May 2022) and the merger/squeeze-out (which was dismissed in the Company's favor at the lower court level in 2023); the impact of market and economic conditions, including the bankruptcies, restructuring or consolidations of financial institutions, which could reduce the Company's customer base and/or adversely affect its customers' ability to make capital expenditures, as well as adversely impact the availability and cost of credit; changes in political, economic or other factors such as currency exchange rates, inflation rates (including the impact of possible currency devaluations in countries experiencing high inflation rates), recessionary or expansive trends, disruption in energy supply, taxes and regulations and laws affecting the worldwide business in each of the Company's operations; the Company's ability to maintain effective internal controls; the impact of regulatory and financial risks related to climate change; the impact of an adverse determination that that the Company's services, products or manufacturing processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, or the Companys failure to enforce its intellectual property rights; the Companys exposure to liabilities under the FCPA or other worldwide anti-bribery laws; 37 Table of Contents MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS as of DECEMBER 31, 2024 (unaudited) DIEBOLD NIXDORF, INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES (in millions, except per share amounts) the effect of changes in law and regulations or the manner of enforcement in the United States and internationally and the Company's ability to comply with applicable laws and regulations; and other factors included in the Company's filings with the SEC. Except to the extent required by applicable law or regulation, the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect future events or circumstances or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. 38 Table of Contents