Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or the future financial performance of Digimarc, which involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Please see the discussion regarding forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the disclosures made in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014 filed on February 20, 2015 (our 2014 Annual Report), and other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to Digimarc, we, our and us refer to Digimarc Corporation. All dollar amounts are in thousands except per share amounts or unless otherwise noted. Percentages within the following tables may not foot due to rounding. Digimarc Discover, Digimarc Barcode and Digimarc Guardian are registered trademarks of Digimarc Corporation. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q also includes trademarks and trade names owned by other parties, and all other such trademarks and trade names mentioned in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are the property of their respective owners. Overview Digimarc Corporation enables governments and enterprises around the world to give digital identities to media and objects that computers can sense and recognize and to which they can react. We have developed an intuitive computing platform that is intended to optimize the identification of consumer brand impressions, facilitating modern mobile-centric shopping. The platform includes means to infuse persistent digital information, Digimarc IDs, perceptible only to computers and digital devices, into all forms of media content, including consumer products packaging. Digimarc IDs for packaging, often referred to as Digimarc Barcodes, facilitate remarkably faster scanning of items at retail checkout as well as improved interaction with consumers. The unique digital identifier placed in media generally persists with it regardless of the distribution path and whether it is copied, manipulated or converted to a different format, and does not affect the quality of the content or the enjoyment or other traditional uses of it. Our technology permits computers and digital devices to quickly and reliably identify relevant data from vast amounts of media content. Our technologies, and those of our licensees, span numerous applications across a wide range of media content, enabling our customers and those of our partners to: Improve the speed of retail checkout; Provide simple and intuitive mobile customer engagement experiences in stores; Quickly and reliably identify and effectively manage music, movies, television programming, digital images, e-books, documents and other printed materials, especially in light of non-linear distribution over the Internet; Deter counterfeiting of money, media and goods, and piracy of e-books, movies and music; Support new digital media distribution models and methods to monetize media content; Leverage the power of ubiquitous computing to instantly link consumers to a wealth of information and/or interactive experiences related to the media and objects they encounter each day; Provide consumers with more choice and access to media content when, where and how they want it; Enhance imagery and video by associating metadata or authenticating media content for government and commercial uses; and Better secure identity documents to enhance national security and combat identity theft and fraud. At the core of our intellectual property is a signal processing innovation known as digital watermarking, which allows imperceptible digital information to be embedded in all forms of digitally designed, produced or distributed media content and some physical objects, including photographs, movies, music, television, personal identification documents, financial instruments, industrial parts and product packages. The digital information can be detected and read by a wide range of computers, mobile phones and other digital devices. 16 Table of Contents Our technology allows our customers to provide persistent digital identities for any media content that is digitally processed at some point during its lifecycle. The technology can be applied to printed materials, video, audio, and images. The inclusion of these digital signals enables a wide range of improvements in security and media management, and new business models for distribution and consumption of media content. Over the years our technology and intellectual property portfolios have grown to encompass many related technologies. We provide solutions directly and through our licensees. Our proprietary technology has proven to be a powerful element of document security, giving rise to our long-term relationship with a consortium of central banks (Central Banks), and many leading companies in the information technology industry. We and our licensees have successfully propagated the use of our technology in music, movies, television broadcasts, images and printed materials. Digimarc IDs have been used in these applications to improve media rights and asset management, reduce piracy and counterfeiting losses, improve marketing programs, permit more efficient and effective distribution of valuable media content and enhance consumer entertainment and commercial experiences. Digimarc IDs are easily embedded into all forms of media and are imperceptible to human senses, but quickly detected by computers, networks or other digital devices like smartphones. Unlike traditional barcodes and tags, our solution does not require publishers to give up valuable space in magazines and newspapers; nor does it impact the overall layout or aesthetics of the publication. Our Digimarc Discover platform delivers a range of rich media experiences to its readers on their smartphones across multiple media including print, audio, video and packaging. Unique to the Digimarc Discover platform is its ability to use various content identification technologies as needed, including our patented technology. We introduced Digimarc Barcodes as a feature of Digimarc Discover in 2014 for use in consumer product packaging. Digimarc Barcodes contain the same information found in traditional universal product codes (UPC). The UPC information is invisibly repeated multiple times over the entire package surface. We partnered with Datalogic, a global leader in Automatic Data Capture and Industrial Automation markets and producer of barcode readers, in bringing the Digimarc Barcode to the market. The first retail scanner enabled was Datalogics Magellan TM 9800i multi-plane imaging scanner. Digimarc Barcodes can also connect mobile-enabled consumers directly from packaging to engaging mobile experiences such as additional product information, special offers, recommendations, reviews, social networks and more. Our patent portfolio contains a number of innovations in digital watermarking, pattern recognition (sometimes referred to as fingerprinting), digital rights management and related fields. To protect our significant efforts in creating our technology, we have implemented an extensive intellectual property protection program that relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and nondisclosure agreements and other contracts. As a result, we believe we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields, with more than 1,200 U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications as of March 31, 2015. We continue to develop and broaden our portfolio of patented technology in the fields of media identification and management technology and related applications and systems. We devote significant resources to developing and protecting our inventions and continuously seek to identify and evaluate potential licensees for our patents. The patents in our portfolio have a life of approximately 20 years from the effective filing date, and up to 17 years after the patent has been granted. As part of our intellectual property marketing and patent monetization efforts, our key objectives in building relationships with potential customers and partners are to: make progress toward the realization of our vision to enrich everyday living via pervasive, intuitive computing; expand the scope of our license program; effectively monetize our patent assets; encourage large scale adoption of our technologies by industry leaders; improve our financial performance; increase the scale and rate of growth of our products and services business; and lay a foundation for continuing innovation. For a discussion of activities and costs related to our research and development, read the section titled Results of Operations Summary Research, development and engineering. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Detailed information on our critical accounting policies and estimates are set forth in our 2014 Annual Report in Part II, Item 7 thereof (Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), under the caption Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, which is incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 17 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents statements of operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to the three-month period relate to the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 and all changes discussed with respect to such period reflect changes compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2014. Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Revenue: Service 58 % 41 % Subscription 29 20 License 13 39 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Service 26 20 Subscription 13 9 License 1 1 Total cost of revenue 40 30 Gross profit 60 70 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 35 26 Research, development and engineering 51 49 General and administrative 37 34 Intellectual property 6 7 Total operating expenses 129 116 Operating loss (70 ) (46 ) Other income, net Loss before income taxes (69 ) (46 ) Benefit for income taxes 18 Net loss (69 )% (28 )% Summary Total revenue for the three-months ended March 31, 2015 decreased 17% to $6.0 million compared to the same period in 2014 due to lower license revenue reflecting the end of the quarterly license fee payments from The Nieslen Company (Nielsen) in the first quarter of 2014 and the end of the quarterly royalty payments from Verance Corporation (Verance) in the fourth quarter of 2014. The decline in license revenue was partially offset by higher service and subscription revenue. Total operating expenses for the three-months ended March 31, 2015 decreased 8% to $7.7 million compared to the same period in 2014 reflecting lower investment in research and development, partially offset by higher investment in sales and marketing as we continue the transition from research and product development to market development and delivery of Digimarc Discover and Barcode. Legal and third-party consulting costs were also down for the three-months ended March 31, 2015. 18 Table of Contents Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Revenue: Service $ 3,501 $ 2,988 $ 513 17 % Subscription 1,716 1,412 304 22 % License 772 2,805 (2,033 ) (72 )% Total $ 5,989 $ 7,205 $ (1,216 ) (17 )% Revenue (as % of total revenue): Service 58 % 41 % Subscription 29 % 20 % License 13 % 39 % Total 100 % 100 % Service. Service revenue consists primarily of software development and consulting services. The majority of service revenue arrangements are structured as time and materials consulting agreements. Most of our service revenue is derived from contracts with the Central Banks and government agency contractors. The agreements range from several months to several years in length, and our longer term contracts are subject to work plans that are reviewed and agreed upon at least annually. These contracts generally provide for billing hours worked at predetermined rates and, to a lesser extent, reimbursement for third party costs and services. Increases or decreases in the services provided under these contracts are generally subject to both volume and price changes. The volume of work is generally negotiated at least annually and can be modified as the customers needs change. We also have provisions in our longer term contracts that allow for specific hourly rate price increases on an annual basis to account for cost of living variables. Contracts with government agency contractors are generally shorter term in nature, less linear in billings and less predictable than our longer term contracts because the contracts with government agency contractors are subject to government budgets and funding. The increase in service revenue for the three-month period was primarily due to timing of program work and higher billable rates under our agreement with the Central Banks and increased program work with a government agency contractor. Subscription. Subscription revenue includes Digimarc Discover, Barcode and Guardian products and services, is generally recurring in nature, paid in advance and recognized over the term of the subscription. The increase in subscription revenue for the three-month period was primarily from software license fees, recognized over the associated 12-month support period. License. License revenue originates primarily from licensing our intellectual property where we receive license fees and/or royalties as our income stream. The decrease in license revenue for the three-month period was primarily due to the end of the quarterly license fee payments from Nielsen in the first quarter of 2014 and the end of the quarterly royalty payments from Verance in the fourth quarter of 2014. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Revenue by geography: Domestic $ 1,687 $ 3,117 $ (1,430 ) (46 )% International 4,302 4,088 214 5 % Total $ 5,989 $ 7,205 $ (1,216 ) (17 )% Revenue (as % of total revenue): Domestic 28 % 43 % International 72 % 57 % Total 100 % 100 % 19 Table of Contents The decrease in domestic revenue for the three-month period was primarily the result of the end of the quarterly license fee payments from Nielsen and quarterly royalty payments from Verance, partially offset by higher subscription revenue. The increase in international revenue for the three-month period was primarily due to higher service revenue from the Central Banks. We anticipate revenue in 2015 will be down slightly when compared with 2014, reflecting the end of license fee payments from Nielsen and royalty payments from Verance, partially offset by growth in revenues from our Digimarc Discover and Barcode products and higher service revenue. Cost of Revenue Service . Cost of service revenue primarily includes costs that are allocated from research, development and engineering, sales and marketing and intellectual property that relate directly to performing services under our customer contracts and direct costs of program delivery for both personnel and operating expenses. Costs include: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of our software developers, quality assurance personnel, product managers, business development managers and other personnel where we bill our customers for time and materials costs; payments to outside contractors that are billed to customers; charges for equipment directly used by customers; depreciation and other charges for machinery, equipment and software directly used by customers; travel costs directly attributable to service and development contracts; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Subscription . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of operations personnel; cost of outside contractors to support our Digimarc Guardian anti-piracy service; amortization of existing technology acquired in the Attributor acquisition; Internet service provider connectivity charges and image search data fees to support the services offered to our subscription customers; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. License . Cost of license revenue primarily includes: amortization of capitalized patent costs and patent maintenance fees; license costs from third parties; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Gross Profit: Service $ 1,923 $ 1,574 $ 349 22 % Subscription 962 763 199 26 % License 688 2,722 (2,034 ) (75 )% Total $ 3,573 $ 5,059 $ (1,486 ) (29 )% Gross Profit (as % of related revenue components): Service 55 % 53 % Subscription 56 % 54 % License 89 % 97 % Total 60 % 70 % 20 Table of Contents The decrease in total gross profit and total gross profit as a percentage of total revenue for the three-month period was due primarily to the end of the quarterly license fee payments from Nielsen in the first quarter of 2014 and the end of the quarterly royalty payments from Verance in the fourth quarter of 2014. The increase in service gross profit as a percentage of service revenue was due primarily to higher billable rates under our contract with the Central Banks. The increase in subscription gross profit as a percentage of subscription revenue was due primarily to increased revenue from software license fees. The decrease in license gross profit and license gross profit as a percentage of license revenue was due primarily to the end of the quarterly license fee payments from Nielsen and quarterly royalty payments from Verance. We anticipate gross profit and gross profit as a percentage of revenue to be lower in 2015 than 2014, reflecting lower projected license revenue partially offset by higher projected service and subscription revenue. Operating Expenses We allocate certain costs of research, development and engineering, sales and marketing, and intellectual property to cost of revenue when they relate directly to our customer contracts. We record all remaining, or residual, costs as sales and marketing, research, development and engineering, general and administrative, and intellectual property expenses. We anticipate operating expenses will be lower in 2015 than 2014 primarily due to lower research, development and engineering, general and administrative and intellectual property expenses, partially offset by higher sales and marketing expenses. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Increase Percent Increase Sales and marketing $ 2,090 $ 1,879 $ 211 11 % Sales and marketing (as % of total revenue) 35 % 26 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of sales and marketing employees and product managers; travel and market research costs, and costs associated with marketing programs, such as trade shows, public relations and new product launches; professional services and outside contractors for product and marketing initiatives; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three-month period was due primarily to increased headcount, reflecting the expansion of our sales organization in support of Digimarc Discover and Barcode. We anticipate sales and marketing expenses in 2015 will be higher than 2014 due to the expansion of our sales organization in support of Digimarc Discover and Barcode. 21 Table of Contents Research, development and engineering Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Decrease Percent Decrease Research, development and engineering $ 3,084 $ 3,546 $ (462 ) (13 )% Research, development and engineering (as % of total revenue) 51 % 49 % Research, development and engineering expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense, recruiting and related costs of software and hardware developers and quality assurance personnel; payments to outside contractors; the purchase of materials and services for product development; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The decrease in research, development and engineering expenses for the three-month period was due primarily to reduced headcount and reduced use of outside contractors. We anticipate research, development and engineering expenses in 2015 will be lower than 2014 as we continue the transition from research and product development to market development and delivery of Digimarc Discover and Barcode. General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Decrease Percent Decrease General and administrative $ 2,206 $ 2,421 $ (215 ) (9 )% General and administrative (as % of total revenue) 37 % 34 % We incur general and administrative costs in the functional areas of finance, legal, human resources, executive and board of directors. Costs for facilities and information technology are also managed as part of the general and administrative processes and are allocated to this area as well as each of the areas in costs of revenue, sales and marketing, research, development and engineering and intellectual property. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense and related costs of general and administrative personnel; third party and professional fees associated with legal, accounting and human resources; costs associated with being a public company; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The decrease in general and administrative expenses for the three-month period was due primarily to lower legal costs as the licensing audit of Intellectual Ventures ended in the first quarter of 2014. We anticipate general and administrative expenses will be lower in 2015 than 2014, primarily reflecting lower legal costs. We will continue to examine means to reduce general and administrative expenses in the longer term. 22 Table of Contents Intellectual property Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Decrease Percent Decrease Intellectual property $ 367 $ 534 $ (167 ) (31 )% Intellectual property (as % of total revenue) 6 % 7 % We incur intellectual property expenses that arise primarily from costs associated with documenting, applying for, and maintaining domestic and international patents and trademarks. Gross expenditures for intellectual property costs, before reflecting the effect of capitalized patent costs, primarily consist of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense and related costs of attorneys and legal assistants; third party costs, including filing and governmental regulatory fees and fees for outside legal counsel and translation costs, each incurred in the patent process; consulting costs related to marketing our intellectual property portfolio; charges to write-off previously capitalized patent costs for patent assets we abandon; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Intellectual property expenses can vary from period to period based on: the level of capitalized patent activity, and prosecution costs and direct labor hours (compensation, benefits and incentive compensation) related to the patents that were exclusively licensed to IV that are allocated to cost of revenue. The decrease in intellectual property expense for the three-month period resulted primarily from a third party intellectual property marketing study performed in the first quarter of 2014. We anticipate intellectual property expenses will be lower in 2015 than 2014, primarily as a result of the third party intellectual property marketing study performed in 2014 that is not planned to reoccur in 2015. Stock-based compensation Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Cost of revenue $ 185 $ 142 $ 43 30 % Sales and marketing 159 142 17 12 % Research, development and engineering 287 356 (69 ) (19 )% General and administrative 518 550 (32 ) (6 )% Intellectual property 68 69 (1 ) (1 )% Total $ 1,217 $ 1,259 $ (42 ) (3 )% Stock-based compensation expense was essentially flat for the three-month period. We anticipate incurring an additional $12,411 in stock-based compensation expense through March 2019 for awards outstanding as of March 31, 2015. 23 Table of Contents Other income, net Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Decrease Percent Decrease Other income, net $ 23 $ 27 $ (4 ) (15 )% Other income, net (as % of total revenue) * * * Less than 1% Other income, net was essentially flat for the three-month period. Benefit for Income Taxes The benefit for income taxes for the three-months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 reflects current taxes, deferred taxes, and withholding taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. The effective tax rate for the three-months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was 0% and 40%, respectively. The effective tax rate was 0% for the three-months ended March 31, 2015 because we have a full valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance against deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2015 was $8,858, an increase of $1,570 from $7,288 as of December 31, 2014. We continually assess the applicability of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Based upon the positive and negative evidence available as of March 31, 2015, and largely due to the cumulative loss incurred by us over the last three years, which is considered a significant piece of negative evidence when assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, a full valuation allowance is recorded against our deferred tax assets. Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 Working capital $ 38,776 $ 40,440 Current ratio (1) 9.7:1 9.0:1 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities $ 37,095 $ 38,323 Long-term marketable securities $ $ 749 Total cash, cash equivalents and all marketable securities $ 37,095 $ 39,072 (1) The current ratio is calculated by dividing total current assets by total current liabilities. The $2.0 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities resulted primarily from: cash used in operations; purchases of common stock related to the vesting of restricted stock; and purchases of property and equipment and capitalized patent costs; partially offset by cash flows provided by the net maturity of marketable securities; and proceeds from stock option exercises. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and trade accounts receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions and at times deposits may exceed insured limits. Marketable securities primarily include corporate notes, pre-refunded municipal bonds and commercial paper. Our investment policy requires the portfolio to be invested to ensure that the greater of $3 million or 7% of the invested funds will be available within 30 days notice. Other than cash used for operating needs, which may include short-term marketable securities, our investment policy limits our credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of financial instrument by limiting the maximum of 5% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities or $1 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one issuer except for the U.S. government, U.S. federal agencies and U.S. backed securities, which have no limits, at the time of purchase. Our investment policy 24 Table of Contents also limits our credit exposure by limiting to a maximum of 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, or $15 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one industry category (e.g., financial or energy industries) at the time of purchase. As a result, we believe our credit risk associated with cash and investments to be minimal. A decline in the market value of any security below cost that is deemed to be other-than-temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. To determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider whether we have the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price recovery and evidence indicating that the cost of the investment is recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. There have been no other-than-temporary impairments identified or recorded by us. Operating Cash Flow. The components of operating cash flows were: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Net loss $ (4,150 ) $ (1,986 ) $ (2,164 ) (109 )% Non-cash items 1,832 1,210 622 51 % Changes in operating assets and liabilities 282 (604 ) 886 147 % Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,036 ) $ (1,380 ) $ (656 ) (48 )% Cash flows from operating activities for the three-month period decreased by $0.7 million, primarily as the result of a higher net loss, partially offset by increased changes in operating assets and liabilities and non-cash items. The increase from changes in operating assets and liabilities for the three-month period was primarily due to changes in other current assets. The increase from non-cash items primarily reflects no income tax benefits recorded during the three-months ended March 31, 2015 due to the full valuation allowance recorded on deferred tax assets. Cash flows provided by investing activities for the three-month period decreased by $0.9 million from $1.5 million to $0.6 million, primarily as a result of lower net maturities of marketable securities. Cash flows from financing activities for the three-month period increased by $1.3 million from $0.9 million used to $0.4 million provided, primarily as a result of no cash dividends paid and lower purchases of common stock. Future Cash Expectations We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances will satisfy our projected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We have a $100 million shelf registration statement in place, of which $30 million has been allocated, and $13.3 million remains available, for future sale under the Equity Distribution Agreement entered into with Wells Fargo Securities, LLC in August 2014. We did not sell any common stock under the Equity Distribution Agreement during the three-month period ended March 31, 2015. We may sell shares under the Equity Distribution Agreement and/or use other financing means to raise working capital in the future, if necessary, to support continued investment in our strategic initiatives. We may also raise capital in the future to fund acquisitions and/or investments in complementary businesses, technologies or product lines. If it becomes necessary to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to do so, or if these funds are available, they may not be available on satisfactory terms. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the contractual obligations disclosed in our 2014 Annual Report, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. Words such as may, should, could, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, project, estimate, continue, variations of such terms or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward- 25 Table of Contents looking statements, or other statements made by us, are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting us, and are subject to uncertainties and factors (including those specified below), which are difficult to predict and, in many instances, are beyond our control. As a result, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any such forward-looking statements, and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements relating to: concentration of revenue with few customers comprising a large majority of the revenue; revenue trends and expectations; our future level of investment in our business, including investment in research, development and engineering of products and technology, development and protection of our intellectual property, sales growth initiatives and development of new market opportunities; our ability to improve margins; anticipated expenses, costs, margins, provision for income taxes and investment activities in the foreseeable future; anticipated revenue to be generated from current contracts and as a result of new programs; variability of contracted arrangements; our profitability in future periods; business opportunities that could require that we seek additional financing; the size and growth of our markets; the existence of international growth opportunities and our future investment in such opportunities; the sources of our future revenue; our expected short-term and long-term liquidity positions; our capital expenditure and working capital requirements and our ability to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs through cash flow from operations; capital market conditions, interest rate volatility and other limitations on the availability of capital, which could have an impact on our cost of capital and our ability to access the capital markets; our use of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in upcoming quarters; anticipated levels of backlog in future periods; the success of our arrangements with Intellectual Ventures; the success of our acquisition of Attributor Corporation; the success of Digimarc Discover and Barcode; protection, development and monetization of our intellectual property portfolio; and other risks detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our 2014 Annual Report. We believe that the risk factors specified above and the risk factors identified in Part I, Item 1A of our 2014 Annual Report, among others, could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors and that there may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us or by persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.