Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Recent Developments for a description of these ratio covenants. If we fail to satisfy these covenants, the lender may declare a default, which could lead to acceleration of the debt maturity. Any such default would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The collateral pledged to secure our secured debt, consisting of substantially all of our and our U.S. subsidiaries assets, would be available to the secured creditor in a foreclosure, in addition to many other remedies. Accordingly, any adverse change in our ability to service our secured debt could result in an event of default, cross default and foreclosure or forced sale. Depending on the value of the assets, there could be little if any assets available for common stockholders in any foreclosure or forced sale. To service our debt and fund our other capital requirements, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. On April 29, 2021, we borrowed approximately $107.0 million under our senior revolving credit facility, and on May 25, 2021, we borrowed an additional $130.0 million under our senior revolving credit facility to fund the cash closing payments for the AdColony and Fyber acquisitions. In addition, under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement for the acquisition of AdColony, we are obligated to pay $100.0 million in cash on or before October 29, 2021 and an earn-out payment estimated between $150.0 million to $175.0 million in cash within 10 days after December 31, 2021. In addition, under the Sale and Purchase Agreement for the acquisition of Fyber, we must pay the tender offer consideration in cash and are obligated to make a potential earn-out payment of up to $50.0 million, which may be paid in shares of our common stock or, under certain circumstances, in cash. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and investments in our business will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, availability of borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and our ability to access the capital markets. For example, this could include general and regional economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors. We cannot ensure that we will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings or the capital markets will be available, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional indebtedness or equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. 40 The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, and you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the current price. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including announcements of new products or services by our competitors. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; developments in the financial markets, and the worldwide or regional economies; announcements of innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; significant sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and changes in accounting principles. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities. If a stockholder were to file any such class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our managements attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. Our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market (NADSAQ). A de-listing of our common stock from NADSAQ could materially reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in a corresponding material reduction in the price of our common stock. In addition, de listing could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, employees and fewer business development opportunities. The sale of securities by us in any equity or debt financing, or the issuance of new shares related to an acquisition, could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Any sale or issuance of common stock by us in a future offering or acquisition could result in dilution to the existing stockholders as a direct result of our issuance of additional shares of our capital stock. In addition, our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth by acquiring complimentary businesses, acquiring or licensing additional brands, or establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so, or to finance the cost of our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our stockholders stock ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company, and this could negatively impact our earnings and results of operations. We may choose to raise additional capital to finance the purchase price of acquisitions or to otherwise accelerate the growth of our business, and we may not be able to raise capital to grow our business on terms acceptable to us or at all. Should we choose to pursue alternatives to accelerate the growth or enhance our existing business, we may require significant cash outlays and commitments. If our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and any cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the fair market value of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. 41 Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price of our common stock. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock to raise capital. In addition, under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement for the acquisition of AdColony, we must pay $100.0 million in cash on or before October 29, 2021 and an earn-out payment estimated between $150.0 million to $175.0 million in cash following December 31, 2021, and we may need to raise funds in the capital markets to fund such cash payment obligations. Also, under the terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreement for the acquisition of Fyber, we issued 3,216,935 newly-issued shares of our common stock equal in value to $235.0 million and will issue 2,599,653 newly-issued shares of our common stock equal in value to $165.0 million in June 2021, and may have to make an earn-out payment of up to $50.0 million in shares of our common stock or, under certain circumstances, cash. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, and the vesting of restricted stock units and restricted stock. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business or us. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, our common stock price would likely decline. If analysts cease coverage of the Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not anticipate paying dividends. Our secured and unsecured indebtedness essentially prevents all payments of dividends to our stockholders. Even if such dividends were permitted by the applicable lenders, we have never paid cash or other dividends on our common stock. Payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, our capital requirements and financial condition, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. However, the earliest our Board of Directors would likely consider a dividend is if we begin to generate excess cash flow. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we might not be able to report our financial results accurately or prevent fraud. In that case, our stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could negatively impact the price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires us to evaluate and report on our internal control over financial reporting. Management concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting were effective as of March 31, 2021; refer to Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information about managements assessment of internal controls. We cannot be certain that measures taken by the Company will continue to ensure that we implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future. Even if we are able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting provides reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we discover material weaknesses in our internal controls, the disclosure of that fact, even if quickly remedied, could reduce the markets confidence in our financial statements and harm our stock price. In addition, if we fail to comply with the applicable portions of Section 404, we could be subject to a variety of civil and administrative sanctions and penalties, including ineligibility for short form resale registration, action by the SEC, and the inability of registered broker-dealers to make a market in our common stock. 42 Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert managements attention, and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified members for our Board of Directors. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Additionally, the time and effort required to maintain communications with stockholders and the public markets can be demanding on senior management, which can divert focus from operational and strategic efforts. The requirements of the public markets and the related regulatory requirements has resulted in an increase in our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, may make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and may place undue strain on our talent, systems, and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure