Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or the future financial performance of Digimarc that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. See the discussion regarding forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the disclosures made in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 filed on February 26, 2021 (our 2020 Annual Report), and other reports and filings we have made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to Company, Digimarc, we, our and us refer to Digimarc Corporation. All dollar amounts are in thousands except per share amounts or unless otherwise noted. The percentages within the tables may not sum to 100% due to rounding. Digimarc, Digimarc Barcode and Digimarc Discover are registered trademarks of Digimarc Corporation. Overview Digimarc Corporation is a pioneer in the automatic identification of media, including packaging, other commercial print, digital images, audio and video. The Digimarc Platform takes industry beyond the barcode, providing innovative and comprehensive automatic identification software and services to simplify search and transform information discovery through unparalleled reliability, efficiency and security. The Digimarc Platform enables applications that benefit retailers and consumer brands, national and state government agencies, media and entertainment industries, and others. The Digimarc Platform features three core capabilities for the identification, discovery and quality management of media. Digimarc Barcode integrates the identification function, which is a novel data carrier encoded into media in ways that are generally imperceptible to people, permitting the carrier to be repeated many times over the surface of the enhanced media. Digimarc Discover represents the discovery function, which is software for computing devices and network interfaces that recognize and decode indicia of the identity of media. These include, but are not limited to, Digimarc Barcodes, Quick Response Codes, Universal Product Codes, certain other GS1 approved one-dimensional codes and relevant contextual data. Digimarc Verify incorporates the quality management function, a suite of software tools used to inspect and verify that the identification and discovery of media are both accurate and effective. Together, these core capabilities enable organizations, application developers, and other solution providers to build new and improve existing automatic identification solutions. The Digimarc Platform enables customers to create digital identities for media objects and provides many benefits for connected media, including: Security: An imperceptible and indestructible data carrier encoded in the object provides a unique identification, whether in a digital image, video or audio file, or in graphics printed, embossed or etched on paper, cardboard, plastic, metal, or other material. Among other things, this identification supports strong authentication. Brand Protection: A unique identifier (ID) enables fraud deterrence across many use cases, from preventing barcode swapping and counterfeiting of currency, media, and goods to detection of use or distribution of physical products and digital images and e-publications. Traceability: The ID can carry serial numbers for easier tracking of individual items or entire lots. This has many uses, from ensuring product legitimacy to preventing product pirating to quickly identifying products for recall based on source provenance and sales destination. Sustainability: The ID can contain information specific to packaging content as an aid to broader and more efficient recycling. For example, a microscopic pattern embossed in plastic packaging can identify the materials used and their composition to aid sorting and recapture. Similarly, enhanced labels for fresh foods can be used to dynamically adjust pricing and thus reduce food waste proactively. Engagement: Consumers can directly interact with enhanced objects by merely scanning the item with their enabled smartphones. Brands can share additional product information online including recipes, instructions for use and recycling, information about ingredients and sources, how-to videos, coupons, and more. 19 Efficiency: Connected items, reliably scanned by machines and mobile devices, can enhance supply chain efficiencies, from parts matching in manufacturing to faster and more accurate inventory scanning and faster and easier front-of-store checkout experiences. Our inventions provide a powerful document security element, giving rise to a long-term relationship with a consortium of central banks (the Central Banks) and many leading companies in the information technology industry. We and our business partners have successfully propagated the use of our technology in music, movies, television broadcasts, digital images, e-publications and printed materials. Digimarc Barcode is used in these applications to improve media rights and asset management, reduce piracy and counterfeiting losses, improve marketing programs, permit more efficient and effective distribution of valuable media content, and enhance consumer entertainment and commercial experiences. Digimarc Barcode can be used to enhance all forms of media and is generally imperceptible to human senses, but quickly detected by computers, networks, or other digital devices like smartphones and tablets. Unlike traditional barcodes and tags, our solution does not require content owners to give up valuable visual space on their media content, nor does it affect their media contents overall layout or aesthetics. Digimarc Barcode is generally imperceptible in regular use and does all that visible barcodes do, but performs better. Our Digimarc Discover software delivers a range of rich media experiences to its readers on their smartphones or tablets across multiple media formats, including print, audio and video. Unique to Digimarc Discover is its seamless multi-modal use of various content identification technologies as needed, including Digimarc Barcode, when present. Banknote counterfeit deterrence was the first commercially successful large-scale use of our technologies. Innovations based on our existing technology and experience have been leveraged to create new products to deter counterfeiting and tampering of driver licenses and other government-issued secure credentials. In parallel, our business partners, under patent or technology licenses from us, are delivering solutions to track and monitor the distribution of music, images, television and movies to consumers. Our intellectual property contains many innovations in digital watermarking, object content recognition, digital rights management, and related fields. To protect our inventions, we have implemented an extensive intellectual property protection program that relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and nondisclosure agreements and other contracts. As a result, we believe we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields, with approximately 1,000 U.S. and foreign patents granted and applications pending as of March 31, 2021. The patents in our portfolio each have a life of approximately 20 years from the patents effective filing date. The market for patent licensing has become more challenging in recent years. As a result, we have shifted our focus from direct monetization through enforcement and licensing to facilitating progress toward the realization of our vision to enrich everyday living via pervasive, intuitive computing by: encouraging large scale adoption of our technologies by industry leaders; increasing the scale and rate of growth of our products and services business; and laying a foundation for continuous innovation. For a discussion of activities and costs related to our research and development, see Results of Operations Summary Research, development and engineering. Forging a Sustainable Future At Digimarc, the environment is an essential stakeholder in everything we do, and we are committed to harnessing our culture of innovation to mitigate the visible and increasingly damaging effects of rising greenhouse gas emissions. We support a sustainable future by improving plastic sortation at recycling facilities to keep plastic out of landfills and oceans. Our technologies play a meaningful role in reducing food waste and educating consumers on package recyclability. The Digimarc Platform features automatic identification software and services that help reduce food waste, increase traceability, and promote a circular economy by educating consumers on recycling options and improving plastic sortation at waste facilities. Digimarc Barcode applied to plastic packaging, labels, corrugate and other materials, can significantly help to address pressing environmental issues, such as climate change and the proliferation of plastic in our environment. 20 Recycling : Digimarc works with leading consumer brands to optimize packaging for the circular economy. Digimarc Barcode enables better detection and sortation of plastics, improving the economics and efficiencies of the recycling value chain. And, as part of the AIM HolyGrail 2.0 project focused on pioneering the use of digital watermarks, Digimarc can better enable companies to reach their recycling and sustainability goals. Traceability: Product traceability across the global supply chain is increasingly essential for consumer brands and food manufacturers to promote consumer safety, mitigate risk, and gain real-time insight into product locations in warehouses and distribution centers. Using Digimarc technologies for packaging supports these business needs with batch-lot and item-level traceability by applying serialized or custom identifiers and additional data to product packaging. Together with our customers and partners around the world, we drive positive impacts across global supply chains. Our efforts prioritize people and the planet by aiming to eliminate waste and helping our customers meet their sustainability goals. As consumption trends and behaviors evolve, we are listening to our partners, their customers and other critical stakeholders, all of whom expect us all to operate with future generations in mind. We partner with global brand leaders, retailers, packaging and print innovators, and other technology solution providers who share the same mission of building a sustainable future. COVID-19 Pandemic The COVID-19 pandemic poses significant risks to our business. The ongoing public health actions attempting to reduce the spread of COVID-19 created and may continue to create significant disruptions to consumer demand, customer and supplier relationships, sales and support processes, and general economic conditions. Accordingly, our management continuously evaluates our business operations, communicates with and monitors the actions of our customers and partners, and reviews our near-term financial performance as we manage the Company through the uncertainty related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Some of our projects with retail customers and partners have been delayed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Delays in these projects have affected the timing of closing new business. To help ensure adequate liquidity during this period and in light of uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, we received a loan on April 16, 2020 under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP). On September 15, 2020, we filed our application for 100% forgiveness of the loan. Our application was reviewed by the lender and submitted to the Small Business Administration (SBA) for approval on December 17, 2020. We have not received any notification from the SBA on the status of their review. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Detailed information about our critical accounting policies and estimates is set forth in Part III, Item 15 of our 2020 Annual Report (Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules), in Note 1: Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , which is incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 21 Results of Operations The following table presents statements of operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue. Unless stated otherwise, all references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations relate to the three month period ended March 31, 2021, and all changes discussed with respect to such periods reflect changes compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2020. Three Three Months Months Ended Ended March 31, March 31, 2021 2020 Percentages are percent of total revenue Revenue: Service 56 % 60 % Subscription 44 40 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Service 23 27 Subscription 12 8 Total cost of revenue 35 36 Gross profit 65 64 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 74 85 Research, development and engineering 62 72 General and administrative 52 54 Total operating expenses 188 211 Operating loss (123 ) (146 ) Other income, net 0 2 Loss before income taxes (123 ) (144 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes (0 ) 0 Net loss (123 %) (144 %) Summary Total revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, increased 8% to $6.7 million, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, primarily as a result of higher subscription revenue from a new Commercial customer. Total operating expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, decreased 4% to $12.6 million, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, primarily as a result of lower travel, compensation and marketing costs. Revenue Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue: Service $ 3,784 $ 3,738 $ 46 1 % Subscription 2,916 2,451 465 19 % Total $ 6,700 $ 6,189 $ 511 8 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Service 56 % 60 % Subscription 44 % 40 % Total 100 % 100 % 22 Service . Service revenue consists primarily of revenue earned from the performance of software development services. The majority of service contracts are structured as time and materials agreements. Revenue for services is generally recognized as the services are performed. Billing for services rendered generally occurs within one month after the services are provided. Service contracts can range from days to several years in length. Our contract with the Central Banks, which accounts for the majority of service revenue, has a contract term through December 31, 2024 with the option to extend the term for an additional five years by mutual agreement. The contract is subject to work plans that are reviewed and agreed upon quarterly. The contract provides for predetermined billing rates, which are adjusted annually to account for cost of living variables, and provides for the reimbursement of third party costs incurred to support the work plans. The increase in service revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was due to growth in services to Commercial customers partially offset by a decrease in services to the Central Banks due to the timing of program work. Subscription. Subscription revenue consists primarily of revenue earned from the sale of software products and, to a lesser extent, the licensing of intellectual property. The majority of subscription contracts are recurring, paid in advance and recognized over the term of the subscription, which is typically one to three years. The increase in subscription revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to entering into a contract with a new Commercial customer. Most of the minimum contract value was recognized as revenue upon delivery of the software, instead of recognized ratably over the two-year term of the contract, because we had no continuing performance obligations after delivery. Revenue by geography Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue by geography: Domestic $ 1,722 $ 1,759 $ (37 ) (2 )% International 4,978 4,430 548 12 % Total $ 6,700 $ 6,189 $ 511 8 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Domestic 26 % 28 % International 74 % 72 % Total 100 % 100 % The decrease in domestic revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was insignificant. The increase in international revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to entering into a contract with a new international Commercial customer. Most of the minimum contract value was recognized as revenue upon delivery of the software, instead of recognized ratably over the two-year term of the contract, because we had no continuing performance obligations after delivery. 23 Revenue by market Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Government: Service $ 3,585 $ 3,652 $ (67 ) (2 )% Subscription 300 300 % Total Government $ 3,885 $ 3,952 $ (67 ) (2 )% Commercial: Service $ 199 $ 86 $ 113 131 % Subscription 2,616 2,151 465 22 % Total Commercial $ 2,815 $ 2,237 $ 578 26 % Total $ 6,700 $ 6,189 $ 511 8 % The decrease in Government revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was due to timing of program work with the Central Banks. The increase in Commercial revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to entering into a contract with a new Commercial customer. Most of the minimum contract value was recognized as revenue upon delivery of the software, instead of recognized ratably over the two-year term of the contract, because we had no continuing performance obligations after delivery. Cost of revenue Service. Cost of service revenue primarily includes: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of our software developers, quality assurance personnel, design professionals, product managers, business development managers and other personnel where we bill our customers for time and materials costs; payments to outside contractors that are billed to customers; charges for equipment directly used by customers; depreciation for machinery, equipment and software directly used by customers; and travel costs that are billed to customers. Subscription . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes: cost of outside contractors that provide operational support for our subscription products; license fees paid to technology solution providers when we sell a combined solution; Internet service provider connectivity charges and image search data fees to support our subscription products; and amortization of capitalized patent costs and patent maintenance fees. 24 Gross profit Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Gross Profit: Service $ 2,214 $ 2,054 $ 160 8 % Subscription 2,125 1,937 188 10 % Total $ 4,339 $ 3,991 $ 348 9 % Gross Profit (as % of related revenue): Service 59 % 55 % Subscription 73 % 79 % Total 65 % 64 % The increase in total gross profit for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to growth in subscription revenue and lower service costs partially offset by higher subscription costs. The increase in service gross profit as a percentage of service revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to a favorable mix of billable expenses, with higher labor expenses, which have a higher billable margin, and lower non-labor expenses, which have a lower billable margin . The decrease in subscription gross profit as a percentage of subscription revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to higher license fees to a technology solution provider partially offset by higher revenue. Operating expenses Sales and marketing Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Sales and marketing $ 4,941 $ 5,246 $ (305 ) (6 )% Sales and marketing (as % of total revenue) 74 % 85 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of sales and marketing employees and product managers; travel and market research costs, and costs associated with marketing programs, such as trade shows, public relations and new product launches; professional services and outside contractor costs for product and marketing initiatives; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to: decreased travel costs of $0.2 million due to travel restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic; and decreased marketing costs of $0.2 million; partially offset by increased recruiting costs of $0.1 million. 25 Research, development and engineering Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Research, development and engineering $ 4,131 $ 4,433 $ (302 ) (7 )% Research, development and engineering (as % of total revenue) 62 % 72 % Research, development and engineering expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of software and hardware developers and quality assurance personnel; payments to outside contractors; the purchase of materials and services for product development; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The decrease in research, development and engineering expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to decreased compensation costs of $0.2 million reflecting lower headcount. General and administrative Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) General and administrative $ 3,493 $ 3,367 $ 126 4 % General and administrative (as % of total revenue) 52 % 54 % We incur general and administrative costs in the functional areas of finance, legal, human resources, intellectual property, executive and board of directors. Costs for facilities and information technology are also managed as part of the general and administrative processes and are allocated to this area as well as each of the areas in cost of revenue, sales and marketing and research, development and engineering. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of general and administrative personnel; third party and professional fees associated with legal, accounting and human resources functions; costs associated with being a public company; third party costs, including filing and governmental regulatory fees and fees for outside legal counsel and translation costs, related to the filing and maintenance of our intellectual property; charges to write off previously capitalized patent costs for patent assets we abandon; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to: increased legal and accounting costs of $0.1 million, and 26 increased compensation costs of $0.1 million; partially offset by decreased travel costs of $0.1 million due to travel restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Stock-based compensation Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Cost of revenue $ 173 $ 190 $ (17 ) (9 )% Sales and marketing 440 479 (39 ) (8 )% Research, development and engineering 396 399 (3 ) (1 )% General and administrative 1,001 1,127 (126 ) (11 )% Total $ 2,010 $ 2,195 $ (185 ) (8 )% The decrease in stock-based compensation expense for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to a lower value of stock awards granted. We anticipate incurring an additional $18,699 in stock-based compensation expense through March 31, 2025, for awards outstanding as of March 31, 2021. Other income, net Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Other income, net $ 10 $ 142 $ (132 ) (93 )% Other income, net (as % of total revenue) 0 % 2 % The decrease in other income, net for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, was primarily due to lower interest rates earned on investments, partially offset by higher average investment balances. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes reflects current taxes, deferred taxes, and withholding taxes. The effective tax rate for each of the three month periods ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was 0% because we have a full valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance against deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2021, was $57,850, an increase of $2,211 from $55,639 as of December 31, 2020. We continually assess the applicability of a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Based upon the positive and negative evidence available as of March 31, 2021, and largely due to the cumulative loss incurred by us over the last several years, which is considered a significant piece of negative evidence when assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, a full valuation allowance is recorded against our deferred tax assets. We will not record tax benefits on any future losses until it is determined that those tax benefits will be realized. All future reversals of the valuation allowance would result in a tax benefit in the period recognized. 27 Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, December 31, 2021 2020 Working capital $ 65,870 $ 74,056 Current ratio (1) 7.1:1 8.6:1 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities $ 70,501 $ 77,728 Long-term marketable securities $ 159 $ Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 70,660 $ 77,728 (1) The current (liquidity) ratio is calculated by dividing total current assets by total current liabilities. The $7,068 decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 31, 2021, from December 31, 2020, resulted primarily from: cash used in operations; purchases of common stock related to tax withholding in connection with the vesting of restricted stock; and purchases of property and equipment and capitalized patent costs. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and trade accounts receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions and at times deposits may exceed insured limits. Marketable securities primarily include commercial paper, pre-refunded municipals, and corporate notes. Our investment policy requires our portfolio to be invested to ensure that the greater of $3,000 or 7% of the invested funds will be available within 30 days notice. Other than cash used for operating needs, which may include short-term marketable securities, our investment policy limits our credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of financial instrument by limiting the maximum of 5% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities or $1,000, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one issuer except for the U.S. government, U.S. federal agencies and U.S. backed securities, which have no limits, at the time of purchase. Our investment policy also limits our credit exposure by limiting to a maximum of 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, or $15,000, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one industry category (e.g., financial or energy industries) at the time of purchase. As a result, we believe our credit risk associated with cash and investments to be minimal. A decline in the market value of any security below cost that is deemed to be other-than-temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. To determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider whether we have the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price recovery and evidence indicating that the cost of the investment is recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. There have been no other-than-temporary impairments identified or recorded by us in the three month periods ended March 31, 2021 and 2020. Operating Cash Flow The components of cash flows used in operating activities were: Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2021 2020 (Decrease) (Decrease) Net loss $ (8,222 ) $ (8,908 ) $ (686 ) (8 )% Non-cash items 2,402 2,984 582 20 % Changes in operating assets and liabilities (168 ) 175 343 196 % Net cash used in operating activities $ (5,988 ) $ (5,749 ) $ 239 4 % Cash flows used in operating activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, increased by $239, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, primarily as a result of lower non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by a lower net loss. The decrease in non-cash items was primarily due to higher amortization of net discounts on marketable securities and lower stock-based compensation. The changes in operating assets and liabilities was largely due to timing of receipts from customers and payments to vendors. 28 Cash flows from investing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2021 , compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020 , de creased by $ 12,948 from $ 4,815 provided to $ 8,133 used , primarily as a result of higher net purchases of marketable securities . Cash flows used in financing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2020, increased by $841 from $29 to $870, primarily as a result of no issuances of common stock and no proceeds from stock option exercises during the three month period ended March 31, 2021, and higher purchases of our common stock due to a higher share price in satisfaction of required withholding tax liability in connection with the vesting of restricted shares . Future Cash Expectations We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances will satisfy our projected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We continuously review our liquidity and anticipated capital requirements in light of the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic. TCM Strategic Partners Transaction On September 29, 2020, we entered into a Subscription Agreement with TCM Strategic Partners L.P. in a private placement to issue and sell 2,542 shares of our common stock and 17 shares of our newly designated Series B Convertible Preferred Stock (which subsequently converted into 1,198 shares of our common stock) for an aggregate purchase price of $53,500. We paid a total of $272 in stock issuance costs. Paycheck Protection Program Loan On April 16, 2020, we entered into a Promissory Note with an aggregate principal amount of $5,032 (the Note) with Steans Bank, N.A. pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program (the PPP) under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act). The proceeds gave us more time to observe financial market trends and assess the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company to determine the best course of action concerning financing the business. The Note matures two years from the disbursement date and bears interest at a rate of 1.000% per annum, with the first six months of interest deferred. Principal and interest are payable monthly commencing six months after the disbursement date and may be prepaid by the Company at any time prior to maturity with no prepayment penalties. Subject to the terms and limitations of the PPP, the Note may be forgiven in whole or in part. On June 29, 2020, we were notified by Stearns Bank, N.A. that the Note was transferred to The Loan Source Inc. (the Lender), who will be responsible for servicing the Note going forward, including administering loan forgiveness. We believe that we have used the entire amount of the Note to fund expenses eligible for forgiveness under the PPP, and on September 15, 2020, we filed our application for 100% forgiveness of the Note. Our application was reviewed by the Lender and submitted to the Small Business Administration (SBA) for approval on December 17, 2020. We have not received any notification from the SBA on the status of their review. Principal and interest payments can be deferred until the forgiveness process is completed as no payments would be required if the Note is forgiven. Equity Distribution Agreement On May 16, 2019, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement, whereby we may sell from time to time through Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as our sales agent, our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $30,000. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC will receive from us a commission equal to 2.50% of the gross sales price per share of common stock for shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $10,000, and a commission of 2.25% of the gross sales price per share of common stock thereafter, for shares sold under the Equity Distribution Agreement. As of March 31, 2021, we had sold 498 shares at an average price of $46.36 under this Equity Distribution Agreement, totaling $23,067 of cash proceeds, less $544 of commissions and $645 of stock issuance costs. As of March 31, 2021, there is $6,932 available for future issuance under the Equity Distribution Agreement. Shelf Registration On June 5, 2020, we filed a new shelf registration statement on Form S-3, that included $49,265 of unsold securities from our prior shelf registration statement filed on May 26, 2017 that expired in June 2020. Under the new shelf registration statement, we may sell securities in one or more offerings up to $100,000. As of March 31, 2021, there is $97,892 available under the shelf registration. The new shelf registration statement will expire in July 2023. We may sell shares under the shelf registration and/or use similar or other financing means to raise working capital in the future, if necessary, to support continued investment in our growth initiatives. We may also raise capital in the future to fund acquisitions and/or investments in complementary businesses, technologies or product lines. If it becomes necessary to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to do so, or if these funds are available, they may not be available on satisfactory terms. The COVID-19 pandemic has created substantial uncertainty and volatility in the stock market, particularly in the small cap sector in which our stock is traded, and has negatively impacted our share price. These factors may inhibit our near-term ability to obtain financing. 29 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. We are party to an operating lease for our facility in Beaverton, Oregon. As amended in July 2015, the term of this lease runs through March 2024, with remaining rent payments totaling $2,504, payable in monthly installments. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. Words such as may, might, plan, should, could, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, project, forecast, estimate, continue, and variations of such terms or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, or other statements made by us, are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting us, and are subject to uncertainties and factors (including those specified below), which are difficult to predict and, in many instances, are beyond our control. As a result, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any such forward-looking statements, and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. We believe that the following factors, among others (including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2020 Annual Report), could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements relating to: our beliefs regarding the possible effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on general economic conditions, public health, and consumer demand, and the Companys results of operations, liquidity, capital resources, and general performance in the future; the possible impact of COVID-19 on our ability to obtain financing through our Equity Distribution Agreement and the availability of any alternative sources of financing; the timing and potential for forgiveness of the Note under the terms of the PPP and the possible impact of any audit or review related to the Note; the potential impact of COVID-19 on projects with our Commercial customers and partners; the concentration of most of our revenue among few customers; and the trends and sources of future revenue; anticipated successful advocacy of our technology by our partners; our belief regarding the global deployment of our products; our beliefs regarding potential outcomes of participating in the AIM HolyGrail 2.0 initiative; our future level of investment in our business, including investment in research, development and engineering of products and technology, development of our intellectual property, sales growth initiatives and development of new market opportunities; anticipated expenses, costs, margins, provision for income taxes and investment activities in the foreseeable future; our assumptions and expectations related to stock awards; our belief that we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields; anticipated effect of our adoption of accounting pronouncements; our beliefs regarding our critical accounting policies; our expectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted; anticipated revenue to be generated from current contracts, renewals, and as a result of new programs; our estimates, judgments and assumptions related to impairment testing; variability of contracted arrangements in response to changes in circumstances underlying the original contractual arrangements; 30 business opportunities that could require that we seek additional financing and our ability to do so; the size and growth of our markets and our assumptions and beliefs related to those markets; the existence of international growth opportunities and our future investment in such opportunities; our expected short-term and long-term liquidity positions; our capital expenditure and working capital requirements and our ability to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs through cash flow from operations or financing; the effect of computerized trading on our stock price; capital market conditions, our expectations regarding credit risk exposure, interest rate volatility and other limitations on the availability of capital, which could have an impact on our cost of capital and our ability to access the capital markets; our use of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in upcoming quarters and the possibility that our deposits of cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions may exceed insured limits; the strength of our competitive position and our ability to innovate and enhance our competitive differentiation; our beliefs related to our existing facilities; protection, development and monetization of our intellectual property portfolio; our beliefs related to our relationship with our employees and the effect of increasing diversity within our workforce; our beliefs regarding cybersecurity incidents; our beliefs related to certain provisions in our bylaws and articles of incorporation; and our beliefs related to legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the risk factors specified above and the risk factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2020 Annual Report , among others, could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors and that there may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us or by persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.