Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or the future financial performance of Digimarc that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Please see the discussion regarding forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the disclosures made in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018 filed on February 22, 2019 (our 2018 Annual Report), and other reports and filings we have made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to Company, Digimarc, we, our and us refer to Digimarc Corporation. All dollar amounts are in thousands except per share amounts or unless otherwise noted. The percentages within the tables may not sum to 100% due to rounding. Digimarc, Digimarc Barcode, Digimarc Discover and Guardian are registered trademarks of Digimarc Corporation. Overview Digimarc Corporation, an Oregon corporation incorporated in 2008, enables governments, banks, retailers, consumer brands and other businesses around the world to automatically and reliably identify and interact with virtually any form of media. We have pioneered the Digimarc Intuitive Computing Platform (ICP), a comprehensive set of technologies for identifying, discovering and interacting with digitally-enhanced media. The platform includes Digimarc Barcode, a proprietary method for imperceptibly enhancing packaging, print, images, thermal labels, audio and other objects with data that is detected by enabled devices, such as smart phones, computers, barcode scanners and machine-vision equipment. Digimarc Discover software enables an ecosystem of connected devices to easily identify content or materials and deliver information. Quality management tools, specifications, education and training resources support ICP and enable a growing ecosystem of alliances and developers to build a variety of applications including solutions that: Improve the speed of retail checkout; Provide simple and intuitive mobile customer engagement experiences in stores and at home; Improve inspection rates on manufacturing lines for quality control processes; Provide efficient and reliable identification of consumer-packaged goods by retail associates in stores for inventory management and restocking; Quickly and reliably identify and effectively manage music, movies, television programming, digital images, e-publications, documents and other printed materials, especially in light of non-linear distribution over the Internet; Deter counterfeiting of money, media and goods, and piracy of e-publications, movies and music; Support new digital media distribution models and methods to monetize media content; Provide consumers with more choice and access to media content when, where and how they want it; Enhance imagery and video by associating metadata or authenticating media content for government and commercial uses; and Better secure identity documents to enhance national security and combat identity theft and fraud. Our inventions allow our business partners and customers to provide persistent digital identities for virtually any media content that is digitally processed at some point during its lifecycle. Our technology can be applied to images, video, and audio to supply a wide range of consumer engagement, media management and security solutions across multiple consumer and government industry 17 sectors . Over the years our enabling software and business processes, and associated intellectual prop erty portfolio , have grown to encompass many related technologies. We provide our solutions directly and through our business partners. Our inventions provide a powerful element of document security, giving rise to a long-term relationship with a consortium of central banks (the Central Banks), and many leading companies in the information technology industry. We and our business partners have successfully propagated the use of our technology in music, movies, television broadcasts, digital images, e-publications and printed materials. Digimarc Barcodes have been used in these applications to improve media rights and asset management, reduce piracy and counterfeiting losses, improve marketing programs, permit more efficient and effective distribution of valuable media content and enhance consumer entertainment and commercial experiences. Digimarc Barcodes can be used to enhance all forms of media and are generally imperceptible to human senses, but quickly detected by computers, networks or other digital devices like smartphones and tablets. Unlike traditional barcodes and tags, our solution does not require content owners to give up valuable visual space on their media content; nor does it affect the overall layout or aesthetics of their media content. Digimarc Barcodes are generally imperceptible in normal use and do all that visible barcodes do, but perform better. Our Digimarc Discover platform delivers a range of rich media experiences to its readers on their smartphones or tablets across multiple media formats, including print, audio, video and packaging. Unique to the Digimarc Discover platform is its seamless multi-modal use of various content identification technologies as needed, including Digimarc Barcode when present. Banknote counterfeit deterrence was the first commercially successful large scale use of our technologies. Innovations based on our existing digital watermarking technology and experience have been leveraged to create new products to deter counterfeiting and tampering of driver licenses and other government-issued secure credentials. In parallel, our business partners, under patent or technology licenses from us, are delivering digital watermarking solutions to track and monitor the distribution of music, images, television and movies to consumers. In January 2014, we introduced Digimarc Barcodes for use in consumer product packaging. These Digimarc Barcodes can contain the same or even more information found in traditional universal product codes (UPC). The UPC information is nearly imperceptible and repeated multiple times over the entire package surface making checkout faster and easier for both customers and cashiers. We partnered with Datalogic, a global leader in automatic data capture and industrial automation markets and producer of barcode readers, in introducing the Digimarc Barcode to the consumer product packaging market. Since then, additional scanner vendors and other alliance partners have announced support for Digimarc Barcode. Digimarc Barcodes can also connect mobile-enabled consumers directly from packaging to engaging mobile experiences such as additional product information, special offers, recommendations, reviews, social networks and more. In January 2016, Digimarc and GS1 US, the U.S. operation of the organization that maintains the global standards for barcodes, announced a broad collaboration to help the industries served by GS1 to make effective use of Digimarc Barcode. GS1 US educates, trains and provides access to services to their 300,000 member businesses. Among other things, Digimarc and GS1 US are working to improve product identification for retailers and consumers with brand-certified, accurate product information via Digimarc Barcodes. In September 2016, Digimarc announced a similar collaboration with GS1 Germany. In January 2018, we introduced Digimarc Barcode for use in thermal labels for fresh food products. These Digimarc Barcodes contain GS1 Application Identifiers for fresh foods, allowing retailers to dynamically adjust pricing on soon-to-be-expired fresh foods or sell items at a discount, instead of discarding them. Retail thermal labels with Digimarc Barcode scan even when ripped, creased, smudged or damaged, making checkout faster and easier for both customers and cashiers. We have partnered with multiple industry leading retail scale label manufacturers to introduce thermal labels enabled with Digimarc Barcode to the retail industry. Thermal labels enabled with Digimarc Barcode can also provide consumers an engaging mobile experience similar to Digimarc Barcode for consumer product packaging. In April 2018, Digimarc a nnounced a new 15-year partnership with Microsoft. The partnership includes the integration of Digimarc scanning software into Windows, as part of the Windows 10 update. The two companies have a history of working together to improve retailer operational efficiency and increase consumer engagement with products. 18 In May 2018, Digimarc announced its support of SmartLabel and the availability of Digimarc Barcode scanning capabilities wi thin the SmartLabel app. The SmartLabel program was developed by the Grocery Manufacturers Association and the Food Marketing Institute to give consumers a way to digitally access more detailed product information than could fit on a package. Most recently , Digimarc Barcode has been adopted by the U.S. Department of Agriculture as an approved digital disclosure method for products and packaging containing bioengineered food, commonly referred to as GMOs. The National Bioengineered Food Disclosure Standard was published in December 2018 after a review and comment period lasting more than two years. The regulations include provisions for label disclosure of food products containing genetically modified organisms, which went into effect on February 19, 2019. Consumer goods manufacturers and private label retailers can use Digimarc Barcode as a one-source solution to satisfy both their voluntary SmartLabel program participation and mandatory bioengineering disclosures. In October 2018, Digimarc previewed Signal Rich Art at the Adobe Max Creativity Conference. The Signal Rich Art tools under development employ breakthrough advances in imaging science, machine vision and artificial intelligence to create artwork where machine-readable codes become native, inherent in, and inseparable from the design. Our intellectual property contains many innovations in digital watermarking, content recognition (sometimes referred to as fingerprinting), digital rights management and related fields. To protect our inventions, we have implemented an extensive intellectual property protection program that relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and nondisclosure agreements and other contracts. As a result, we believe we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields, with over 1,100 U.S. and foreign patents granted and applications pending as of March 31, 2019. We continue to develop and broaden our portfolio in the fields of media identification and management technology and related applications and systems. We devote significant resources to developing and protecting our inventions and continuously seek to identify and evaluate potential licensees for our patents. The patents in our portfolio each have a life of approximately 20 years from the effective filing date of the patent, and up to 17 years after the patent has been granted. The market for patent licensing has become more challenging in recent years. As a result, we have shifted our focus from direct monetization through enforcement and licensing to facilitating progress toward the realization of our vision to enrich everyday living via pervasive, intuitive computing by: encouraging large scale adoption of our technologies by industry leaders; increasing the scale and rate of growth of our products and services business; and laying a foundation for continuing innovation. For a discussion of activities and costs related to our research and development, see Results of Operations Summary Research, development and engineering. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Detailed information about our critical accounting policies and estimates is set forth in Part III, Item 15 of our 2018 Annual Report (Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules), in Note 1: Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, which is incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 842, Leases . Additional information is included in Note 10: Leases of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 19 Results of Operations The following table presents statements of operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations relate to the three months ended March 31, 2019 and all changes discussed with respect to such periods reflect changes compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. Three Three Months Months Ended Ended March 31, March 31, 2019 2018 Percentages are percent of total revenue Revenue: Service 64 % 62 % Subscription 28 28 License 8 9 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Service 27 28 Subscription 8 9 License 3 2 Total cost of revenue 38 39 Gross profit 62 61 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 87 87 Research, development and engineering 71 70 General and administrative 50 47 Intellectual property 6 6 Total operating expenses 216 210 Operating loss (153 ) (149 ) Other income, net 4 4 Loss before income taxes (149 ) (144 ) Provision for income taxes (0 ) (0 ) Net loss (150 %) (145 %) Summary Total revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 increased 1% to $5.7 million, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, primarily as a result of higher service revenue. Total operating expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 increased 4% to $12.2 million, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to compensation adjustments for our employees. 20 Revenue Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue: Service $ 3,635 $ 3,507 $ 128 4 % Subscription 1,563 1,578 (15 ) (1 )% License 462 528 (66 ) (13 )% Total $ 5,660 $ 5,613 $ 47 1 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Service 64 % 62 % Subscription 28 % 28 % License 8 % 9 % Total 100 % 100 % Service . Service revenue consists primarily of revenue derived from the sale of software development and consulting services. The majority of service revenue arrangements are structured as time and materials consulting agreements. Most of our service revenue is derived from contracts with the Central Banks and government agency contractors. The agreements range from several months to several years in length, and our longer term contracts are subject to work plans that are reviewed and agreed upon at least annually. These contracts generally provide for billing hours worked at predetermined rates and, to a lesser extent, reimbursement for third party costs and services. Increases or decreases in the services provided under these contracts are generally subject to both volume and price changes. The volume of work is generally negotiated at least annually and can be modified as the customers needs change. We also have provisions in our longer term contracts that allow for specific rate price increases on an annual basis to account for cost of living variables. Contracts with government agency contractors are generally shorter term in nature, less linear in billings and less predictable than our longer term contracts because the contracts with government agency contractors are subject to government budgets and funding. The increase in service revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to the timing of program work with the Central Banks. Subscription. Subscription revenue includes revenue derived from the sale of Digimarc Discover, Digimarc Barcode and Digimarc Guardian products and services, and is generally recurring in nature, paid in advance and recognized over the term of the subscription. The decrease in subscription revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was due to lower Digimarc Guardian revenue, offset by higher Digimarc Discover and Digimarc Barcode revenue. License . License revenue includes revenue from licensing our intellectual property where we receive license fees and/or royalties. The decrease in license revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to lower reported royalties from licensees. 21 Revenue by Geography Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue by geography: Domestic $ 1,317 $ 1,451 $ (134 ) (9 )% International 4,343 4,162 181 4 % Total $ 5,660 $ 5,613 $ 47 1 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Domestic 23 % 26 % International 77 % 74 % Total 100 % 100 % The decrease in domestic revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to lower Digimarc Guardian and license revenue from our domestic customers. The increase in international revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to the timing of program work with the Central Banks. Cost of Revenue Service. Cost of service revenue primarily includes costs that are allocated from research, development and engineering, sales and marketing and intellectual property that relate directly to performing services under our customer contracts and direct costs of program delivery. Costs include: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of our software developers, quality assurance personnel, product managers, business development managers and other personnel where we bill our customers for time and materials costs; payments to outside contractors that are billed to customers; charges for equipment directly used by customers; depreciation for machinery, equipment and software directly used by customers; travel costs directly attributable to service and development contracts; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Subscription . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of operations personnel; cost of outside contractors that provide operational support; and Internet service provider connectivity charges and image search data fees to support the services offered to our subscription customers. License . Cost of license revenue primarily includes: amortization of capitalized patent costs; and amortization of patent maintenance fees. 22 Gross Profit Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Gross Profit: Service $ 2,104 $ 1,944 $ 160 8 % Subscription 1,118 1,096 22 2 % License 304 388 (84 ) (22 )% Total $ 3,526 $ 3,428 $ 98 3 % Gross Profit (as % of related revenue components): Service 58 % 55 % Subscription 72 % 69 % License 66 % 73 % Total 62 % 61 % The increase in total gross profit for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to higher service revenue and lower associated costs. The increase in service gross profit as a percentage of service revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to higher service revenue and lower associated costs. The increase in subscription gross profit as a percentage of subscription revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to lower operational costs. The decrease in license gross profit as a percentage of license revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to lower license revenue and higher patent amortization cost. Operating Expenses We allocate certain costs of research, development and engineering, sales and marketing, and intellectual property to cost of revenue when they relate directly to our customer contracts. We record all remaining, or residual, costs as sales and marketing, research, development and engineering, general and administrative, and intellectual property expenses. Sales and marketing Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Sales and marketing $ 4,950 $ 4,887 $ 63 1 % Sales and marketing (as % of total revenue) 87 % 87 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of sales and marketing employees and product managers; travel and market research costs, and costs associated with marketing programs, such as trade shows, public relations and new product launches; 23 professional services and outside contractor costs for product and marketing initiatives; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was insignificant. Research, development and engineering Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Research, development and engineering $ 4,038 $ 3,947 $ 91 2 % Research, development and engineering (as % of total revenue) 71 % 70 % Research, development and engineering expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of software and hardware developers and quality assurance personnel; charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology payments to outside contractors; and the purchase of materials and services for product development. The increase in research, development and engineering expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was insignificant. General and administrative Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) General and administrative $ 2,852 $ 2,632 $ 220 8 % General and administrative (as % of total revenue) 50 % 47 % We incur general and administrative costs in the functional areas of finance, legal, human resources, executive and board of directors. Costs for facilities and information technology are also managed as part of the general and administrative processes and are allocated to this area as well as each of the areas in cost of revenue, sales and marketing, research, development and engineering and intellectual property. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of general and administrative personnel; third party and professional fees associated with legal, accounting and human resources functions; costs associated with being a public company; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. 24 The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the cor responding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to: increased infrastructure and centralized costs of $0.1 million; and increased headcount and compensation-related expenses of $0.1 million. Intellectual property Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Intellectual property $ 358 $ 315 $ 43 14 % Intellectual property (as % of total revenue) 6 % 6 % We incur intellectual property expenses that arise primarily from costs associated with documenting, applying for, and maintaining domestic and international patents and trademarks. Gross expenditures for intellectual property costs, before reflecting the effect of capitalized patent costs, primarily consist of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of attorneys and legal assistants; third party costs, including filing and governmental regulatory fees and fees for outside legal counsel and translation costs, each incurred in the patent process; charges to write off previously capitalized patent costs for patent assets we abandon; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Intellectual property expenses can vary from period to period based on the level of capitalized patent activity. The increase in intellectual property expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to higher write-offs of abandoned patent costs. Stock-based compensation Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Cost of revenue $ 182 $ 155 $ 27 17 % Sales and marketing 519 345 174 50 % Research, development and engineering 354 298 56 19 % General and administrative 912 801 111 14 % Intellectual property 70 72 (2 ) (3 )% Total $ 2,037 $ 1,671 $ 366 22 % The increase in stock-based compensation expense for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to timing and amount of stock awards. We anticipate incurring an additional $17,895 in stock-based compensation expense through March 31, 2023 for awards outstanding as of March 31, 2019. 25 Other income, net Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Other income, net $ 237 $ 252 $ (15 ) (6 )% Other income, net (as % of total revenue) 4 % 4 % The decrease in other income, net for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, was primarily due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes for the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 reflects current taxes, deferred taxes, and withholding taxes. The effective tax rates for the three month periods ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 were 0% and 0%, respectively, because we have a full valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance against deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2019 was $44,614, an increase of $2,265 from $42,349 as of December 31, 2018. We continually assess the applicability of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Based upon the positive and negative evidence available as of March 31, 2019, and largely due to the cumulative loss incurred by us over the last several years, which is considered a significant piece of negative evidence when assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, a full valuation allowance is recorded against our deferred tax assets. We will not record tax benefits on any future losses until it is determined that those tax benefits will be realized. All future reversals of the valuation allowance would result in a tax benefit in the period recognized. Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, December 31, 2019 2018 Working capital $ 38,184 $ 45,326 Current ratio (1) 8.6:1 11.5:1 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities $ 37,468 $ 43,656 Long-term marketable securities $ $ Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 37,468 $ 43,656 (1) The current (liquidity) ratio is calculated by dividing total current assets by total current liabilities. The $6.2 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 31, 2019 from December 31, 2018 resulted primarily from: cash used in operations; purchases of common stock related to tax withholding in connection with the vesting of restricted stock; and purchases of property and equipment and capitalized patent costs; partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and trade accounts receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions and at times deposits may exceed insured limits. Marketable securities primarily include commercial paper and corporate notes. Our investment policy requires our portfolio to be invested to ensure that the greater of $3 million or 7% of the invested funds will be available within 30 days notice. 26 Other than cash used for operating needs, which may include short-term marketable securities, our investment policy limits our credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of financial instr ument by limiting the maximum of 5% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities or $1 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one issuer except for the U.S. government, U.S. federal agencies and U.S. backed securities, which hav e no limits, at the time of purchase. Our investment policy also limits our credit exposure by limiting to a maximum of 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, or $15 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one industry category (e.g., financial or energy industries) at the time of purchase. As a result, we believe our credit risk associated with cash and investments to be minimal. A decline in the market value of any security below cost that is deemed to be other-than-t emporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. To determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider whether we have the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price recovery and evidence indicating th at the cost of the investment is recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. There have been no other-than-temporary impairments identified or recorded by us in the three months ended March 31, 2019. Operating Cash Flow The components of operating cash flows were: Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2019 2018 (Decrease) (Decrease) Net loss $ (8,463 ) $ (8,112 ) $ (351 ) (4 )% Non-cash items 2,574 2,197 377 17 % Changes in operating assets and liabilities 435 2,323 (1,888 ) 81 % Net cash used in operating activities $ (5,454 ) $ (3,592 ) $ (1,862 ) (52 )% Cash flows used in operating activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2019 increased by $1.9 million, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, primarily as a result of changes in operating assets and liabilities. The changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to the collection of a $1.75 million upfront license fee received in January 2018. Cash flows provided by investing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, decreased by $8.4 million from $11.2 million to $2.8 million, primarily as a result of lower net maturities of marketable securities. Cash flows from financing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2019, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2018, decreased by $0.4 million from $0.0 million to $0.4 million used, primarily as a result of lower exercise of stock options. Future Cash Expectations We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances will satisfy our projected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We have a $100 million shelf registration statement in place, of which $17.8 million and $12.0 million were allocated for sales of our common stock in connection with our registered direct offerings in June 2017 and November 2017, respectively. This shelf registration statement has $70.2 million remaining for future issuance and expires in June 2020. We may use similar or other financing means to raise working capital in the future, if necessary, to support continued investment in our growth initiatives. We may also raise capital in the future to fund acquisitions and/or investments in complementary businesses, technologies or product lines. If it becomes necessary to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to do so, or if these funds are available, they may not be available on satisfactory terms. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have recorded the operating leases that were disclosed in our 2018 Annual Report upon adoption of ASC 842, Leases , on January 1, 2019. We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. 27 Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. Words such as may, might, plan, should, could, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, project, forecast, estimate, continue, and variations of such terms or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, or other statements made by us, are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting us, and are subject to uncertainties and factors (including those specified below), which are difficult to predict and, in many instances, are beyond our control. As a result, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any such forward-looking statements, and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. We believe that the following factors, among others (including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2018 Annual Report), could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements relating to: concentration of revenue with few customers comprising a large majority of the revenue; revenue trends and expectations, including our belief that international revenue could represent a growing percentage of total revenue in the future; anticipated successful advocacy of our technology by our channel partners; our belief regarding the global deployment of our products; our future level of investment in our business, including investment in research, development and engineering of products and technology, development of our intellectual property, sales growth initiatives and development of new market opportunities; anticipated expenses, costs, margins, provision for income taxes and investment activities in the foreseeable future; our assumptions and expectations related to stock awards; our belief that we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields; anticipated effect of our adoption of accounting pronouncements; our beliefs regarding our critical accounting policies; anticipated revenue to be generated from current contracts, renewals, and as a result of new programs; our estimates, judgements and assumptions related to impairment testing; variability of contracted arrangements; business opportunities that could require that we seek additional financing and our ability to do so; the size and growth of our markets and our assumptions and beliefs related to those markets; the existence of international growth opportunities and our future investment in such opportunities; the sources of our future revenue; our expected short-term and long-term liquidity positions; our capital expenditure and working capital requirements and our ability to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs through cash flow from operations or financing; the effect of computerized trading on our stock price; capital market conditions, our expectations regarding credit risk exposure, interest rate volatility and other limitations on the availability of capital, which could have an impact on our cost of capital and our ability to access the capital markets; our use of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in upcoming quarters and the possibility that our deposits of cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions may exceed insured limits; the adoption of our technology and success of our products, including Digimarc Discover, Digimarc Barcode and Digimarc Guardian; our ability to innovate and enhance our competitive differentiation; 28 our beliefs related to our existing facilities; protection, development and monetization of our intellectual property portfolio; our beliefs related to our relationship with our employees; our beliefs regarding cybersecurity incidents; our beliefs related to certain provisions in our bylaws and articles of incorporation; and our beliefs related to legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the risk factors specified above and the risk factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2018 Annual Report, among others, could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors and that there may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us or by persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Ite m 4.