ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be considered together with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our outlook, key trends and uncertainties, our plans and strategy for our business, and our performance and future success, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. 17 Overview DigitalOcean is a leading cloud computing platform, offering simple, scalable and approachable on-demand cloud and AI services for digital native enterprises around the world. Our platform simplifies cloud computing, enabling our customers to rapidly accelerate innovation and productivity. Our customers include digital native enterprises across numerous industry verticals ranging from gaming to fintech to cybersecurity, among many others, and leverage our platform for a wide variety of use cases, such as building and hosting websites, developing new web and mobile applications, integrating AI into their businesses, and building AI products and applications, among many others. We believe that being simple, scalable and approachable are our key differentiators, driving a broad range of customers around the world whose needs are not being fully met by larger cloud providers to build and grow their businesses on our platform. We offer mission-critical solutions across Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), including our Droplet virtual machines, storage and networking offerings; Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), including our Managed Hosting, Managed Database, Managed Kubernetes and Marketplace offerings; and artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML), including our GPU Droplets, Bare Metal GPUs, and GenAI Platform offerings. We continue to invest in our platform to further penetrate the growing markets in which we operate. We generate revenue primarily from the usage of our cloud computing platform by our customers. We recognize revenue largely based on the customer utilization of our offerings. While our pricing is primarily consumption-based and the majority of our customers use our platform on a month-to-month basis, a growing number of customers are using our platform for larger workloads and some of these customers are opting to enter into committed contracts, committing to a minimum spend on our platform. We serve a large number of customers that range in size from growing or scaled businesses that generate millions of dollars in revenue and serve millions of their own customers to individual developers testing or learning new technology for their own development. Thousands of new users come to DigitalOcean every month with some users intending only to utilize our platform for a discrete task, and other users are part of new or existing businesses that intend to operate their production and test workloads on our platform to support their business. Given the wide range of users and their associated spend, we classify customers based on their spend in a given month, which we have found to be a good proxy that distinguishes between casual users and substantial enterprise customers. We refer to our Builders, Scalers and Scalers+ customers collectively as our Higher Spend Customers (as further described in "Higher Spend Customers" below). Growing our Higher Spend Customers is a critical focus for us, and we have successfully increased the number of these customers and their percentage of our total revenue. Revenue from our Higher Spend Customers as a percentage of total revenue was 88% as of March 31, 2025, up from approximately 87% as of March 31, 2024. We had approximately 171,000 Higher Spend Customers using our platform to build, deploy and scale applications as of March 31, 2025, up from approximately 157,000 as of March 31, 2024. Our average revenue per customer (ARPU, as further described in ARPU below), has increased from $95.13 in the quarter ended March 31, 2024 to $108.56 in the quarter ended March 31, 2025. We had no material customer concentration as our top 25 customers made up approximately 9% and 7% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. Our annual run-rate (ARR, as further described in ARR below), as of March 31, 2025 was $843 million, up from $739 million as of March 31, 2024. We have a highly efficient self-service customer acquisition model, which we complement with a sales force focused on inside sales, targeted outside sales and partnership opportunities to drive revenue growth. The efficiency of our go-to-market model and our focus on the needs of digital native enterprises have enabled us to drive organic growth and establish a truly global customer base across a broad range of industries. We focus on customer acquisition, our self-service acquisition funnel, customer support and success, community education, inside sales, targeted outside sales, and partnership and channel development. For each of the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 our sales and marketing expense was approximately 9% and 10% of our revenue, respectively. Our customers are spread across approximately 190 countries and around two-thirds of our revenue has historically come from customers located outside the United States. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, 37% of our revenue was generated from North America, 28% from Europe, 24% from Asia and 11% from the rest of the world. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Increasing Usage by Our Existing Customers 18 Our existing customer base represents a significant opportunity for further sales expansion through increased usage of our platform and adoption of additional product offerings. We are highly focused on gaining a better understanding of the needs and growth plans of our existing customers, increasing our feature velocity and shaping our product roadmap around the needs of Higher Spend Customers, and introducing an account management function to provide more direct coverage of our top spending accounts. This deeper relationship with our customers will help us identify opportunities to educate our customer base on ways to utilize the platform more effectively for their individual use cases, as well as provide a feedback loop to inform our product roadmap, in order to build trust with customers and encourage them to run more of their critical cloud workloads on our platform. We closely monitor our net dollar retention (NDR), which reflects our ability to retain and grow revenue from our existing customers. NDR increased from 97% during the three months ended March 31, 2024 to 100% during the three months ended March 31, 2025 driven by improved net expansion. We expect to increase our revenue in the future from existing customers through the introduction of new products and features tailored to our Higher Spend Customers through expanded customer outreach, and targeted services to support our customers in migrating additional workloads from other cloud providers to DigitalOcean. Growing Our Base of Higher Spend Customers We believe there is a substantial opportunity to further expand our customer base. We are investing in strategies that we believe will drive adoption by new Higher Spend Customers, including new marketing initiatives that further optimize our self-service revenue funnel to identify potential Higher Spend Customers, enhanced research and development to build our product roadmap around the needs of Higher Spend Customers, the creation of a new migration services team to support migration to our platform from other cloud providers, and a dedicated AI sales team with deep AI expertise to help prospective customers understand our offerings and the process to onboard onto our platform. Investing in Our Platform and Product Offerings We have a history of, and will continue to invest significantly in, delivering innovative products, features and functionality for our Higher Spend Customers. Our product strategy is anchored in addressing the needs of our Higher Spend Customers and other digital native enterprises and on continuously innovating to meet those needs in a simple, scalable and approachable way. We have accelerated the pace of product innovation and made disciplined investments to expand our offerings for our IaaS and PaaS offerings, as well as our newer AI/ML offerings. In 2024, we released a number of new products and product features, including GPU Droplets, our GenAI platform, Autonomous on our Managed Hosting offering to automatically scale resources based on website traffic, and enhancements to our role-based access control functionality and Backups offering. The market opportunity for our services continues to expand and we expect to make additional investments to offer an enhanced and tailored suite of IaaS, PaaS/SaaS and AI/ML offerings that address the changing needs of our customers. Driving Increased Adoption Through Our Community Ecosystem We attract a large number of developers to our website and platform and we are committed to supporting and expanding this community of innovators and technologists by continuing to produce high-quality educational content and hosting developer-focused programs and events around the world. Supporting and educating the developer community is not only one of our values, but it also fosters brand loyalty, expands our customer base and drives increased adoption of our products. Augmenting our Platform though Strategic Partnerships and Acquisitions In addition to organic growth, we believe that strategic partnerships and acquisitions will allow us to accelerate our key platform, product and marketing initiatives. In recent years, we completed acquisitions of Paperspace, which launched our AI/ML offerings, and Cloudways, which added our Managed Hosting offering to our platform. In addition, we have entered into partnerships to augment our product offerings. For example, in 2024, we announced a partnership with Hugging Face, which allows customers to quickly and easily deploy the most popular third-party models on GPU Droplets and significantly simplifies the model deployment process for our customers. We intend to actively pursue both strategic partnerships and acquisitions that we believe will be complementary to our business, accelerate customer acquisition, increase usage of our platform and/or expand our product offerings in our core markets. Macroeconomic Conditions Unfavorable conditions in the economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from trade tension and/or the imposition of trade tariffs (including recent U.S. tariffs imposed or threatened to be imposed and any retaliatory actions taken by other countries), changes in gross domestic product growth, supply chain disruptions, 19 inflationary pressures, interest rates, financial and credit market fluctuations, volatility in the capital markets, liquidity concerns at, and failures of, banks and other financial institutions, international trade relations, political turmoil, political instability and transitions of power in regions where we operate, natural catastrophes, outbreaks of contagious diseases, warfare and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe or elsewhere, including military actions affecting Russia, Ukraine, the Middle East or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in business investments in information technology and negatively affect the growth of our business and our results of operations. While our business model provides some resilience against these factors, we will continue to monitor the direct and indirect impacts of these or similar circumstances on our business and our results of operations, and will take appropriate measures, as necessary, to minimize potential risk exposure. Key Business Metrics We utilize the key metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth, identify trends, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. We are not aware of any uniform standards for calculating these key metrics, and other companies may not calculate similarly titled metrics in a consistent manner, which may hinder comparability. Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Builders(1) 151,097 140,155 Scalers(1) 19,028 16,592 Scalers+(1) 562 444 ARPU $ 108.56 $ 95.13 ARR (in millions)(2) $ 843 $ 739 Net dollar retention rate 100% 97 % ______________ (1)Customer count. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2024, we changed our methodology for calculating customer count and our customer categories. Prior periods have been recast to reflect the effects of the changes. (2)Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2024, we changed our methodology for calculating ARR. Prior periods have been recast to reflect the effects of the change. Higher Spend Customers We refer to our Builders, Scalers and Scalers+ customers collectively as our Higher Spend Customers. We believe the total number of our Higher Spend Customers is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future revenue opportunity, and the trends relating to our Builders, Scalers and Scalers+ is of particular importance to us as these customers comprise a significant majority of our revenue and revenue growth, and are representative of growing digital native enterprises that scale on our platform and use multiple products. We calculate customer count as the average number of customers as of the last day of the month for each month in the most recent quarter. Customers are classified in the following categories based on the amount of their spend in a given month and individual customers may fall within different categories within a reporting period: Builders: users that spend more than $50 and less than or equal to $500 in a month. Scalers: users that spend more than $500 and less than or equal to $8,333 in a month. Scalers+: users that spend more than $8,333 in a month. Users that spend less than or equal to $50 in a given month and have been on our platform for three months or less are considered Testers. Users that spend less than or equal to $50 in a given month and have been on our platform for more than three months are considered Learners. We have not disclosed the number of Testers and Learners on our platform in our regular disclosures since the second quarter of 2022 and fourth quarter of 2024, respectively, since we do not consider these customers to comprise a meaningful part of our customer base or be a good predictor of future growth. 20 ARPU We believe that our average revenue per customer, which we refer to as ARPU, is a strong indication of our ability to acquire new customers with higher spending levels and expand usage of our platform by our existing customers. We calculate ARPU on a monthly basis as our total revenue from Learners, Builders, Scalers and Scalers+ in that period divided by the total number of Learners, Builders, Scalers and Scalers+ customers determined as of the last day of that month. For a quarterly or annual period, ARPU is determined as the weighted average monthly ARPU over such three or 12-month period. ARR Given the recurring nature of our business, we view annual run-rate revenue as an important indicator of our current progress towards meeting our revenue targets and projected growth rate going forward. We calculate ARR by multiplying the revenue for the most recent quarter by four. For our ARR calculations, we include the total revenue from all customers, including Testers, Learners, Builders, Scalers, and Scalers+. Net Dollar Retention Rate Our ability to maintain long-term revenue growth and achieve profitability is dependent on our ability to retain and grow revenue from our existing customers. We have a history of retaining customers for multiple years and in many cases increasing their spend with us over time. To help us measure our performance in this area, we monitor our net dollar retention rate. We calculate net dollar retention rate monthly by starting with the revenue from all customers, including Testers, Learners, Builders, Scalers and Scalers+ for our IaaS and PaaS/SaaS offerings during the corresponding month 12 months prior, or the Prior Period Revenue. We then calculate the revenue from these same customers as of the current month, or the Current Period Revenue, including any expansion and net of any contraction or attrition from these customers over the last 12 months. The calculation also includes revenue from customers that generated revenue before, but not in, the corresponding month 12 months prior, but subsequently generated revenue in the current month and are therefore reflected in the Current Period Revenue. We include this group of re-engaged customers in this calculation because some of our customers use our platform for projects that stop and start over time. We then divide the total Current Period Revenue by the total Prior Period Revenue to arrive at the net dollar retention rate for the relevant month. For a quarterly or annual period, the net dollar retention rate is determined as the average monthly net dollar retention rates over such three or 12-month period. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We offer mission-critical solutions across Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), including our Droplet virtual machines, storage and networking offerings; Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) and Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), including our Managed Hosting, Managed Database, Managed Kubernetes and Marketplace offerings; and artificial intelligence and machine learning (AI/ML), including our GPU Droplets, Bare Metal GPUs, and GenAI Platform offerings. We continue to invest in our platform to further penetrate the growing markets in which we operate. We may offer sales incentives in the form of promotional and referral credits and grant credits to encourage customers to use our services. These types of promotional and referral credits typically expire in two months or less if not used. For credits earned with a purchase, they are recorded as contract liabilities when earned and recognized at the earlier of redemption or expiration. The majority of credits are redeemed in the month they are earned. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees related to operating our data center facilities, personnel costs of our employees providing customer support or operating our facilities, and partnership expenses. Cost of revenue includes depreciation of our data center equipment and amortization of acquired technology and capitalized internal-use software development costs. Data center facility fees include data center rental fees, power costs, maintenance fees, network, bandwidth and ancillary equipment. Personnel costs include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our infrastructure to support our product portfolio and the scalability of our customer base. The level, timing and relative investment in our infrastructure could affect our cost of revenue in the future. Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses 21 Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs including salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs for research and development activities, which are amortized over three years, professional services, software, as well as costs related to our efforts to add new features to our existing offerings, develop new offerings, and ensure the security, performance, and reliability of our global cloud platform. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our platform and product offerings. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our sales and marketing and customer success employees, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, commissions and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include costs for marketing programs, advertising, amortization of acquired customer relationships and professional services. We expect sales and marketing expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we enhance our product offerings and implement new marketing and sales strategies. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our human resources, legal, finance and other administrative functions, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include payment processing fees, provision for expected credit losses, professional services, software, business insurance, depreciation and amortization expenses, rent and facilities costs, acquisition-related compensation, and other administrative costs. General and administrative expenses may increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business. Other Income, net Other income, net consists primarily of interest income on our money market funds, amortization of deferred financing fees on our Convertible Notes, and gains or losses on foreign currency exchange. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense is attributable to the mix of income in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred assets will not be realized. We regularly assess all available evidence, including cumulative historic losses and forecasted earnings. Given our current earnings and anticipated future earnings, we believe that there is a reasonable possibility that sufficient positive evidence may become available in a future period to reach a conclusion that the U.S. valuation allowance will no longer be needed. Release of all, or a portion of, the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and a corresponding decrease to income tax expense in the period the release is recorded. Prior Period Reclassification As indicated in Note 2. in our condensed consolidated financial statements, beginning in the fourth quarter of 2024, we reclassified personnel costs including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation related to our customer support employees, and certain other costs from sales and marketing and research and development to cost of revenue in order to better reflect the cost of supporting our growing customer base, and to improve comparability with peers. As a result, the condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 has been recast to reflect the effects of the changes in cost of revenue, gross profit, sales and marketing, research and development and total operating expenses. There was no change in income from operations, net income attributable to common stockholders or net income per share attributable to common stockholders for the three months ended March 31, 2024 as a result of these reclassifications. The condensed consolidated balance sheets, condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income, condensed consolidated statements of stockholders deficit, and the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows were not affected by changes in the presentation of these costs. 22 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Revenue $ 210,703 $ 184,730 Cost of revenue(1)(2) 81,259 75,582 Gross profit 129,444 109,148 Operating expenses: Research and development(1)(2) 39,594 32,927 Sales and marketing(1)(2) 19,401 18,910 General and administrative(2) 32,807 45,773 Total operating expenses 91,802 97,610 Income from operations 37,642 11,538 Other income, net 3,738 2,717 Income before income taxes 41,380 14,255 Income tax expense (3,176) (116) Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 38,204 $ 14,139 ___________________ (1) Amounts have been recast to reflect the effects of the changes in cost of revenue, research and development and sales and marketing for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Prior Period Reclassification, in our condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. (2) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (in thousands) Cost of revenue(1) $ 1,395 $ 1,376 Research and development(1) 8,269 8,988 Sales and marketing(1) 2,546 3,325 General and administrative 7,222 9,188 Total stock-based compensation $ 19,432 $ 22,877 ___________________ (1) Amounts have been recast to reflect the effects of the changes in cost of revenue, research and development and sales and marketing for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Prior Period Reclassification, in our condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. 23 The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue(1) 39 41 Gross profit 61 59 Operating expenses: Research and development(1) 19 18 Sales and marketing(1) 9 10 General and administrative 16 25 Total operating expenses(2) 44 53 Income from operations(2) 18 6 Other income, net 2 1 Income before income taxes(2) 20 8 Income tax expense (2) Net income attributable to common stockholders 18 % 8 % ___________________ (1)Amounts have been recast to reflect the effects of the changes in cost of revenue, research and development and sales and marketing for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Refer to Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, Prior Period Reclassification, in our condensed consolidated financial statements for further details. (2)May not foot due to rounding. Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 210,703 $ 184,730 $ 25,973 14 % Revenue increased $26.0 million, or 14%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The increase was primarily driven by a 14% increase in ARPU to $108.56 from $95.13, and a 16% increase in revenue from our Higher Spend Customers. The increase in ARPU was primarily driven by continued adoption of our products by our existing customers leading to higher average usage on our platform. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 81,259 $ 75,582 $ 5,677 8 % Cost of revenue increased $5.7 million, or 8%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The change is primarily due to increases of $5.7 million in co-location costs as a result of our data center expansion, $1.1 million in third-party license fees, and $1.0 million in costs related to our revenue share programs, partially offset by decreases of $2.6 million in depreciation and amortization partially due to our change in useful life of servers and related equipment from five years to six years effective October 1, 2024, and $0.3 million in other expenses. Gross profit increased to 61% for the three months ended March 31, 2025 from 59% for the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to an increase in revenue and a net decrease in depreciation and amortization resulting from 24 the change in useful life of servers and related equipment, somewhat offset by an increase in depreciation and amortization associated with our continued investment in AI/ML offerings and our data center expansion. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 39,594 $ 32,927 $ 6,667 20 % Sales and marketing 19,401 18,910 491 3 % General and administrative 32,807 45,773 (12,966) (28 %) Total operating expenses $ 91,802 $ 97,610 $ (5,808) (6 %) Research and development expenses increased $6.7 million, or 20%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The change is primarily due to increases of $3.2 million in personnel costs mainly driven by increased headcount as well as annual merit-based salary increases, $2.6 million in professional services costs, $0.5 million in software costs and $0.4 million in other costs. Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.5 million, or 3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The change is primarily due to increases of $0.5 million in personnel costs and $0.5 million in professional services costs partially offset by decreases of $0.3 million in depreciation and amortization and $0.2 million in advertising expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $13.0 million, or 28%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024. The change is primarily due to decreases of $11.2 million in personnel costs, primarily due to costs incurred in the first quarter of 2024 related to acquisition-related deferred compensation and executive reorganization, including the reversal of stock-based compensation from forfeited RSUs and other related costs, $0.8 million in professional services costs and $1.5 million in other operating expenses. Other Income, net Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other income, net $ 3,738 $ 2,717 $ 1,021 38 % Other income, net increased $1.0 million, or 38%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily due to increases of $2.8 million in gains from foreign currency fluctuations from our operations, partially offset by decreases of $1.6 million due to reduced interest income from our investments. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Income tax expense $ (3,176) $ (116) $ (3,060) 2,638 % Income tax expense increased $3.1 million, or 2,638%, for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily as a result of higher pretax income for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2024 and lower NOL utilization in 2025 compared to 2024. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations since inception primarily with cash flow generated by operations, private offerings of our equity and debt securities, borrowings under our existing credit facility and capital expenditure financings. Cash provided from these sources is used primarily for operating expenses, such as personnel and co-location costs, and capital expenditures, including our investments in AI/ML and other core product offerings. From time to time, we may also use excess cash and/or debt for share repurchases and investments in marketable securities and cash equivalents. 25 We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations and availability under our new 2025 Credit Facility will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements and our outstanding contractual commitments for at least the next 12 months and in the long term. See Note 6. Debt in our condensed consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our new 2025 Credit Facility that we entered into on May 5, 2025, as well as the concurrent termination of our existing 2022 Credit Facility. We have historically repurchased our common stock pursuant to repurchase programs approved by our Board of Directors. In February 2024, our Board of Directors approved an additional repurchase program of up to an aggregate of $140 million of our common stock through fiscal year 2025. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we repurchased and retired 1,564,254 shares of common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $59 million. The program will expire on December 31, 2025. As of March 31, 2025, we had $28.1 million of estimated undiscounted fixed payment obligations for leases of co-location space at data center facilities that have not yet commenced and were not included on the condensed consolidated balance sheets. These leases are expected to commence between April 2025 and August 2025, and have a weighted average lease term of 4.9 years. As of March 31, 2025, we had $360.4 million in cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of cash and money market funds. From time to time, we may seek to retire or purchase our outstanding equity or debt, including the repurchase of our common stock or the Convertible Notes, through cash purchases and/or exchanges for equity securities, in open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases or exchanges, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions, and other factors. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. Further, any such purchases or exchanges may result in us acquiring and retiring a substantial amount of such indebtedness, which could impact the trading liquidity of such indebtedness. We plan to use a portion of the proceeds from our currently undrawn 2025 Credit Facility to repurchase, repay, acquire or otherwise settle a portion of our Convertible Notes. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2025 2024 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 64,090 $ 66,693 Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities (64,975) 46,447 Net cash used in financing activities (67,179) (11,247) (Decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (68,025) 101,827 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from sales to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel costs, co-location costs, payment processing fees, bandwidth and connectivity, server maintenance, software licensing fees, and taxes. Net cash provided by operating activities was $64.1 million and $66.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The change was primarily driven by decreases of $10.5 million in payments for leases, $5.5 million in unfavorable working capital changes, $3.4 million in stock-based compensation, $2.7 million in depreciation and amortization, and $2.6 million in net accretion of discounts and amortization of premiums on investments, partially offset by an increase of $24.1 million in net income attributable to common stockholders. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $65.0 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $46.4 million provided by investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024. The change in cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by a $91.7 million reallocation of our marketable securities portfolio to cash equivalents, and increases of $18.8 million in cash payments for capital expenditures and $1.0 million in purchases of intangible assets. 26 Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $67.2 million and $11.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. The change was primarily due to increases of $50.3 million in repurchases and retirement of our common stock, $3.7 million in proceeds related to the issuance of common stock under our 2021 Plan and $1.9 million in employee payroll taxes paid related to net settlement of equity awards. Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments as compared to those disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024 other than that disclosed under Note 6. Debt, in our condensed consolidated financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as compared to those disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2024. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For information on recently issued accounting pronouncements see Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in our notes to condensed consolidated financial statements included in Part I, Item 1. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data included in this Form 10-Q. NonGAAP Financial Measures To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, we provide investors with non-GAAP financial measures including: (i) adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin and (ii) non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share. These measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Our calculations of each of these measures may differ from the calculations of measures with the same or similar titles by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. Because of these limitations, when evaluating our performance, you should consider each of these non-GAAP financial measures alongside other financial performance measures, including the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and our other GAAP results. A reconciliation of each of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP is set forth below. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin We define adjusted EBITDA as net income attributable to common stockholders, adjusted to exclude depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation, interest expense, acquisition related compensation, acquisition and integration related costs, income tax expense (benefit), restructuring and other charges, restructuring related charges, impairment of certain long-lived assets, interest income and other income, net, revaluation of warrants, loss on extinguishment of debt, release of a VAT reserve, and other charges. We define adjusted EBITDA margin as adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenue. We believe that adjusted EBITDA, when taken together with our GAAP financial results, provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our operating performance and facilitates internal comparisons of our historical operating performance on a more consistent basis by excluding certain items that may not be indicative of our business, results of operations or outlook. In particular, we believe that the use of adjusted EBITDA is helpful to our investors as it is a measure used by management in assessing the health of our business, evaluating our operating performance, and for internal planning and forecasting purposes. Our calculation of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin may differ from the calculations of adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. Because of these limitations, when evaluating our performance, you should consider adjusted EBITDA and adjusted EBITDA margin 27 alongside other financial performance measures, including our net income attributable to common stockholders and other GAAP results. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income attributable to common stockholders, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to adjusted EBITDA for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2025 2024 GAAP Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 38,204 $ 14,139 Adjustments: Depreciation and amortization 29,210 31,887 Stock-based compensation(1) 19,432 22,730 Interest expense 2,208 2,304 Acquisition related compensation 4,530 Acquisition and integration related costs 19 Income tax expense 3,176 116 Restructuring related charges(1)(2) 3,620 Interest income and other income, net(3) (5,946) (5,021) Adjusted EBITDA $ 86,284 $ 74,324 As a percentage of revenue: Net income margin 18 % 8 % Adjusted EBITDA margin 41 % 40 % ___________________ (1)For the three months ended March 31, 2024, non-GAAP stock-based compensation excludes $0.1 million as it is presented in restructuring related charges. (2)For the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily consists of executive reorganization charges. (3)For the three months ended March 31, 2025, primarily consists of interest income from our cash and cash equivalents. For the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily consists of interest and accretion income from our marketable securities. Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted Net Income Per Share We define non-GAAP net income as net income attributable to common stockholders, excluding stock-based compensation, acquisition related compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition and integration related costs, restructuring and other charges, restructuring related charges, impairment of certain long-lived assets, loss on extinguishment of debt, revaluation of warrants, release of a VAT reserve, and other charges. We define non-GAAP diluted net income per share as non-GAAP net income divided by the weighted-average diluted shares outstanding, which includes the potentially dilutive effect of our stock options, RSUs, PRSUs, and Convertible Notes. We believe non-GAAP diluted net income per share provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as this metric generally eliminates the effects of unusual or non-recurring items from period to period for reasons unrelated to overall operating performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of net income attributable to common stockholders, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to non-GAAP net income for each of the periods presented: 28 Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands, except per share amounts) 2025 2024 GAAP Net income attributable to common stockholders $ 38,204 $ 14,139 Stock-based compensation(1) 19,432 22,730 Acquisition related compensation 4,530 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 5,197 5,735 Acquisition and integration related costs 19 Restructuring related charges(1)(2) 3,620 Non-GAAP income tax adjustment(3) (7,384) (8,026) Non-GAAP Net income $ 55,449 $ 42,747 Non-cash charges related to convertible notes(4) $ 1,594 $ 1,586 Non-GAAP Net income used to compute net income per share, diluted $ 57,043 $ 44,333 GAAP Net income per share attributable to common stockholders, diluted $ 0.39 $ 0.15 Stock-based compensation(1) 0.19 0.22 Acquisition related compensation 0.04 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 0.05 0.05 Restructuring related charges(1)(2) 0.03 Non-cash charges related to convertible notes(4) 0.02 0.02 Non-GAAP income tax adjustment(3) (0.08) (0.08) Non-GAAP Net income per share, diluted(5) $ 0.56 $ 0.43 GAAP Weighted-average shares used to compute net income per share, diluted 102,322 93,787 Weighted-average dilutive effect of potentially dilutive securities 8,403 Non-GAAP Weighted-average shares used to compute net income per share, diluted 102,322 102,190 ______________ (1)For the three months ended March 31, 2024, non-GAAP stock-based compensation excludes $0.1 million as it is presented in restructuring related charges. (2)For the three months ended March 31, 2024, primarily consists of executive reorganization charges. (3)For the periods in fiscal year 2025 and 2024, we used a tax rate of 16%, which we believe is a reasonable estimate of our long-term effective tax rate applicable to non-GAAP pre-tax income for each respective year. (4)Consists of non-cash interest expense for amortization of deferred financing fees related to the Convertible Notes. (5)May not foot due to rounding.