ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes and the discussion under the heading Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2022. This discussion, particularly information with respect to our future results of operations or financial condition, business strategy, plans and objectives of management for future operations and the potential impact that the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic may have on our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties as described under the heading Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview DigitalOcean is a leading cloud computing platform offering on-demand infrastructure and platform tools for developers, start-ups and small and medium-sized businesses, or SMBs. We were founded with the guiding principle that the transformative benefits of the cloud should be easy to leverage, broadly accessible, reliable and affordable. Our platform simplifies cloud computing, enabling our customers to rapidly accelerate innovation and increase their productivity and agility. As of March 31, 2022, we had approximately 623,000 individual and business customers using our platform to build, deploy and scale software applications. Our users include software engineers, researchers, data scientists, system administrators, students and hobbyists. Our customers use our platform across numerous industry verticals and for a wide range of use cases, such as web and mobile applications, website hosting, e-commerce, media and gaming, personal web projects, and managed services, among many others. We believe that our focus on simplicity, community, open source and customer support are the four key differentiators of our business, driving a broad range of customers around the world to build their applications on our platform. Improving the developer experience and increasing developer productivity are core to our mission. Our developer cloud platform was designed with simplicity in mind to ensure that software developers can spend less time managing their infrastructure and more time turning their ideas into innovative applications to grow their businesses. Simplicity guides how we design and enhance our easy-to-use-interface, the core capabilities we offer our customers and our approach to predictable and transparent pricing for our solutions. We offer mission-critical infrastructure solutions across compute, storage and networking, and we also enable developers to extend the native capabilities of our cloud with fully managed application, container and database offerings. In just minutes, developers can set up thousands of virtual machines, secure their projects, enable performance monitoring and scale up and down as needed. Our pricing is consumption-based and billed monthly in arrears, making it easy for our customers to track usage on an ongoing basis and optimize their deployments. We generate revenue from the usage of our cloud computing platform by our customers, including but not limited to compute, storage and networking services. We recognize revenue based on the customer utilization of these resources. Our pricing is consumption-based and billed monthly in arrears, making it easy for our customers to track usage on an ongoing basis and optimize their deployments. The pricing for each of our products is available on our website. We have historically generated almost all of our revenue from our efficient self-service customer acquisition model, which we complement with a targeted sales force focused on inside sales, outside sales and partnership opportunities to drive revenue growth. Our model enables customers to get started on our platform very quickly and without the need for assistance. We focus heavily on enabling a self-service, low-friction model that makes it easy for users to try, adopt and use our products. For the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, our sales and marketing expense 20 was approximately 15% and 11% of our revenue, respectively. The efficiency of our go-to-market model and our focus on the needs of the individual and SMB markets have enabled us to drive organic growth and establish a truly global customer base across a broad range of industries. We had approximately 623,000 customers as of March 31, 2022, up from approximately 585,000 as of March 31, 2021. We have a growing number of customers with higher spending levels and these larger customers are expanding their business with us at a faster rate than our overall customer base. We had approximately 102,000 customers paying more than $50 per month as of March 31, 2022, up from approximately 85,000 as of March 31, 2021. Total customer growth for the quarter ended March 31, 2022 was approximately 6% as compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2021, while customers paying more than $50 per month for the quarter ended March 31, 2022 grew 20% as compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2021. Our customers are spread across over 185 countries and approximately two-thirds of our revenue has historically come from customers located outside the United States. For the three months ended March 31, 2022, 38% of our revenue was generated from North America, 29% from Europe, 23% from Asia and 10% from the rest of the world. Revenue from customers paying more than $50 per month as a percentage of total revenue grew from 80% in the quarter ended March 31, 2021 to 84% in the quarter ended March 31, 2022. Our average revenue per customer, or ARPU, has increased significantly from $53.68 in the quarter ended March 31, 2021 to $68.90 in the quarter ended March 31, 2022. We had no material customer concentration as our top 25 customers made up approximately 11% and 10% of our revenue in the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We have experienced strong and predictable growth in recent periods. Our annual run-rate revenue, or ARR, as of March 31, 2022 was $524 million, up from $388 million as of March 31, 2021. ARR as of the end of each month represents total revenue for that month multiplied by 12. Impact of Russia-Ukraine Conflict In February 2022, Russian military forces invaded Ukraine. In response, Ukrainian military personnel and civilians are actively resisting the invasion and a variety of responsive economic sanctions and export controls measures aimed at Russia, Belarus, and certain regions of Ukraine have been imposed by countries and governmental bodies around the world, including the United States and the European Union. These measures prohibit or restrict dealings with certain entities and individuals, including banks and financial institutions, in the target countries and territories. We are committed to conducting our activities in compliance with applicable sanctions laws and regulations issued by countries in which we do business. We do not currently have employees or direct operations in Russia, Belarus or Ukraine, nor do we engage in activities with sanctioned parties; however, certain of our customers conduct business in these countries and regions. Recent sanction measures, including those targeting major Russian banks and financial institutions and the removal of certain Russian banks from the SWIFT messaging system, have impacted our ability to receive payments involving parties located in Russia. As of the three months ended March 31, 2022, aggregate revenue from our customers with business activities in Russia, Belarus and Ukraine was approximately 3.5% of our total revenue. As the situation continues to evolve, further sanctions actions may be forthcoming and could continue to impact the revenues received from certain customers. The full impact of the conflict on our business operations and financial performance remains uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the severity and duration of the conflict and its impact on our customers and third-party providers, as well as regional and global economic conditions. We will continue to monitor and assess the situation and pursue prudent decisions for our team members, customers, and business. For additional information, refer to Part II, Item 1ARisk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance Increasing Importance of Cloud Computing and Developers Our future success depends in large part on the continuing adoption of cloud computing, proliferation of cloud-native start-ups and SMBs and the increasing importance of developers, all of which are driving the adoption of our developer cloud platform. We believe our market opportunity is large and that these factors will continue to drive our growth. We plan to continue to invest significantly in scaling across many organizational functions in order to grow our operations both domestically and internationally to capitalize on these trends. 21 Growing our Customer Base We believe there is a substantial opportunity to further expand our customer base, and our future growth depends, in large part, on our ability to increase the number of customers using our cloud computing platform. We have historically attracted customers by offering a low-friction, self-service cloud platform combined with a highly-efficient self-service marketing model. We are investing in strategies that we believe will continue to drive new customer adoption, especially among SMB customers, such as implementing new marketing initiatives that further optimize our self-service revenue funnel and expanding our go-to market teams in select international locations. Our ability to attract new customers will depend on a number of factors, including our success in recruiting and expanding our sales and marketing organization and competitive dynamics in our target markets. Increasing Usage by Our Existing Customers Our customer base of approximately 623,000 customers represents a significant opportunity for further consumption of our services. There are substantial opportunities to expand revenue within our large customer base through increased usage of our platform as our customers grow their businesses, adoption of additional product offerings and targeted sales initiatives focused on our larger customers. Our consumption-based pricing model makes it frictionless for customers to increase their usage of our platform as they require more compute and storage as they grow and scale. We have also expanded the breadth of our platform offerings and will continue to do so as we have experienced strong adoption of recently developed products. To accelerate this growth across our larger customers, we complement our self-service marketing model with internal go-to-market teams that are specifically focused on expanding our business with our larger customers. Our ability to increase the usage of our platform by existing customers will depend on a number of factors, including our customers satisfaction with our platform and product offerings, competition, pricing and overall changes in our customers spending levels. Enhancing Our Platform and Product Offerings We believe the market opportunity for serving developers, start-ups and SMBs is very large and goes far beyond providing the core IaaS services of compute, storage and networking. We have a history of, and will continue to invest significantly in, developing and delivering innovative products, features and functionality targeted at our core customer base. In addition, while we have not been focused on acquisition opportunities to drive our growth, we may pursue both strategic partnerships and acquisitions that we believe will be complementary to our business, accelerate customer acquisition, increase usage of our platform and/or expand our product offerings in our core markets. Our results of operations may fluctuate as we make these investments to drive usage and take advantage of our expansive market opportunity. Key Business Metrics We utilize the key metrics set forth below to help us evaluate our business and growth, identify trends, formulate financial projections and make strategic decisions. We are not aware of any uniform standards for calculating these key metrics, and other companies may not calculate similarly titled metrics in a consistent manner, which may hinder comparability. Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Customers 622,749 585,466 Customers paying more than $50 per month 102,426 85,154 ARPU $ 68.90 $ 53.68 ARR (in millions) $ 524 $ 388 Net dollar retention rate 117 % 107 % Customers We believe that the number of customers is an important indicator of the growth of our business and future revenue opportunity. We define a customer at the end of any period as a person or entity who has incurred usage in the period and, as a result, has generated an invoice of greater than $0 for that period. We treat each customer that generates an invoice as a unique customer, and a single organization with multiple divisions, segments or subsidiaries may be counted as multiple customers if they separately signed up on our platform. 22 The number and growth of our larger customers is of particular importance to us as these customers represent a significant majority of our revenue and revenue growth, and they are more representative of the SMB customers that grow on our platform and use multiple products. We define customers paying more than $50 per month as customers having generated an invoice of greater than $50 for that period. ARPU We believe that our average revenue per customer, which we refer to as ARPU, is a strong indication of our ability to land new customers with higher spending levels and expand usage of our platform by our existing customers. We calculate ARPU on a monthly basis as our total revenue in that period divided by the number of customers determined as of the last day of that period. For a quarterly or annual period, ARPU is determined as the weighted average monthly ARPU over such three or 12-month period. ARR Given the renewable nature of our business, we view annual run-rate revenue as an important indicator of our current progress towards meeting our revenue targets and projected growth rate going forward. We calculate ARR at a point in time by multiplying the latest monthly periods revenue by 12. Net Dollar Retention Rate Our ability to maintain long-term revenue growth and achieve profitability is dependent on our ability to retain and grow revenue from our existing customers. We have a history of retaining customers for multiple years and in many cases increasing their spend with us over time. To help us measure our performance in this area, we monitor our net dollar retention rate. We calculate net dollar retention rate monthly by starting with the revenue from the cohort of all customers during the corresponding month 12 months prior, or the Prior Period Revenue. We then calculate the revenue from these same customers as of the current month, or the Current Period Revenue, including any expansion and net of any contraction or attrition from these customers over the last 12 months. The calculation also includes revenue from customers that generated revenue before, but not in, the corresponding month 12 months prior, but subsequently generated revenue in the current month and are therefore reflected in the Current Period Revenue. We include this group of re-engaged customers in this calculation because our customers frequently use our platform for projects that stop and start over time. We then divide the total Current Period Revenue by the total Prior Period Revenue to arrive at the net dollar retention rate for the relevant month. For a quarterly or annual period, the net dollar retention rate is determined as the average monthly net dollar retention rates over such three or 12-month period. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We provide cloud computing services, including but not limited to compute, storage and networking, to our customers. We recognize revenue based on the customer utilization of these resources. Customer contracts are primarily month-to-month and do not include any minimum guaranteed quantities or fees. Fees are billed monthly, and payment is typically due upon invoicing. Revenue is recognized net of allowances for credits and any taxes collected from customers, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. We may offer sales incentives in the form of promotional and referral credits and grant credits to encourage customers to use our services. These types of promotional and referral credits typically expire in two months or less if not used. For credits earned with a purchase, they are recorded as contract liabilities when earned and recognized at the earlier of redemption or expiration. The majority of credits are redeemed in the month they are earned. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue consists primarily of fees related to operating in third-party co-location facilities, personnel expenses for those directly supporting our data centers and non-personnel costs, including amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs and depreciation of our data center equipment. Third-party co-location facility costs include data center rental fees, power costs, maintenance fees, network and bandwidth. Personnel expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation. We intend to continue to invest additional resources in our infrastructure to support our product portfolio and scalability of our customer base. The level, timing and relative investment in our infrastructure could affect our cost of revenue in the future. 23 Operating Expenses Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses consist primarily of personnel costs including salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses also include amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs for research and development activities, which are amortized over three years, and professional services, as well as costs related to our efforts to add new features to our existing offerings, develop new offerings, and ensure the security, performance, and reliability of our global cloud platform. We expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to invest in our platform and product offerings. Sales and Marketing Expenses Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our sales, marketing and customer support employees including salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses also include costs for marketing programs, advertising and professional service fees. We expect sales and marketing expenses to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we enhance our product offerings and implement new marketing strategies. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses consist primarily of personnel costs of our human resources, legal, finance, and other administrative functions including salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses also include bad debt expense, software, payment processing fees, business insurance, depreciation and amortization expenses, rent and facilities costs, loss on sublease, and other administrative costs. We expect to incur significant additional legal, accounting and other expenses to support our operations as a public company, including costs associated with our compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We also expect general and administrative expenses to increase in absolute dollars as we continue to grow our business. Other (Income) Expense Other (income) expense consists primarily of interest expense on our existing credit facility and third-party equipment financing, loss on extinguishment of debt, accretion/amortization of premium/discounts of our available-for-sale investments, and gains or losses on foreign currency exchange. Income Tax Expense Income tax expense consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets as we have concluded that it is more likely than not that the deferred assets will not be realized. 24 Results of Operations The following table sets forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Revenue $ 127,327 $ 93,661 Cost of revenue (1) 46,757 39,544 Gross profit 80,570 54,117 Operating expenses: Research and development (1) 37,241 22,402 Sales and marketing (1) 19,044 10,421 General and administrative (1) 37,424 18,040 Total operating expenses 93,709 50,863 (Loss) income from operations (13,139) 3,254 Other (income) expense 1,646 5,597 Loss before income taxes (14,785) (2,343) Income tax expense 3,338 996 Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (18,123) $ (3,339) 25 ___________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 432 $ 196 Research and development 9,720 2,636 Sales and marketing 3,346 1,137 General and administrative 12,483 2,655 Total $ 25,981 $ 6,624 The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of revenue for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue 37 42 Gross profit 63 58 Operating expenses: Research and development 29 24 Sales and marketing 15 11 General and administrative 29 19 Total operating expenses 73 54 (Loss) income from operations (10) 4 Other (income) expense 1 6 Loss before income taxes (11) (2) Income tax expense 3 1 Net loss attributable to common stockholders (14) % (3) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue $ 127,327 $ 93,661 $ 33,666 36 % Revenue increased $33.7 million, or 36%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to a 28% increase in ARPU to $68.90 from $53.68 and an increase of approximately 37,000 customers to approximately 623,000. The increase in ARPU was primarily driven by continued adoption of our products by our customers leading to higher average usage on our platform. 26 Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue $ 46,757 $ 39,544 $ 7,213 18 % Cost of revenue increased $7.2 million, or 18%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to higher co-location costs and depreciation of our network equipment to support the growth in our business. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Research and development $ 37,241 $ 22,402 $ 14,839 66 % Sales and marketing 19,044 10,421 8,623 83 % General and administrative 37,424 18,040 19,384 107 % Total operating expenses $ 93,709 $ 50,863 $ 42,846 84 % Research and development expenses increased $14.8 million, or 66%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation. Sales and marketing expenses increased $8.6 million, or 83%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation, and increases in advertising costs. General and administrative expenses increased $19.4 million, or 107%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to higher personnel costs and stock-based compensation, and increases in bad debt expense, insurance and software licensing fees, partially offset by a decrease in professional service fees. Other (Income) Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other (income) expense $ 1,646 $ 5,597 $ (3,951) (71) % Other (income) expense decreased $4.0 million, or 71%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to lower interest expense due to the payoff of the term loan and notes payable in the first quarter of 2021 and interest income from our marketable securities, partially offset by a loss on extinguishment of debt. Income Tax Expense Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Income tax expense $ 3,338 $ 996 $ 2,342 235 % Income tax expense increased $2.3 million, or 235%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2021, primarily due to income taxes related to international jurisdictions in which we conduct business. 27 Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations since inception primarily with cash flow generated by operations, private offerings of our securities, borrowings under our existing credit facility and capital expenditure financings. In March 2021, we consummated our IPO of 16,500,000 shares of our common stock at an offering price of $47.00 per share resulting in aggregate net proceeds to us of $723.0 million after deducting the underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses payable by us. In November 2021, we issued $1.50 billion aggregate principal amount of our Convertible Notes in a private offering. The Convertible Notes will mature on December 1, 2026, unless earlier converted, redeemed or repurchased. In February 2022, we began our common stock buyback program whereby we can repurchase up to an aggregate of $300.0 million of our common stock throughout fiscal year 2022. During the first quarter of 2022, we repurchased and retired 2.6 million shares of common stock at an average price of $58.20 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $150.0 million. In March 2022, we entered into a third amended and restated credit facility to increase our borrowing capacity from $150.0 million to $250.0 million. As of March 31, 2022, we had not drawn on the credit facility. As of March 31, 2022, we had $464.8 million in cash and cash equivalents and $1.1 billion in marketable securities. Our cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of money market funds and commercial paper. Our marketable securities consist of U.S. treasury securities, commercial debt securities, and commercial paper. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flow from operations, availability under our credit facility, and convertible notes will be sufficient to support working capital and capital expenditure requirements and our outstanding contractual commitments for at least the next 12 months. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 30,283 $ 19,791 Net cash used in investing activities (1,120,955) (23,687) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (157,879) 463,638 (Decrease) increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (1,248,551) 459,742 Operating Activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from sales to our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel costs, data center co-location expenses, marketing expenses, payment processing fees, bandwidth and connectivity, server maintenance and software licensing fees. Net cash provided by operating activities was $30.3 million and $19.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, for which the increases in each year were primarily driven by an increase in cash collections from higher revenues offset by an increase in cash expenses for personnel related costs. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1.1 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to $23.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. The increase was driven by our investment in available-for-sale marketable securities of $1.1 billion and the acquisition of CCS Tricks for $4.0 million. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities of $157.9 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was primarily due to the repurchase and retirement of our common stock for $150 million. Net cash provided by financing activities of $463.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily due to proceeds from our IPO of $723.0 million partially offset by repayments on the credit facility and notes payable of $263.2 million. 28 Contractual Obligations and Commitments There have been no material changes to our obligations under our operating leases and purchase commitments as compared to those disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates and assumptions. Our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies as compared to those disclosed in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, in our Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part I, Item 1 of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. Emerging Growth Company Status We are an emerging growth company, as defined under the JOBS Act. The JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Therefore, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use the extended transition period under the JOBS Act until the earlier of the date we (1) are no longer an emerging growth company or (2) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. NonGAAP Financial Measures To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP, we provide investors with non-GAAP financial measures including: (i) adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin; (ii) non-GAAP income from operations and non-GAAP operating margin; (iii) non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted net income per share; and (iv) free cash flow and free cash flow margin. These measures are presented for supplemental informational purposes only, have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. In particular, free cash flow is not a substitute for cash used in operating activities. Additionally, the utility of free cash flow as a measure of our financial performance and liquidity is further limited as it does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. Our calculations of each of these measures may differ from the calculations of measures with the same or similar titles by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. Because of these limitations, when evaluating our performance, you should consider each of these non-GAAP financial measures alongside other financial performance measures, including the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP and our other GAAP results. A reconciliation of each of our non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP is set forth below. 29 Adjusted Gross Profit and Adjusted Gross Margin We believe adjusted gross profit and adjusted gross margin, when taken together with our GAAP financial results, provides a meaningful assessment of our performance, and is useful for the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts. We define adjusted gross profit as gross profit exclusive of stock-based compensation, amortization of capitalized internal-use software development costs and depreciation of our data center equipment included within Cost of revenue. We exclude stock-based compensation, which is a non-cash item, because we do not consider it indicative of our core operating performance. We exclude depreciation and amortization, which primarily relates to our investments in our data center servers that are long lived assets with an economic life of five years, because it may not reflect our current or future cash spending levels to support our business. While we intend to spend a significant amount on capital expenditures on an absolute basis in the coming years, our capital expenditures as a percentage of revenue has declined significantly and will continue to decline. We define adjusted gross margin as a percentage of adjusted gross profit to revenue. The following table presents a reconciliation of gross profit, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to adjusted gross profit for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2022 2021 Gross profit $ 80,570 $ 54,117 Adjustments: Depreciation and amortization 22,262 19,225 Stock-based compensation 432 196 Adjusted gross profit $ 103,264 $ 73,538 Gross margin 63 % 58 % Adjusted gross margin 81 % 79 % Non-GAAP Income from Operations and Non-GAAP Operating Margin We define non-GAAP income from operations as (Loss) income from operations, excluding stock-based compensation and loss on sublease. Beginning in the second quarter of 2022, we will define non-GAAP income from operations as (Loss) income from operations, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition related costs, loss on sublease, asset impairment, restructuring and severance, and other unusual or non-recurring transactions as they occur. We believe these modifications will assist investors in performing meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and better highlight the results of our ongoing operations. We define non-GAAP operating margin as non-GAAP income from operations as a percentage of revenue. We use non-GAAP income from operations to understand and evaluate our core operating performance and trends and to develop short-term and long-term operating plans. We believe that non-GAAP income from operations facilitates comparison of our operating performance on a consistent basis between periods, and when viewed in combination with our results prepared in accordance with GAAP, helps provide a broader picture of factors and trends affecting our results of operations. The following table presents a reconciliation of (Loss) income from operations, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to Non-GAAP income from operations for each of the periods presented: 30 Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2022 2021 (Loss) income from operations $ (13,139) $ 3,254 Adjustments: Stock-based compensation 25,981 6,624 Loss on sublease 788 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 13,630 $ 9,878 Operating margin (10) % 3 % Non-GAAP operating margin 11 % 11 % Non-GAAP Net Income and Non-GAAP Diluted Net Income Per Share We define non-GAAP net income as Net loss attributable to common stockholders, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition related costs, release of VAT reserve, and loss on sublease. Beginning in the second quarter of 2022, we will define non-GAAP net income (loss) as Net loss attributable to common stockholders, excluding stock-based compensation, amortization of acquired intangibles, acquisition related costs, release of VAT reserve, loss on sublease, loss on extinguishment of debt, asset impairment, restructuring and severance expense, revaluation of warrants, and other unusual or non-recurring transactions as they occur. We believe these modifications will assist investors in performing meaningful comparisons of past, present and future operating results and better highlight the results of our ongoing operations. We define non-GAAP diluted net income per share as non-GAAP net income divided by the weighted-average shares including the dilutive effects of our convertible preferred stock, warrants, stock options, RSUs, PRSUs and Convertible Notes. We believe non-GAAP net income per share provides our management and investors consistency and comparability with our past financial performance and facilitates period-to-period comparisons of operations, as this metric generally eliminates the effects of unusual or non-recurring items from period to period for reasons unrelated to overall operating performance. The following table presents a reconciliation of Net loss attributable to common stockholders, the most directly comparable financial measure stated in accordance with GAAP, to Non-GAAP Net income for each of the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2022 2021 GAAP Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ (18,123) $ (3,339) Stock-based compensation 25,981 6,624 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 462 76 Acquisition related costs (46) Loss on sublease 788 Income tax effects of non-GAAP adjustments (1) 309 135 Non-GAAP net income (2) $ 9,371 $ 3,496 Non-GAAP diluted net income per share (2) $ 0.07 $ 0.03 Weighted-average shares used to compute Non-GAAP diluted net income per share 126,555 103,403 ___________________ (1) The income tax effects of non-GAAP adjustments are calculated based on the applicable statutory tax rate for the relevant jurisdiction, except for those items which are non-taxable or subject to valuation allowances for which the tax expense (benefit) was calculated at 0%. The tax benefit for amortization is calculated in a similar manner as the tax effects of the non-GAAP adjustments. 31 (2) Amounts are attributable for both the common and convertible preferred stockholders, treated as one class of stock. Free Cash Flow and Free Cash Flow Margin Free cash flow is a non-GAAP financial measure that we define as Net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, capitalized internal-use software costs and purchase of intangible assets. Free cash flow margin is calculated as free cash flow divided by total revenue. We believe that free cash flow and free cash flow margin are useful indicators of liquidity that provide information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated from our core operations that, after the purchases of property and equipment, can be used for strategic initiatives, including investing in our business and selectively pursuing acquisitions and strategic investments. We further believe that historical and future trends in free cash flow and free cash flow margin, even if negative, provide useful information about the amount of Net cash provided by operating activities that is available (or not available) to be used for strategic initiatives. For example, if free cash flow is negative, we may need to access cash reserves or other sources of capital to invest in strategic initiatives. One limitation of free cash flow and free cash flow margin is that they do not reflect our future contractual commitments. Additionally, free cash flow does not represent the total increase or decrease in our cash balance for a given period. The following table presents our cash flows for the periods presented and a reconciliation of free cash flow and free cash flow margin to Net cash provided by operating activities the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP: Three Months Ended March 31, (In thousands) 2022 2021 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 30,283 $ 19,791 Adjustments: Capital expenditures - property and equipment (22,976) (22,398) Capital expenditures - internal-use software development (2,276) (1,370) Free cash flow $ 5,031 $ (3,977) As a percentage of revenue: Net cash provided by operating activities 24 % 21 % Free cash flow margin 4 % (4) %