Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, included elsewhere in this Annual Report. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be adversely affected by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. See the summary of our risk factors under the section titled Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements under Part I of this Annual Report. Risks Specific to Our Business Our transformation program and reduction in force may not adequately reduce our operating costs or improve our operating margins or cash flows, may lead to additional workforce attrition and may cause operational disruptions. In October 2024, the Company began a transformation program intended to improve various measures across the organization. These measures include but are not limited to current and future operating expenses, cash flows, and personnel costs. Additionally, the initiatives intend to simplify and streamline business operations, including product optimization, procurement and cost optimization, and team restructuring. The charges and expenditures that we expect to incur in connection with the transformation program and reduction in force, and timing thereof, are subject to a number of assumptions, including local law requirements in various jurisdictions, and we may incur costs that are greater than we currently expect in connection with the transformation program and reduction in force. The transformation program and reduction in force may yield unintended consequences and costs, such as the loss of institutional knowledge and expertise, employee attrition beyond our intended reductions in force, a reduction in morale among our remaining employees, greater-than-anticipated costs incurred in connection with implementing the transformation program and reduction in force and the risk that we may not achieve the benefits from the transformation program and reduction in force to the extent or as quickly as we anticipate, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. These restructuring initiatives could place substantial demands on our management and employees, 10 Table of Contents which could lead to the diversion of our managements and employees attention from other business priorities. In addition, while we eliminated certain positions in connection with the transformation program and reduction in force, certain functions necessary to our reduced operations remain, and we may be unsuccessful in distributing the duties and obligations of departed employees among our remaining employees or to external service providers, which could result in disruptions to our operations. We may also discover that the workforce reductions and other restructuring efforts will make it difficult for us to pursue new opportunities and initiatives and require us to hire qualified replacement personnel, which may require us to incur additional and unanticipated costs and expenses. We may further discover that, despite the implementation of our transformation program and reduction in force, we may require additional capital to continue expanding our business, and we may be unable to obtain such capital on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to successfully accomplish any of the above activities and goals may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a history of net losses, may incur substantial net losses in the future, and may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our transformation program is intended to improve current and future operating expenses, cash flows, and personnel costs. Additionally, the initiatives intend to simplify and streamline business operations, including product optimization, procurement and cost optimization, and team restructuring. As part of the transformation program, we implemented a two phased reduction in our workforce, one in November 2024 and the other in January 2025. The transformation program includes several other initiatives that are underway, and the Company expects the transformation program to be substantially completed by the first quarter of fiscal year 2026. If our transformation program does not improve operating expenses, cash flows, and personnel costs as expected or there are other unexpected operating cost increases, we may continue to incur operating net losses. If our revenue does not increase sufficiently to offset our operating expenses, we will incur losses and may not be able to achieve profitability in the future. If there are delays in the distribution of our products or if we are unable to successfully negotiate with advertisers, application developers, carriers, mobile operators, or OEMs, or if these negotiations cannot occur on a timely basis, we may not be able to generate revenue sufficient to meet the needs of the business. We have a limited operating history for our current portfolio of assets, which may make it difficult to evaluate our business. Evaluation of our business and our prospects must be considered in light of our limited operating history with our combined business following our acquisitions of Appreciate on March 2, 2021, AdColony on April 29, 2021, and Fyber on May 25, 2021, and the risks and uncertainties encountered by companies in our stage of development in the emerging mobile application advertising industry. To continue to grow our business, we must do the following: maintain our current, and develop new, wireless carrier, OEM, application developer, advertiser, and marketplace exchange relationships, in both international and domestic markets; retain or improve our current revenue-sharing arrangements; continue to develop new high-quality products and services that achieve significant market acceptance; continue to develop and upgrade our technology; continue to enhance our information processing systems; execute our business and marketing strategies successfully; respond to competitive developments; address increasing regulatory requirements, including data protection and consumer privacy compliance; and attract, integrate, retain, and motivate qualified talent. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these objectives, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, accomplishing many of these efforts may be costly and these efforts may not yield the anticipated returns, which could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our operations are global in scope, and we face added business, political, regulatory, legal, operational, financial, and economic risks as a result of our international operations and distribution, any of which could increase our costs, hinder our operations and return to growth. We have operations in North America, Germany, Israel, India, South America, Singapore, and Turkey and a sales presence and customers all over the world. We are continuing to adapt to and develop strategies to address global markets, but we cannot assure such efforts will be successful. We expect our business will return to growth in the foreseeable future as we continue to pursue opportunities globally, which will require the dedication of management attention and financial resources. We expect international sales and growth to continue to be an important component of our revenue and operations. Risks affecting our international operations include: challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; the burdens of complying with multiple and conflicting foreign laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in these laws and regulations; higher costs associated with doing business internationally; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; greater fluctuations in sales to customers, end users, and through carriers in developing countries, including longer payment cycles and greater difficulty collecting accounts receivable; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned outside the U.S.; the servicing of regions by many different carriers; imposition of public sector controls, including price controls; political, economic, and social instability; restrictions on the export or import of technology; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local businesses in certain countries; variations in tariffs, quotas, taxes, and other market barriers; the introduction of new or increased import duties or tariffs from a number of different countries; geopolitical actions targeting or addressing international regions or countries, including China; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the U.S. In addition, developing user interfaces that are compatible with other languages or cultures can be expensive. As a result, our ongoing operations efforts may be more costly than we expect. Further, expansion into developing countries subjects us to the effects of regional instability, civil unrest, and hostilities, and could adversely affect us by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. These risks could harm our operations and international expansion efforts, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our financial results could vary significantly from period-to-period and are difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results could vary significantly from period-to-period because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the seasonal nature of advertiser spending. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition, we are not able to accurately predict our future revenue or results of operations. We base our current and future expense levels on our internal operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are to a large extent fixed. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenue, and even a small shortfall in revenue could disproportionately and adversely affect financial results for that quarter. Additionally, individual products and services, and carrier and OEM relationships, represent meaningful portions of our revenue and margins in any quarter, and the loss of one or more could cause a shortfall in revenue that could adversely affect financial results for that quarter. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our results include: the number of new products and services released by us and our competitors; the timing of release of new products and services by us and our competitors, particularly those that may represent a significant portion of revenue in a period; the popularity of new products and services, and products and services released in prior periods; 12 Table of Contents changes in prominence of deck placement for our leading products and those of our competitors; the timing of charges related to impairments of goodwill and intangible assets; changes in pricing policies by us, our competitors, our vendors or our carriers and other distributors; changes in the mix of direct versus indirect advertising sales, which have varying margin profiles; changes in the mix of CPI, CPP, CPA, and license fee sales, which have varying revenue and margin profiles; the seasonality of our industry; fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of overall consumer demand for mobile products and services and digital advertising; changes in advertising budget allocations or marketing strategies; changes to our product, media, customer or channel mix; changes in the economic prospects of advertisers, app developers, or the economy generally, which could alter advertisers or developers spending priorities, or could increase the time or costs required to complete advertising inventory sales; changes in the pricing and availability of advertising inventory through real-time advertising exchanges or in the cost of reaching end consumers through digital advertising; disruptions or outages on our platform; strategic decisions by us or our competitors, such as acquisitions, divestitures, spin-offs, joint ventures, strategic investments or changes in business strategy; our success in entering new geographic markets; decisions by one or more of our partners and/or customers to terminate our business relationship(s); foreign exchange fluctuations; accounting rules governing recognition of revenue; charges associated with impairment of any assets on our balance sheet or changes in our expected estimated useful life of property and equipment and intangible assets; changes in regional or global business, political, macroeconomic and market conditions, including as a result of conflicts, hostilities, changes in interest rates, recessionary fears, global supply constraints, the impact of global instability, domestic and foreign tariffs and other trade protectionist measures and inflation, which may impact the other factors described above; the timing of compensation expense associated with equity compensation grants; and decisions by us to incur additional expenses for product and service development. As a result of these and other factors, including seasonality attributable to the holiday seasons, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts. Our failure to meet market expectations would likely result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. A significant portion of our revenue is currently being derived from a limited number of wireless carriers and customers. If any one of these carriers or customers were to terminate their agreement with us or if they were unable to fulfill their payment obligations, our financial condition and results of operations would suffer. In our ODS business, we rely on wireless carriers and OEMs to distribute our products and services. A significant portion of our ODS business is derived from a limited number of wireless carriers. Our failure to maintain our relationships with these carriers, establish relationships with new carriers, or a loss or change of terms could materially reduce our revenue and thus harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our contracts with advertiser and publisher customers do not generally include long-term obligations requiring them to purchase our services and are cancellable upon short or no notice and without penalty. We have both exclusive and non-exclusive carrier and OEM agreements. Historically, our carrier and OEM agreements have had terms of one or two years with automatic renewal provisions upon expiration of the initial term, absent a contrary notice from either party, but going forward terms in carrier and OEM agreements may vary. In addition, some carrier and OEM agreements provide that the parties can terminate the agreement early and, in some instances, at any time without cause, which could give them the ability to renegotiate economic or other terms. The agreements generally do not obligate the carriers and OEMs to market or distribute any of our products or services. We cannot give any assurance that our advertiser and publisher customers will continue to use our services or that we will be able to replace, in a timely or effective manner, departing customers with new customers that generate comparable revenue. A significant portion of our revenue is also impacted by the level of advertising spend. If advertising spend is 13 Table of Contents lower than our expectations -- a factor over which we have no control as we do not determine our customers advertising budgets -- our revenue will be impacted negatively. From time-to-time, we expect that a limited number of our advertising customers will account for a significant share of our advertising revenue. This customer concentration increases the risk of quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. Our advertiser customers may reduce or terminate their business with us at any time for any reason, including changing economic conditions, changes in their financial condition or other business circumstances. If a large advertising customer representing a substantial portion of our business decided to materially reduce or discontinue its use of our platform, it could cause an immediate and significant decline in our revenue and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. If our goodwill becomes impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually or sooner if an indicator of impairment is present. If such goodwill is deemed impaired, an impairment loss would be recognized. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment, including qualitative and quantitative factors. In estimating the fair value of our reporting units when performing our annual impairment test, or when an indicator of impairment is present, we make estimates and significant judgments about the future cash flows of those reporting units and other estimates including appropriate discount rates. Changes in judgments on these assumptions and estimates, particularly expectations of revenue and cash flow growth rates in future periods and discount rates, could result in goodwill impairment charges. We may be required to record a significant charge in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill is determined, which would negatively affect our results of operations. The effects of the current and any future general downturns in the U.S. and the global economy, including financial market disruptions, could harm the economic health of advertisers and the overall demand for advertising, which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Our business depends on the overall demand for advertising and on the economic health of advertisers that benefit from our platform. Our operating results also may be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions such as the challenges that are currently affecting economic conditions in the U.S. and the global economy, including the conflict in India and Pakistan, Israel, Gaza, Lebanon and Syria, the Russia-Ukraine Conflict, the impact of U.S. - China relations, inflation, changes in interest rates, recessionary fears, global supply constraints, the impact of global instability, and domestic and foreign tariffs and other trade protectionist measures. Such current or future global market uncertainties or downturns and associated macroeconomic conditions may disrupt the operations of our clients and partners and cause advertisers to decrease or pause their advertising budgets, which could reduce spend though our platform and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Recent events, including the U.S. presidential election, have resulted in substantial regulatory uncertainty regarding international trade and trade policy. For example, President Trump and members of the U.S. Congress have called for substantial changes to tax policies, including the possible implementation of a border tax. The Trump administration has also raised the possibility of other initiatives that may affect importation of goods including renegotiation of trade agreements with other countries and the introduction of new or increased import duties or tariffs with respect to products from a number of different countries. The U.S. has imposed or proposed the imposition of new tariffs on products imported into the U.S. from a number of countries, including China, Mexico, Canada and other countries and could propose additional tariffs or increases to those already in place. Due to broad uncertainty regarding the timing, content and extent of any regulatory changes in the U.S. or abroad, we cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have to our business, financial condition and results of operations or that of our clients, partners and advertisers. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition in a number of ways including negatively affecting our profitability and causing our stock price to decline. 14 Table of Contents Our products, services, and systems rely on software that is highly technical, and if it contains errors or viruses, our business could be adversely affected. Our products, services, and systems rely on software, including software developed or maintained internally and/or by third parties, which is highly technical and complex. In addition, our products, services, and systems depend on the ability of such software to transfer, store, retrieve, process, and manage large amounts of data. The software on which we rely has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, or vulnerabilities. Some errors may only be discovered after the code has been released for external or internal use. Errors or other design defects within the software on which we rely may result in a negative experience for customers and marketers who use our products, delay product introductions or enhancements, result in measurement or billing errors, or compromise our ability to protect the data of our users and/or our intellectual property. Any errors, bugs, vulnerabilities, or defects discovered in the software on which we rely could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business may involve the use, transmission, and storage of confidential information and personally identifiable information, and the failure to properly safeguard such information could result in significant reputational harm and monetary damages. We may at times collect, store, process, and transmit information of, or on behalf of, our customers that may include certain types of confidential information that may be considered personal or sensitive and that are subject to laws that apply to data breaches. We intend to take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity, and confidentiality of the information we collect, process, and store, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts to protect this information. If unauthorized disclosure or access occurs, we may need to notify the affected individuals, our business partners, or regulators, as mandated by relevant laws and regulations. Most states have enacted data breach notification laws and, in addition to federal laws that apply to certain types of information, such as financial information, federal legislation has been proposed that would establish broader federal obligations with respect to data breaches. Further, certain foreign countries have adopted laws applicable to personal data and data breaches. We may also be subject to claims of breach of contract for such disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities, and potential claims by persons or business partners whose information was disclosed. The unauthorized disclosure of information may result in the termination of one or more of the commercial relationships with such partner or a reduction in customer confidence and usage of our services. We may also be subject to litigation alleging the improper use, processing, transmission, or storage of confidential information, which could damage our reputation among our current and potential customers, require significant expenditure of capital and other resources, and cause us to lose business and revenue. Our business and reputation are impacted by information technology system failures and network disruptions. We and our products are dependent on complex information technology systems and could be exposed to information technology system failures or network disruptions caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, ransomware or other cybersecurity incidents, or other events or disruptions. System upgrades, redundancy and other continuity measures may be ineffective or inadequate, and our or our vendors business continuity and disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Such failures or disruptions can adversely impact our business by, among other things, preventing access to our online services, interfering with customer transactions or impeding the development of our products. These events could materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. System security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks, and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our expected revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price. Malicious software like ransomware, viruses, and social engineering tactics such as phishing attacks are increasingly common in advertising and mobile app environments. Any successful or attempted security breaches could result in system disruptions, degrade user experiences, and impair our internal operations. Moreover, these incidents could damage our reputation, financial stability, and overall business performance. Despite our efforts to 15 Table of Contents safeguard data and respond to threats, challenges like software bugs, human errors, cyberattacks, or physical breaches may undermine our defenses. Consequently, clients and users may lose confidence in our products, leading to reputational harm and market setbacks. As cyber threats advance in complexity and frequency, they may remain undetected for extended periods. While we have implemented systems and protocols to safeguard our data, user information, and collaborations, and to mitigate risks such as data loss and unauthorized activities, we cannot guarantee absolute security. Despite our efforts, we may not always identify breaches promptly or respond effectively. Therefore, we cannot always ensure the efficacy of our security measures or the success of our remedial actions. The expenses incurred to mitigate cyber or security issues, such as viruses and malware, could be substantial. Despite our efforts, resolving these issues may not always be successful and could lead to service interruptions, delays, or the loss of customers. We handle proprietary and sensitive data related to our operations, and any breaches or accidental disclosures of this information, including due to fraud or deception, could pose significant risks. Such incidents may result in litigation, liability, damage to our brand, or harm to our business and reputation. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations in the United States and internationally concerning cybersecurity and data protection. Some of these laws allow individuals to take legal action against us. Many regions have imposed obligations regarding breach notifications, and our agreements with specific customers or partners may require us to inform them or fulfill other duties in case of a security breach. Individuals affected by breaches or governmental bodies may pursue legal or regulatory measures against us for actual or perceived breaches or unauthorized access or disclosure of data. Our business may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key talent who are in high demand. We depend on the continued contributions of our domestic and international senior management and other key talent. As part of the transformation program, we implemented a two phased reduction in our workforce, one in November 2024 and the other in January 2025. The further loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Because not all of our executive officers and key employees are under employment agreements or are under agreements with short terms, their future employment with the Company is uncertain. Additionally, our workforce is comprised of a relatively small number of employees operating in different countries around the globe who support our existing and potential customers. Given the size and geographic dispersion of our workforce, we could experience challenges with execution as our business matures and expands. Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract, and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, financial, marketing, and creative talent. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, and mobile entertainment companies. Further, we conduct international operations in North America, Germany, Israel, India, South America, Singapore, and Turkey, areas that, similarly to our headquarters region, have high costs of living and consequently high compensation standards and/or intense demand for qualified individuals, which may require us to incur significant costs to attract and retain them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing creative, operational, and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Some of our senior management and other key employees have become, or will soon become, vested and/or under water in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed. Our corporate culture has contributed to our success, and if we cannot maintain this culture, we could lose the innovation, creativity, passion and teamwork that we believe contribute to our success and our business may be harmed. We believe a critical contributor to our success has been our company culture, which we rely on to foster innovation, creativity, a customer-centric focus, passion, teamwork, collaboration and loyalty. We have invested 16 Table of Contents substantial time and resources in building our team within this company culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to ensure employees effectively focus on and pursue our company objectives. As we continue to evolve our business, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our culture, which could limit our ability to innovate and operate effectively. The effects of our transformation program and planned reduction in workforce could make it more difficult to preserve our company culture and could negatively impact employee morale. We plan to continue to review opportunities and possibly make acquisitions, which could require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our business strategy, we have made and intend to continue to review opportunities and possibly make acquisitions to add specialized employees and complementary companies, products, technologies, or distribution channels. In some cases, these acquisitions may be substantial and our ability to acquire and integrate such companies in a successful manner will be challenging. The failure to successfully integrate an acquired business could disrupt operations and divert managements attention. Any acquisitions we announce could be viewed negatively by mobile network operators, users, customers, vendors, marketers, developers, or investors. In addition, we may not successfully evaluate, integrate, or utilize the products, technology, services, operations, or talent we acquire. The integration of acquisitions may require significant time and resources, and we may not manage these integrations successfully. In addition, we may discover liabilities or deficiencies that we did not identify in advance associated with the companies or assets we acquire. The effectiveness of our due diligence with respect to acquisitions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the accuracy and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by the companies we acquire or their representatives. We may also fail to accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction, including accounting charges. We may also incur substantial costs in making acquisitions. We may pay substantial amounts of cash or incur debt to pay for acquisitions, which could adversely affect our liquidity. The incurrence of indebtedness would also result in increased fixed obligations and interest expense, and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. Additionally, we may issue equity securities to pay for acquisitions or to retain the employees of the acquired company, which could increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial results, and result in dilution to our stockholders. In addition, acquisitions may result in our recording of substantial goodwill and amortizable intangible assets on our balance sheet upon closing, which could adversely affect our future financial results and financial condition. These factors related to acquisitions may require significant management attention, disrupt our business, result in dilution to our stockholders, and adversely affect our financial results and financial condition. International acquisitions involve risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Adverse developments affecting the financial services industry, including events or concerns involving liquidity, defaults, or non-performance by financial institutions, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We regularly maintain cash balances at banks and other financial institutions that would exceed any applicable Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance limits. Should events, including limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse developments occur with respect to the banks or other financial institutions that hold our funds, or that affect financial institutions or the financial services industry generally, or concerns or rumors about any events of these kinds or other similar risks, our liquidity may be adversely affected. If any banks or financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our operations may be negatively impacted, including our ability to access cash, cash equivalents or investments. In addition, investor concerns regarding the U.S. or international financial systems could result in less favorable financing terms, including higher interest rates or costs and tighter financial and operating covenants, or systemic limitations on access to credit and liquidity sources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 Table of Contents In addition, if any of our customers, suppliers or other parties with whom we conduct business are unable to access funds pursuant to instruments or lending arrangements with a financial institution, such parties ability to pay their obligations to us could be adversely affected. Entry into new lines of business, and our offering of new products and services, resulting from our investments may result in exposure to new risks. New lines of business, products or services could have a significant impact on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and could reduce our revenues and potentially generate losses. New products and services, or entrance into new markets, may require substantial time, resources and capital, and profitability targets may not be achieved. Entry into new markets entails inherent risks associated with our inexperience, which may result in costly decisions that could harm our profit and operating results. There are material inherent risks and uncertainties associated with offering new products and services, especially when new markets are not fully developed or when the laws and regulations regarding a new product are not mature. Factors outside of our control, such as developing laws and regulations, regulatory orders, competitive product offerings and changes in commercial and consumer demand for products or services may also materially impact the successful implementation of new products or services. Failure to manage these risks, or failure of any product or service offerings to be successful and profitable, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Litigation may harm our business. We are and may in the future become subject to legal proceedings and claims that arise from time to time, such as claims brought by our customers in connection with commercial disputes, employment claims made by our current or former employees, or securities class action litigation suits. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur significant costs and distract our management. Lawsuits by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, customers, vendors, competitors, end-users or others could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies, organizations or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will always be able to resolve such disputes or on terms favorable to us. Carriers and customers have and may try to include us as defendants in suits brought against them by their own customers or third parties. In such cases, the risks and expenses would be similar to those where we are the party directly involved in the litigation. Any litigation or dispute, whether meritorious or not, and whether or not covered by insurance, could harm our reputation, will increase our costs and may divert managements attention, time and resources, which may in turn harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Mobile Advertising Industry The mobile advertising business is an intensely competitive industry, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented mobile app ecosystem composed of divisions of large, well-established companies as well as public and privately-held companies. The large companies in our ecosystem may play multiple different roles given the breadth of their businesses. Our primary competition for media distribution comes from the Google Play application store. Broadly, our media distribution platform faces competition from existing operator solutions built internally, as well as companies providing application and content media products and services, such as: Facebook, Snapchat, Unity (ironSource), WPP, Omnicom, Criteo, QuinStreet, InMobi, Cheetah Mobile, Baidu, Tremor International, Magnite, Brightcove, AppLovin, and others. These companies can be customers for Digital Turbine products, but also competitors in certain cases. Our more material competition is internally developed operator solutions and specific media distribution solutions built in-house by OEMs and wireless carriers. Some of our existing wireless carriers could make a strategic decision to develop their own solutions rather than continue to use our suite of products, which could be a material source of competition. Advertisers typically engage with several advertising platforms and networks to purchase advertisements on mobile devices and apps, looking to optimize their marketing investments. Such advertising platform companies vary in size and include players such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Unity Software, as well as various private companies. Several of these platforms are also our partners and customers. 18 Table of Contents Competitors could also seek to gain market share from us by reducing the prices they charge to advertisers or publishers or by introducing new technology tools for advertisers or developers. Moreover, increased competition for mobile advertising space from developers could result in an increase in the portion of advertiser revenue that we must pay to developers to acquire that advertising space. Our business will suffer to the extent that our developers and advertisers purchase and sell mobile advertising directly from each other or through other companies that are able to become intermediaries between developers and advertisers. Any of these developments would make it more difficult for us to sell our services and could result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, or the loss of market share. The markets for our products and services are rapidly evolving and may decline or experience limited growth, and if we fail to timely release updates and new features and adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changing regulations, or changing customer needs, requirements, or preferences, we may become less competitive. The industry in which we operate is characterized by rapid technological change, new features, tools, solutions and strategies, evolving legal and regulatory requirements, changing customer needs, and a dynamic competitive market. Our future success will depend in large part on the continued growth of our markets and our ability to improve and expand our products and services to respond quickly and effectively to this growth. Wireless network and mobile device technologies are undergoing rapid innovation. New mobile devices with more advanced processors and advanced programming languages continue to be introduced. In addition, networks that enable enhanced features are being developed and deployed. We have no control over the demand for, or success of, these products or technologies. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, the available channels for our products and services may be limited and our market share and operating results may suffer. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies and develop products and services to accommodate evolving industry standards with improved performance and reliability. In addition, the widespread adoption of networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our products and services. We must constantly make investment decisions regarding offerings and technology to meet customer demand and evolving industry standards. We may not achieve the anticipated returns on these investments. If new or existing competitors have more attractive offerings, we may lose customers or customers may decrease their use of our platform. New customer demands, superior competitive offerings, or new industry standards could require us to make unanticipated and costly changes to our platform or business model. We must be able to keep pace with rapid regulatory changes in order to compete successfully in our markets. Our revenue growth depends on our ability to respond to frequently changing data protection regulations, policies, and user and customer demands and expectations, which will require us to incur additional costs to implement. The regulatory landscape in this industry is rapidly shifting, and we may become subject to new regulations that restrict our operations or materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The markets for our products and services could fail to grow significantly or there could be a reduction in demand for our products or services as a result of a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, competing products and services, decreases in spending by current and prospective customers, weakening economic conditions, and other causes. If our markets do not continue to experience growth or if the demand for our products and services decreases, then our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our business is dependent on the continued growth in usage of smartphones, tablets, and other mobile connected devices. Our business depends on the continued proliferation of mobile connected devices, such as smartphones and tablets, which can connect to the internet over a cellular, wireless, or other network, as well as the increased consumption of content through those devices. Consumer usage of these mobile connected devices may be inhibited for a number of reasons, such as: inadequate network infrastructure to support advanced features beyond just mobile web access; users concerns about the security of these devices; 19 Table of Contents inconsistent quality of cellular or wireless connections; unavailability of cost-effective, high-speed Internet service; changes in network carrier pricing plans that charge device users based on the amount of data consumed; and new technology which is not compatible with our products and offerings. For any of these or other reasons, users of mobile connected devices may limit the amount of time they spend on these devices and the number of applications or amount of content they download on these devices. If user adoption of mobile connected devices and consumer consumption of content on those devices do not continue to grow, our total addressable market size may be significantly limited, which could compromise our ability to increase our revenue and our ability to become profitable. Wireless communication technologies are changing rapidly, and we may not be successful in working with these new technologies. Technology changes in the wireless industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of to make our products and services, and other mobile entertainment products, competitive in the market. Further, policy changes or restrictions applied to mobile operating systems might affect our ability to implement our products and services. We usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competitors may be able to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to those of our competitors, less appealing to customers or end users, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within our original development schedule, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce our revenue, increase our development expenses, and harm our reputation. Alternatively, we may increase our product development resources in an attempt either to preserve our product launch schedule or to keep up with our competition. In either case, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be materially affected. The complexity of and incompatibilities among mobile devices may require us to use additional resources for the development of our products and services. To reach large numbers of wireless subscribers, application developers, and wireless carriers, we must support numerous mobile devices and technologies. Keeping pace with the rapid innovation of mobile device technologies together with the continuous introduction of new, and often incompatible, mobile device models by wireless carriers requires us to make continuous investments in product development and maintenance, including talent, technologies, and equipment. In the future, we may be required to make substantial investments in our development if the number of different types of mobile device models continues to proliferate. In addition, as more advanced mobile devices are introduced that enable more complex, feature-rich products and services, we anticipate our product development and maintenance costs will increase. If wireless subscribers do not continue to use their mobile devices to access mobile content and other applications, our business growth and future revenue may be adversely affected. We operate in a developing industry. Our success depends on growth in the number of wireless subscribers who use their mobile devices to access data services we develop and distribute. New or different mobile content applications developed by our current or future competitors may be preferred by subscribers to our offerings. In addition, other mobile platforms may become widespread, and end users may choose to switch to these platforms. If the market for our products and services does not continue to grow or we are unable to acquire new customers or end users, our business growth and future revenue could be adversely affected. If customers or end users switch their advertising or entertainment spending away from the kinds of offerings that we provide, or switch to platforms or distribution where we do not have comparative strengths, our revenue would likely decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would suffer. A shift of technology platform by wireless carriers and mobile device manufacturers could lengthen the development period for our offerings, increase our costs, and cause our offerings to be of lower quality or to be published later than anticipated. Mobile devices require multimedia capabilities enabled by operating systems capable of running applications, products, and services such as ours. Our development resources are concentrated in todays most 20 Table of Contents popular operating systems, and we have experience developing applications for these operating systems. If these operating systems falls out of favor with mobile device manufacturers and wireless carriers and there is a rapid shift to a new technology where we do not have development experience or resources, the development period for our products and services may be lengthened, increasing our costs, and the resulting products and services may be of lower quality and may be published later than anticipated. In such an event, our reputation, business, operating results, and financial condition might suffer. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in mobile devices or wireless networks could adversely affect our revenue. Maintaining the security of mobile devices and wireless networks is critical for our business. There are individuals and groups who develop and deploy viruses and other illicit code or malicious software programs that may attack wireless networks and mobile devices. Security experts have identified computer worm programs that target mobile devices running on certain operating systems. Although these worms have not been widely released and do not present an immediate risk to our business, we believe future threats could lead some end users to reduce or delay future purchases of our products or reduce or delay the use of their mobile devices. Wireless carriers and OEMs may also increase their expenditures on protecting their wireless networks and mobile device products from attack, which could delay adoption of new mobile device models. Any of these activities could adversely affect our revenue and this could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. We may be subject to legal liability (including potential issues with the use of intellectual property) associated with providing mobile and online services. We provide a variety of products and services that enable carriers, manufacturers, application developers, advertisers, and users to engage in various mobile and online activities both domestically and internationally. Laws relating to the liability of providers of these mobile and online services and products for such activities is still unsettled and constantly evolving in the U.S. and internationally. Claims have been threatened and have been brought against us in the past for breaches of contract, copyright or trademark infringement, data privacy regulatory violations, tort, or other theories based on the provision of these products and services. In addition, we have been and may again in the future be subject to domestic or international actions alleging that certain content we have generated or third-party content that we have made available within our services violates laws in domestic and international jurisdictions. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, or content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting, or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, provide, own, or license these products, services, or content. While we routinely insert indemnification provisions into our contracts with these parties, such indemnities to us, when obtainable, may not cover all damages and losses suffered by us and our customers from covered products and services. In addition, recorded reserves and/or insurance coverage may be exceeded by unexpected results from such claims. Defending such actions could be costly and involve significant time and attention of our management and other resources, may result in monetary liabilities or penalties, and may require us to change our business in an adverse manner. Public health issues, such as a major epidemic or pandemic, could adversely affect our business or financial results. The U.S. and other countries have experienced, and may experience in the future, outbreaks of contagious diseases that affect public health and public perception of health risk. In December 2019, a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) emerged and subsequently spread worldwide. A future major epidemic or pandemic could result in foreign, federal, state, and local governments and private entities mandating various restrictions, requiring closure of non-essential businesses and recommendations that people remain at home. Such an event may come with significant uncertainty regarding the extent to which and how long it disrupts the U.S. and/or global economy. Disruption to our business operations as a result of war and hostilities in Israel and other conditions in Israel that affect our operations may limit our ability to develop, produce and sell our products. Our operations and personnel located in Israel may be affected by the ongoing hostilities the region is facing. Accordingly, political, economic, and military conditions in Israel directly affect us. Israel has been and is currently involved in several armed conflicts and is the target of terrorist activity, including from Hezbollah militants in Lebanon, Iranian militia in Syria, and others. While our offices are open worldwide, including in Israel, and, to date, we have not had disruptions to our ability to operate and deliver products to customers, a prolonged war or an escalation of the current conditions in Israel could adversely affect our business. 21 Table of Contents At this time, it is unknown whether hostilities in these regions will escalate into an even larger conflict. We have a significant business presence in Israel, and therefore, continuation or escalation of the conflict could cause significant adverse financial impacts, due to reductions in demand and/or interruptions in business operations. Russias invasion of and ongoing war in Ukraine has caused, and is currently expected to continue to cause, negative effects on geopolitical conditions and the global economy, including financial markets, inflation, and the global supply chain, which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. On February 24, 2022, Russia launched an invasion of Ukraine that has resulted in an ongoing military conflict between the two countries (the Russia-Ukraine Conflict). The Russia-Ukraine Conflict has caused, and is currently expected to continue to cause, political, economic, and social instability, significant disruptions to the regional and the global economy, financial system, international trade, and the transportation and energy sectors, among others. In addition, the Russia-Ukraine Conflict has displaced millions of people, causing an acute refugee crisis in Europe, and has increased the threat of nuclear accidents or attacks, cyberattacks, and further regional or global conflicts (including a potential expansion of the Russia-Ukraine Conflict to other countries as well as other unrelated potential conflicts), among other potentially dire consequences. In response to Russias actions, multiple countries and governing bodies, including the U.S. and the European Union, have put in place global sanctions and other severe restrictions or prohibitions on the activities of certain individuals and businesses connected to Russia and/or Belarus. Companies have also implemented restrictions that severely limit, and in some cases, reverse or cancel, business transactions in or involving certain individuals and/or businesses connected to or associated with Russia and/or Belarus. Further, some companies have moved to divest of Russia-based subsidiaries and assets. In addition, the impacts of the Russia-Ukraine Conflict on the supply chain and commodity prices are expected to be profound and may result in substantial inflation in one or more countries (or globally). The ultimate impact of the Russia-Ukraine Conflict and its effect on the geopolitical environment and global economic and commercial activity and conditions, and on our operations, financial condition, and performance, and the duration and severity of those effects, is impossible to predict. Adverse changes in the geopolitical relationship between the U.S. and China or changes in Chinas economic and regulatory landscape could have an adverse effect on business conditions. Adverse changes in economic and political policies relating to China could have an adverse effect on our business. Recent tariff increases and an escalation of recent trade tensions between the U.S. and China has resulted in trade restrictions that harm our ability to participate in Chinese markets. For example, recently, the U.S. has significantly increased tariffs on products imported into the U.S. from a number of countries, including China. Due to broad uncertainty regarding the timing, content and extent of any regulatory changes in the U.S. or abroad, we cannot predict the impact, if any, that these changes could have to our business, financial condition and results of operations, or that of our advertisers. Further, U.S. export control regulations relating to China have created restrictions with respect to the sale of certain products to Chinese companies and further changes to regulations could result in additional restrictions. Sustained uncertainty about, or worsening of, current global economic conditions and further escalation of trade tensions between the U.S. and its trading partners, especially China, could result in a global economic slowdown and long-term changes to global trade, including retaliatory trade restrictions that further restrict our ability to operate in China. Governmental agencies in any of the countries in which we, our customers or end users are located, such as China, could block access to or require a license for our platform, our website, mobile applications, operating system platforms, application stores or the Internet generally for a number of reasons, including security, confidentiality or regulatory concerns. If companies or governmental entities block, limit or otherwise restrict customers from accessing our platform, or end users from playing games developed or operated on our platform, our business could be harmed. Further, some countries may block data transfers as a result of businesses collecting data within a countrys borders as part of broader privacy-related concerns, which could affect our business. For example, companies and governmental agencies could block the distribution of several applications of Chinese origin. Because we rely on wireless carriers and OEMs to distribute our product and services, if wireless carriers and mobile device manufacturers restrict certain Chinese apps from being downloaded onto their platforms this could negatively impact our business and our financial condition and results of operations would suffer. Any actions and policies adopted by the government of the Peoples Republic of China (PRC), particularly with regard to intellectual property rights and existing cloud-based and Internet restrictions for non-Chinese businesses, or any prolonged slowdown in Chinas economy could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, PRC laws and regulations impose restrictions on foreign ownership of companies that engage in internet, market survey, cloud-based services and other related 22 Table of Contents businesses from time to time. In August 2021, China passed a new data privacy law known as Personal Information Protection Law and Data Security Law, effective November 1, 2021, which adopts a stringent data transfer regime requiring, among other things, data subject consent for certain data transfers. Further, various U.S. federal and state governmental agencies continue to examine the distribution and use of apps developed and/or published by China based companies. In some cases, government agencies have banned certain apps from mobile devices. Further actions by U.S. federal or state governmental agencies or other countries to restrict or ban the distribution of China based apps could negatively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations We are subject to rapidly changing and increasingly stringent laws, contractual obligations, and industry standards relating to data governance, privacy and data security. The restrictions and costs imposed by these legal requirements, or our actual or perceived failure to comply with them, could harm our business. Our platform relies on our ability to process the information of our customers and end users. These activities are regulated by a variety of federal, state, local, and international privacy, data governance, and data security laws and regulations, which have become increasingly stringent in recent years. Most jurisdictions in which we or our customers operate have enacted or are in the process of enacting privacy, data governance, and data security laws and regulations. In this regard, it is important to highlight the European Unions GDPR and the UK GDPR that regulate the processing of personal data in the European Economic Area (EEA) member states and in the UK. Both impose a strict data protection compliance regime. We are subject to the supervision of local data protection and data governance authorities in those EEA and UK jurisdictions where we are established or otherwise subject to the GDPR and the UK GDPR. Fines for certain breaches of the GDPR are significant. In addition to the foregoing, a breach of the GDPR could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, orders to cease or change our processing of personal data, enforcement notices, or assessment notices for a compulsory audit. We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action type litigation, potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, and reputational harm. This private right of action may increase the likelihood of, and risks associated with data breach litigation. In addition to increasing our compliance costs and potential liability, the California Consumer privacy Act (CCPA) created restrictions on sales of personal information that may restrict the disclosure of personal information for advertising purposes. Our advertising business relies, in part, on such disclosure and could be materially and adversely affected by the CCPAs restrictions. Data privacy legislation imposes restrictions on cross-border personal data transfers, with some countries enacting data localization laws. Notably, the GDPR, UK GDPR, and other European and UK data protection statutes generally bar personal data transfer from the EEA, UK, and Switzerland to the U.S. and many other nations, except to entities in countries offering adequate protection or with specific safeguards in place. When transferring personal data outside the EEA or UK to non-adequate countries, we ensure compliance with relevant laws, potentially utilizing derogation or implementing standard contractual clauses. Since November 2023, we have participated in the EU-US Data Privacy Framework (EU-US DPF), UK Extension to the EU-US DPF (UK Extension), and Swiss-US Data Privacy Framework per the US Department of Commerce. We have certified adherence to the EU-US DPF Principles for data received from the EU and UK (including Gibraltar) and to the Swiss-US DPF Principles for data received from Switzerland. Should the DPF be invalidated by the Court of Justice of the European Union (CJEU) in the future, we may face challenges in EU-US data transfers, necessitating the implementation of a CJEU-approved framework. Childrens online privacy has been a focus of recent enforcement activity under longstanding privacy laws as well as privacy and data protection laws enacted in recent years worldwide. With increased enforcement of childrens online privacy in the EU and the UK, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and state attorneys general have also, in recent years, increased enforcement of the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act, and other US State laws that restrict the processing of childrens personal information without a parental consent. We are also subject to Regulation (EU) 2022/2065 (the Digital Services Act, or DSA), effective as of November 2022 and was fully implemented on February 17, 2024, which is a comprehensive piece of legislation for consumer protection. The DSA focuses on content governance and moderation and applies to various online services. The DSA addresses several critical aspects related to online services, including providing a consistent framework for digital services offered in the EU, preventing illegal and harmful online activities, and protecting service recipients fundamental rights. 23 Table of Contents Apart from the requirements of privacy, data governance, and data security laws, we have obligations relating to privacy, data governance and data security under our published policies, contracts, and applicable industry standards. Although we endeavor to comply with these obligations, we may have failed to do so in the past and may be subject to allegations that we have failed to do so or have otherwise processed data improperly. We could be subject to enforcement action or litigation alleging that our methods of data collection or our other data processing practices violate our published policies, federal or state laws prohibiting unfair or deceptive business practices or other privacy laws. In response to the increasing restrictions of global privacy and data security laws, our customers have sought and may continue to seek increasingly stringent contractual assurances regarding our handling of personal information and may adopt internal policies that limit their use of our platform. In addition, privacy advocates and industry groups have regularly proposed, and may propose in the future, self-regulatory standards upon which we may be legally or contractually bound. If we fail to comply with these contractual obligations or standards, we may face substantial contractual liability or fines. Various jurisdictions around the world continue to propose new laws that regulate the privacy, data governance and/or security of certain types of data or information. Complying with these laws, if enacted, would require significant resources, and leave us vulnerable to possible fines and penalties if we are unable to comply. Our obligations under privacy and data security laws, our contracts and applicable industry standards (including requirements by operating system platforms or app stores) are increasing, becoming more complex and changing rapidly, which has increased and may continue to increase the cost and effort required to comply with them. The privacy and data security compliance challenges we and our customers face in the EU, the UK, the U.S., and other jurisdictions may also limit our ability to operate, or offer certain product features, in those jurisdictions, which could reduce demand for our solutions from customers subject to their laws. We may also be required to adapt our solutions to comply with changing regulations. Despite our efforts, we may not be successful in achieving compliance with these rapidly evolving requirements. We could be perceived to be in non-compliance with applicable privacy laws, especially when acquiring new companies and before we have completed our gap analysis and remediation. Any actual or perceived non-compliance could result in litigation and proceedings against us by governmental entities, customers, individuals, or others; fines and civil, criminal, or administrative penalties for us or company officials; obligations to cease offering or to substantially modify our solutions in ways that make them less effective in certain jurisdictions; negative publicity; harm to our brand and reputation and reduced overall demand for our solutions or reduced revenue. Such occurrences could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to anti-bribery, anti-corruption and similar laws and non-compliance with such laws can subject us to criminal penalties or significant fines and harm our business and reputation. We are subject to anti-bribery and similar laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended, the U.S. domestic bribery statute contained in 18 U.S.C. 201, the USA PATRIOT Act, U.S. Travel Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and Proceeds of Crime Act 2002, and possibly other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in countries in which we conduct business. Anti-corruption laws have been enforced with great rigor in recent years and are interpreted broadly. Such laws prohibit companies and their employees and their agents from making or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the private sector. We have operations, deal with carriers, and make sales in countries known to experience corruption, particularly certain emerging countries in Eastern Europe, Latin America, and Asia. Further international expansion may involve more of these countries. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. As we increase our international sales and business, particularly in countries with a low score on the Corruption Perceptions Index, of Transparency International, and increase our use of third parties such as sales agents, distributors, resellers or consultants, our risks under these laws will increase. We adopt appropriate policies and procedures and conduct training, but cannot guarantee that improprieties will not occur. Noncompliance with these laws could subject us to investigations, sanctions, settlements, prosecution, other enforcement actions, disgorgement of profits, significant fines, damages, other civil and criminal penalties or injunctions, suspension and/or debarment from contracting with specified persons, the loss of export privileges, reputational harm, adverse media coverage, and other collateral consequences. Any investigations, actions and/or sanctions could have a material negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to governmental economic sanctions requirements and export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we are not in compliance with applicable laws. 24 Table of Contents As a U.S. company, we are subject to U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations, and we are required to export our technology and services in compliance with those laws and regulations, including the U.S. Export Administration Regulations and economic embargo and trade sanctions programs administered by the Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. U.S. economic sanctions and export control laws and regulations prohibit the shipment of specified products and services to countries, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. While we take precautions to prevent doing any business, directly or indirectly, with countries, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions and to ensure that our technology and services are not exported or used by countries, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions, such measures may be circumvented. Any such violation could result in significant criminal or civil fines, penalties, or other sanctions and repercussions, including reputational harm that could materially adversely impact our business. Complying with export control and sanctions regulations may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of opportunities. In addition, various countries regulate the import of encryption technology, including the imposition of import permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to offer our platform or could limit our customers ability to use our platform in those countries. Changes in our platform or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our platform to international markets or prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our platform globally. Our ability to use our net operating losses, credits, and certain other tax attributes to offset future taxable income or taxes may be subject to certain limitations. As of March 31, 2025, we had net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards for U.S. federal purposes of $122,645, which may be available to offset taxable income in the future. Of these NOLs, $44,812 is subject to expiration through the year 2037 depending on the year the loss was incurred. The remaining $77,833 may be carried forward indefinitely, but are subject to an annual usage limitation of 80% of federal taxable income in any such year as enacted by The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act amendment of Section 172 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the Code), for NOLs generated in tax years beginning on or after January 1, 2018. In addition, under Sections 382 and 383 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change (as defined under Section 382 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations) is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOL carryforwards and certain other tax attributes to offset post-change taxable income or taxes. We may experience future ownership changes that could affect our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards to offset our income. We rely on our current understanding of regional regulatory requirements pertaining to the marketing, advertising, and promotion of our products and services, and any adverse change in such regulations, or a finding that we did not properly understand such regulations, may significantly impact our ability to market, advertise, and promote our products and services and thereby adversely impact our revenue, our operating results, and our financial condition. Some portions of our business rely extensively on marketing, advertising, and promoting our products and services, requiring us to have an understanding of local laws and regulations governing our business. Additionally, we rely on the policies and procedures of wireless carriers and should those change, there could be an adverse impact on our products. In the event we have relied on inaccurate information or advice, and engage in marketing, advertising, or promotional activities that are not permitted, we may be subject to penalties, restricted from engaging in further activities, or altogether prohibited from offering our products and services in a particular territory. Changes in government regulation of the media and wireless communications industries may adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the growth and development of the market for electronic commerce may prompt calls for more stringent consumer protection laws that may impose additional burdens on companies such as ours conducting business through wireless carriers. We anticipate that regulation of our industry will increase and that we will be required to devote legal and other resources to address this regulation. A number of studies have examined the health effects of mobile phone use, and the results of some of the studies have been interpreted as evidence that mobile phone use causes adverse health effects. The establishment of a link between the use of mobile phone services and health problems, or any media reports suggesting such a link, could increase government regulation of, and reduce demand for, mobile phones and, accordingly, the demand for our products and services, and this could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents Government regulation of our marketing methods could restrict our ability to adequately advertise and promote our content, products, and services available in certain jurisdictions. The governments of some countries have sought to regulate the methods and manner in which certain of our products and services may be marketed to potential end-users. Regulation aimed at prohibiting, limiting, or restricting various forms of advertising and promotion we use to market our products and services could also increase our cost of operations or preclude the ability to offer our products and services altogether. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Liability Third parties may obtain and improperly use our intellectual property; and if so, our competitive position may be adversely affected, particularly if we do not, or are unable to, adequately protect our intellectual property rights. Our intellectual property is an essential element of our business. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark, trade secret, patent, and other intellectual property rights. We face risks associated with our trademarks. For example, there is a risk that our international trademark applications may be considered too generic or that the words Digital or Turbine could be separately or compositely trademarked by third parties with competitive products who may try and block our applications or sue us for trademark dilution, which could have adverse effects on our financial status and operations. We also seek to maintain certain intellectual property as trade secrets. The secrecy could be compromised by third parties or by our employees, which could cause us to lose the competitive advantage resulting from these trade secrets. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise to obtain and use our intellectual property. Monitoring unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and enforcing our rights, is difficult and costly, and we cannot be certain the steps we have taken will prevent infringement, piracy, and other unauthorized uses of our intellectual property, particularly internationally where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the U.S., or where our intellectual property is not registered. We may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management and resources. In addition, although we require third parties to sign agreements not to disclose or improperly use our intellectual property, it may still be possible for third parties to obtain and improperly use our intellectual properties without our consent. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement, which may prevent or limit our use of the intellectual property and disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement or initiate proceedings to invalidate our intellectual property, either of which, if successful, could prevent or limit our use of the intellectual property and disrupt the conduct of our business, cause us to pay significant damage awards or require us to pay licensing fees. In the event of a successful claim against us, we might be enjoined from using such intellectual property, we might incur significant licensing fees, and we might be forced to develop alternative technologies. Our failure or inability to develop non-infringing technology or software or to license the infringed or similar technology or software on a timely basis could force us to withdraw products and services from the market or prevent us from introducing new products and services. In addition, even if we are able to license the infringed or similar technology or software, license fees could be substantial and the terms of these licenses could be burdensome, which might adversely affect our operating results. We might also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us might result in substantial monetary liabilities and might materially disrupt the conduct of our business. Our platform contains third-party, open-source software components, which may pose particular risks to our proprietary software, technologies, and solutions in a manner that could negatively affect our business. Our platform contains software modules by third-party authors that are publicly available under open-source licenses, and we expect to use open-source software in the future. While the use and distribution of open-source software is common in the industry, it may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open-source licensors generally do not provide support, warranties, indemnification, or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. To the extent our platform depends on the successful operation of open-source software, any undetected errors or defects in such open-source software could prevent 26 Table of Contents the deployment or impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of new solutions, result in a failure of any of our solutions, and injure our reputation. While our developed software undergoes testing, undetected errors or defects in open-source software could render it vulnerable to breaches or security attacks and make our systems more vulnerable to data breaches. The public availability of such software may make it easier for others to compromise our platform. Some open-source software licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based on the type of open-source software we use or grant other licenses to our intellectual property. If we combine our proprietary software with open-source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open-source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. While our open-source policies are meant to prevent such misuse, there can be no assurances such incidents will not occur. This would allow our competitors to create similar offerings with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of our competitive advantages. Alternatively, to avoid the public release of the affected portions of our source code, we could be required to expend substantial time and resources to re-engineer our software. Although we monitor our use of open-source software to avoid subjecting our platform to conditions we do not intend, there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide or distribute our solutions. From time-to-time, there have been claims challenging the ownership of open-source software against companies that incorporate open-source software into their products or platforms. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open-source software. Moreover, we cannot assure that our processes for controlling our use of open-source software in our platform will be effective. If we are held to have breached or failed to fully comply with all the terms and conditions of an open-source software license, we could face infringement or other liability, or be required to seek costly licenses from third parties to continue providing our solutions on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our solutions, to discontinue or delay the provision of our solutions if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary code, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, damages caused by malicious software, and other losses. In the ordinary course of our business, most of our agreements with carriers, customers, and other distributors include indemnification provisions. In these provisions, we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred in connection with our products and services, including as a result of intellectual property infringement and damages caused by viruses, worms, and other malicious software. The term of these indemnity provisions is generally perpetual after execution of the corresponding agreement, and the maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnification provisions is generally unlimited. Large future indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Capital Structure We have secured and unsecured indebtedness, which the Company will need to be refinancing and which could limit our financial flexibility. As of March 31, 2025, we had $411,000 drawn against the revolving line of credit under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement. As of March 31, 2025, we had unrestricted cash of approximately $39,393 and restricted cash of approximately $691. 27 Table of Contents The Company entered into a Fifth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement on June 13, 2025 to extend the maturity date of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement from April 29, 2026 to August 29, 2026, revise certain covenants and address certain other matters. The Fifth Amendment removed the incremental term loan facility, reduced the amount of the Revolver from $425,000 to $411,000, increased the SOFR and letter of credit fee to 5.5%, and the base rate to 4.5% through August 29, 2025 with increases to 7.5% and 6.5%, respectively, after August 29, 2025, removed the consolidated interest coverage ratio, put in place a decreasing consolidated secured net leverage ratio starting at 5.25 and decreasing to 4.00 on and after June 30, 2026 and an increasing fix charge coverage ratio starting at 1.10 increasing to 1.30 on and after June 30, 2026, requires mandatory prepayments of net cash proceeds from equity issuances and certain other extraordinary receipts, and added certain covenants, including additional monthly reporting obligations, quarterly projections, biweekly 13-week cash flow forecast reporting, and access rights. The Company granted the lenders a security interest in additional assets, including the issued and outstanding equity of certain foreign subsidiaries, including Digital Turbine (EMEA) LTD., Fyber B.V. and Digital Turbine (IL) Ltd. The Company is required to pay an amendment fee equal to $8,220 at closing, $10,275 on September 2, 2025 and $1,027 due and payable at the end of each fiscal quarter (beginning on the fiscal quarter ending on September 30, 2025) until the earlier of maturity and the date the facility is repaid in full. In addition, the Company is required to pay an additional administrative collateral monitoring fee of $2,000 if certain closing deliveries with respect to the additional collateral are not satisfied within the timeframe set forth in the Fifth Amendment. With the Fifth Amendment to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as of June 13, 2025 the revolving commitment has been fully drawn, and the accordion feature was removed. The reduction in available funds could have significant negative consequences including: increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; increasing our exposure to interest rate risk; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; violating a financial covenant, resulting in the indebtedness being due immediately and negatively impacting our liquidity; requiring additional financial covenant measurement consents or default waivers without enhanced financial performance in the short term; requiring the use of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which it competes; and placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors that are larger and may have better access to capital resources. Our borrowings under our credit facility are subject to variable interest rates and thus expose us to interest rate fluctuations, depending on the extent to which we utilize the credit facility. If market interest rates continue to increase, our results of operations could be adversely affected. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also contains a maximum consolidated secured net leverage ratio and other financial covenants. If we fail to satisfy these covenants, the lender may declare a default, which could lead to acceleration of the debts maturity. Any such default would have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and investments in our business will depend upon our future performance and our ability to access capital markets and refinance our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, as well as financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include general and regional economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors such as the U.S. and global economic climate uncertainty, the impact of tariffs, the state of the equity and debt markets and the ability to raise capital in such markets, health epidemics, economic and macro-economic factors like labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, and inflation, and geopolitical developments, including the conflict in Ukraine, the political climate related to China, and the conflict in Israel. We cannot guarantee we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings or capital markets will be available, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, refinance our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement or to fund our other liquidity needs. The collateral pledged to secure our secured debt, consisting of substantially all of our and our U.S. and certain foreign subsidiaries assets, would be available to the secured creditor in a foreclosure, in addition to many other remedies. Accordingly, any adverse change in our ability to service our secured debt could result in an event of default, cross default, and foreclosure or forced sale. Depending on the value of assets, there could be little, if any, assets available for common stockholders in any foreclosure or forced sale. We are currently seeking to refinance the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement before August 29, 2025 and are exploring options to raise additional capital through a new credit facility with new lenders or the sale of 28 Table of Contents equity securities or equity-linked or debt-financing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or equity-linked securities, it may be at a price and on terms and conditions that are less favorable to the Company, and the ownership of our existing stockholders will be diluted. If we raise additional financing by incurring new indebtedness, we may be subject to increased interest rates, increased fixed payment obligations and could also be subject to additional restrictive covenants and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. Any future indebtedness we incur may result in terms that could be less favorable to the Company. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness or enter into equity or equity-linked financing arrangements on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If the Company is unable refinance the existing Amended and Restated Credit Agreement before August 29, 2025, the Companys indebtedness under the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement would be reclassified as short-term debt, which could have a material adverse effect on the Companys business and stock price. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital. The inability to raise capital would adversely affect our ability to achieve our business objectives and our expectations, our liquidity and ability to operate our business, our stock price and our ability to continue as a going concern. To service our debt and fund our other capital requirements, we will require a significant amount of cash and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and investments in our business will depend on our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business, and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, availability of borrowing capacity under our credit facility, and our ability to access capital markets. We cannot ensure we will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings or capital markets will be available in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. We could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional indebtedness or equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to accomplish any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, and you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the current price. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including the risk factors described in this Annual Report and announcements of new products or services by our competitors. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: quarterly variations in our revenue and operating expenses; developments in financial markets, and global or regional economies; announcements of innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time-to-time; significant volatility in the market price and trading volume of technology companies in general and of companies in the digital advertising industry in particular; whether our results of operations and forecasts meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; litigation involving us, our industry, or both; significant sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and changes in accounting principles. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities. If a stockholder were to file any such class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our managements attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation. In addition, employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be harmed. 29 Table of Contents We may choose to raise additional capital to finance the purchase price of acquisitions or to otherwise grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital to grow our business on terms acceptable to us or at all. Should we choose to pursue alternative strategies to grow or enhance our existing business, we may require significant cash outlays and commitments. Our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth or external growth by acquiring complimentary businesses, acquiring or licensing additional brands, or establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. If our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the fair market value of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences, or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business or us. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, our common stock price would likely decline. If analysts cease covering us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not anticipate paying dividends. Our secured and unsecured indebtedness essentially prevents all payments of dividends to our stockholders. Even if such dividends were permitted by the applicable lenders, we have never paid cash or other dividends on our common stock. Subject to the restrictions in our senior credit facility, payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, our capital requirements and financial condition, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. However, the earliest our Board of Directors would likely consider a dividend is if we begin to generate excess cash flow. Our Board of Directors does not intend to declare dividends for the foreseeable future. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, and a failure to meet its reporting and financial obligations, each of which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and prevent fraud. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires us to maintain, evaluate and report on disclosure