Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or the future financial performance of Digimarc that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. See the discussion regarding forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the disclosures made in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed on February 27, 2020 (our 2019 Annual Report), and other reports and filings we have made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to Company, Digimarc, we, our and us refer to Digimarc Corporation. All dollar amounts are in thousands except per share amounts or unless otherwise noted. The percentages within the tables may not sum to 100% due to rounding. Digimarc, Digimarc Barcode and Digimarc Discover are registered trademarks of Digimarc Corporation. Overview Digimarc Corporation, an Oregon corporation incorporated in 2008, enables governments, banks, retailers, consumer brands, and other businesses around the world to automatically and reliably identify and interact with virtually any form of media. We have pioneered the Digimarc Platform, featuring three core functions for the identification, discovery and verification of digitally enhanced media. Digimarc provides objects with an indelible, imperceptible data carrier: Digimarc Barcode. Data in the carrier uniquely identifies the object. The Digimarc Platform also provides software for relevant devices to discover objects (i.e., decode data from that carrier) using Digimarc software, known as Digimarc Discover. Digimarc Verify, a suite of verification and quality control tools, assesses signal quality and validates data at critical stages of production when the Digimarc Barcode is applied to an object. Together, these core functions enable organizations, application developers, and other solution providers to build new features, functionality and additional value on the Digimarc Platform. The Digimarc Platform provides many benefits for connected objects, including: Security: An imperceptible and indestructible digital watermark encoded in the object provides a singularly unique identification, whether in a digital image, video or audio file, on paper or cardboard or etched within material substrates such as plastic and other materials. Among other things, this identification supports strong authentication. Protection: A unique identifier (ID) enables fraud deterrence across many use cases, from preventing barcode swapping and counterfeiting of currency, media and goods to copyright detection of digital images and e-publications. Traceability: The ID can carry serial numbers for easier tracking of individual items or entire lots. This has many uses, from ensuring product legitimacy to preventing product pirating to easily identifying products for recall based on source provenance and sales destination. Sustainability: The ID can contain information specific to packaging content as an aid to broader and more efficient recycling. For example, a microscopic pattern embossed in plastic packaging can identify the materials used and their composition as an aid for sorting and recapture. Similarly, enhanced labels for fresh foods can be used to dynamically adjust pricing and thereby reduce food waste. Engagement: Consumers can directly interact with enhanced objects simply by scanning the item with their smartphones. Brands can share additional product information online including recipes, instructions, information about ingredients and sources, how-to videos, coupons and more. Efficiency: Connected items, reliably scanned by machines and mobile devices, enhance supply chain efficiencies, from parts matching in manufacturing to faster and more accurate inventory scanning and faster and easier front-of-store checkout experiences. 17 Our inventions allow our business partners and customers to provide persistent digital identities for virtually any media content that is digitally processed at some point during its lifecycle. Our technology can be applied to images, video, and audio to s upply a wide range of consumer engagement, media management and security solutions across multiple consumer and government industry sectors . Over the years our enabling software and business processes, and associated intellectual property portfolio , have g rown to encompass many related technologies. We provide our solutions directly and through our business partners. Our inventions provide a powerful element of document security, giving rise to a long-term relationship with a consortium of central banks (the Central Banks), and many leading companies in the information technology industry. We and our business partners have successfully propagated the use of our technology in music, movies, television broadcasts, digital images, e-publications and printed materials. Digimarc Barcodes have been used in these applications to improve media rights and asset management, reduce piracy and counterfeiting losses, improve marketing programs, permit more efficient and effective distribution of valuable media content and enhance consumer entertainment and commercial experiences. Digimarc Barcodes can be used to enhance all forms of media and are generally imperceptible to human senses, but quickly detected by computers, networks or other digital devices like smartphones and tablets. Unlike traditional barcodes and tags, our solution does not require content owners to give up valuable visual space on their media content; nor does it affect the overall layout or aesthetics of their media content. Digimarc Barcodes are generally imperceptible in normal use and do all that visible barcodes do, but perform better. Our Digimarc Discover platform delivers a range of rich media experiences to its readers on their smartphones or tablets across multiple media formats, including print, audio and video. Unique to Digimarc Discover is its seamless multi-modal use of various content identification technologies as needed, including Digimarc Barcode when present. Banknote counterfeit deterrence was the first commercially successful large-scale use of our technologies. Innovations based on our existing technology and experience have been leveraged to create new products to deter counterfeiting and tampering of driver licenses and other government-issued secure credentials. In parallel, our business partners, under patent or technology licenses from us, are delivering solutions to track and monitor the distribution of music, images, television and movies to consumers. In April 2019, Digimarc pledged a commitment to improve the reliability and efficiency of plastic waste sorting. Most notably, Digimarc signed the Ellen MacArthur Foundations New Plastics Economy Global Commitment, which focuses on building a Circular Economy for plastics. Digimarc participated in the Ellen MacArthur Foundations Pioneer Project HolyGrail, where Digimarc Barcode was shown in testing to overcome many current limitations in plastic sorting technology. Digimarc Barcode proved effective in technical trials at more accurately identifying recyclable plastics, which could prevent their unnecessary disposal into landfills or incinerators. In September 2019, Digimarc announced expanded capabilities of the Digimarc Platform with several leading brands employing Digimarc Barcode for packaging and Digimarc Discover software in high-speed inspection systems to catch mislabeling problems before products ship to consumers. Digimarc Barcode provides data redundancy on product packaging without marring the appearance of the design. Consumer brands that use Digimarc Barcode for packaging, combined with high-speed inspection system scanning equipment from Cognex or Datalogic, can improve matching of front and back labels, cartons and lids, and other multi-component packages. In November 2019, Digimarc delivered scan technology to Walmarts Toy Catalog, making it easier than ever for customers to buy gifts or create wish lists for family and friends using the Walmart app. The Scan & Shop powered by Digimarc was prominently promoted in 35 million printed catalogs that were direct mailed as well as available in Walmarts nearly 4,800 U.S. stores. Our intellectual property contains many innovations in digital watermarking, content recognition (sometimes referred to as fingerprinting), digital rights management and related fields. To protect our inventions, we have implemented an extensive intellectual property protection program that relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and nondisclosure agreements and other contracts. As a result, we believe we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields, with over 1,100 U.S. and foreign patents granted and applications pending as of March 31, 2020. We continue to develop and broaden our portfolio in the fields of automatic identification and management technology and related applications and systems. We devote significant resources to developing and protecting our inventions and continuously seek to identify and evaluate potential licensees for our patents. The patents in our portfolio each have a life of approximately 20 years from the effective filing date of the patent, and up to 17 years after the patent has been granted. 18 The market for patent licensing has become more challenging in recent years. As a result, we have shifted our focus from direct monetization through enforce ment and licensing to facilitating progress toward the realization of our vision to enrich everyday living via pervasive, intuitive computing by: encouraging large scale adoption of our technologies by industry leaders; increasing the scale and rate of growth of our products and services business; and laying a foundation for continuing innovation. For a discussion of activities and costs related to our research and development, see Results of Operations Summary Research, development and engineering. COVID-19 Pandemic The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic may pose significant risks to our business. The ongoing public health actions attempting to reduce the spread of COVID-19 are creating and may continue to create significant disruptions to consumer demand, customer and supplier relationships, sales and support processes, and general economic conditions. Accordingly, Company management is evaluating the Companys business operations, communicating with and monitoring the actions of our customers and partners, and reviewing our near-term financial performance as we manage the Company through the uncertainty related to COVID-19 pandemic. We expect that some of our projects with retail customers and partners may be delayed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Delays in these projects could affect our ability to fund our business through near-term revenue growth. To help ensure adequate liquidity during this period and in light of uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company applied for and has received a loan under the U.S. government Paycheck Protection Program. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Detailed information about our critical accounting policies and estimates is set forth in Part III, Item 15 of our 2019 Annual Report (Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules), in Note 1: Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , which is incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 19 Results of Operations The following table presents statements of operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations relate to the three month period ended March 31, 2020, and all changes discussed with respect to such periods reflect changes compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2019. Three Three Months Months Ended Ended March 31, March 31, 2020 2019 Percentages are percent of total revenue Revenue: Service 60 % 67 % Subscription 40 33 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Service 27 29 Subscription 8 9 Total cost of revenue 36 38 Gross profit 64 62 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 85 87 Research, development and engineering 72 71 General and administrative 54 57 Total operating expenses 211 216 Operating loss (146 ) (153 ) Other income, net 2 4 Loss before income taxes (144 ) (149 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes 0 (0 ) Net loss (144 %) (150 %) Summary Total revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2020 increased 9% to $6.2 million, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, primarily as a result of higher subscription revenue from Retail customers. Total operating expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2020 increased 7% to $13.0 million , compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, primarily due to higher headcount and routine annual compensation adjustments for our employees. 20 Revenue Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue: Service $ 3,738 $ 3,814 $ (76 ) (2 )% Subscription 2,451 1,846 605 33 % Total $ 6,189 $ 5,660 $ 529 9 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Service 60 % 67 % Subscription 40 % 33 % Total 100 % 100 % Service . Service revenue consists primarily of revenue earned from the performance of software development services. The majority of service contracts are structured as time and materials agreements. Revenue for services is recognized as the services are performed. Billing for services rendered generally occurs within one month after the services are provided. Service contracts can range from days to several years in length. Our long-term contract with the Central Banks, which accounts for the majority of service revenue, is subject to work plans that are reviewed and agreed upon quarterly. The contract provides for predetermined billing rates, which are adjusted annually to account for cost of living variables, and provides for the reimbursement of third party costs incurred to support the work plans. The decrease in service revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was insignificant. Subscription. Subscription revenue consists primarily of revenue earned from the sale of software products and to a lesser extent the licensing of intellectual property. The majority of subscription contracts are recurring, paid in advance and recognized over the term of the subscription, which is typically one to three years. The increase in subscription revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was due to growth in software subscriptions to Retail customers. Revenue by Geography Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue by geography: Domestic $ 1,759 $ 1,317 $ 442 34 % International 4,430 4,343 87 2 % Total $ 6,189 $ 5,660 $ 529 9 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Domestic 28 % 23 % International 72 % 77 % Total 100 % 100 % The increase in domestic revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to higher subscription revenue, partially offset by lower service revenue, from our domestic customers. The increase in international revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was insignificant. 21 Cost of Revenue Service. Cost of service revenue primarily includes: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of our software developers, quality assurance personnel, design professionals, product managers, business development managers and other personnel where we bill our customers for time and materials costs; payments to outside contractors that are billed to customers; charges for equipment directly used by customers; depreciation for machinery, equipment and software directly used by customers; and travel costs directly attributable to software development contracts. Subscription . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes: cost of outside contractors that provide operational support for our subscription products; Internet service provider connectivity charges and image search data fees to support our subscription products; and amortization of capitalized patent costs and patent maintenance fees. Gross Profit Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Gross Profit: Service $ 2,054 $ 2,169 $ (115 ) (5 )% Subscription 1,937 1,357 580 43 % Total $ 3,991 $ 3,526 $ 465 13 % Gross Profit (as % of related revenue components): Service 55 % 57 % Subscription 79 % 74 % Total 64 % 62 % The increase in total gross profit for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to higher subscription revenue. The decrease in service gross profit as a percentage of service revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to the mix of labor versus non-labor costs. The increase in subscription gross profit as a percentage of subscription revenue for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to higher subscription revenue. 22 Operating Expense s Sales and marketing Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Sales and marketing $ 5,246 $ 4,950 $ 296 6 % Sales and marketing (as % of total revenue) 85 % 87 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of sales and marketing employees and product managers; travel and market research costs, and costs associated with marketing programs, such as trade shows, public relations and new product launches; professional services and outside contractor costs for product and marketing initiatives; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to increased headcount and routine annual compensation adjustments for our employees. Research, development and engineering Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Research, development and engineering $ 4,433 $ 4,038 $ 395 10 % Research, development and engineering (as % of total revenue) 72 % 71 % Research, development and engineering expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of software and hardware developers and quality assurance personnel; payments to outside contractors; the purchase of materials and services for product development; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in research, development and engineering expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to increased headcount and routine annual compensation adjustments for our employees. 23 General and administrative Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) General and administrative $ 3,367 $ 3,210 $ 157 5 % General and administrative (as % of total revenue) 54 % 57 % We incur general and administrative costs in the functional areas of finance, legal, human resources, intellectual property, executive and board of directors. Costs for facilities and information technology are also managed as part of the general and administrative processes and are allocated to this area as well as each of the areas in cost of revenue, sales and marketing and research, development and engineering. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of general and administrative personnel; third party and professional fees associated with legal, accounting and human resources functions; costs associated with being a public company; third party costs, including filing and governmental regulatory fees and fees for outside legal counsel and translation costs, related to the filing and maintenance of our intellectual property; charges to write off previously capitalized patent costs for patent assets we abandon; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to increased headcount and routine annual compensation adjustments for our employees. Stock-based compensation Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Cost of revenue $ 190 $ 182 $ 8 4 % Sales and marketing 479 519 (40 ) (8 )% Research, development and engineering 399 354 45 13 % General and administrative 1,127 982 145 15 % Total $ 2,195 $ 2,037 $ 158 8 % The changes in stock-based compensation expense for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, were primarily due to more stock awards granted in the current year than prior years. We anticipate incurring an additional $17,641 in stock-based compensation expense through March 31, 2024, for awards outstanding as of March 31, 2020. 24 Other income, net Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Other income, net $ 142 $ 237 $ (95 ) (40 )% Other income, net (as % of total revenue) 2 % 4 % The decrease in other income, net for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, was primarily due to lower interest income as a result of lower interest rates and lower investment balances . Income Taxes The provision for income taxes reflects current taxes, deferred taxes, and withholding taxes. The effective tax rate for each of the three month periods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 was 0% because we have a full valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance against deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2020, was $50,145, an increase of $2,336 from $47,809 as of December 31, 2019. We continually assess the applicability of a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Based upon the positive and negative evidence available as of March 31, 2020, and largely due to the cumulative loss incurred by us over the last several years, which is considered a significant piece of negative evidence when assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, a full valuation allowance is recorded against our deferred tax assets. We will not record tax benefits on any future losses until it is determined that those tax benefits will be realized. All future reversals of the valuation allowance would result in a tax benefit in the period recognized. Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, December 31, 2020 2019 Working capital $ 31,283 $ 37,850 Current ratio (1) 6.8:1 8.0:1 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities $ 30,570 $ 36,817 Long-term marketable securities $ $ Total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 30,570 $ 36,817 (1) The current (liquidity) ratio is calculated by dividing total current assets by total current liabilities. The $6,247 decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities at March 31, 2020, from December 31, 2019, resulted primarily from: cash used in operations; purchases of common stock related to tax withholding in connection with the vesting of restricted stock; and purchases of property and equipment and capitalized patent costs; partially offset by net proceeds from the issuance of common stock; and proceeds from stock option exercises. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and trade accounts receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions and at times deposits may exceed insured limits. Marketable securities primarily include commercial paper and corporate notes. Our investment policy requires our portfolio to be invested to ensure that the greater of $3,000 or 7% of the invested funds will be available within 30 days notice. 25 Other than cash used for operating needs, which may include short-term marketable securities, our investment policy limi ts our credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of financial instrument by limiting the maximum of 5% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities or $1 ,000 , whichever is greater, to be invested in any one issuer except for th e U.S. government, U.S. federal agencies and U.S. backed securities, which have no limits, at the time of purchase. Our investment policy also limits our credit exposure by limiting to a maximum of 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securi ties, or $15 ,000 , whichever is greater, to be invested in any one industry category (e.g., financial or energy industries) at the time of purchase. As a result, we believe our credit risk associated with cash and investments to be minimal. A decline in the market value of any security below cost that is deemed to be other-than-temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. To determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider whether we have the ability and intent to ho ld the investment until a market price recovery and evidence indicating that the cost of the investment is recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. There have been no other-than-temporary impairments identified or recorded by us in the three month p eriods ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 . Operating Cash Flow The components of operating cash flows were: Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2020 2019 (Decrease) (Decrease) Net loss $ (8,908 ) $ (8,463 ) $ (445 ) (5 )% Non-cash items 2,770 2,574 196 8 % Changes in operating assets and liabilities 292 435 (143 ) (33 )% Net cash used in operating activities $ (5,846 ) $ (5,454 ) $ (392 ) (7 )% Cash flows used in operating activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, increased by $392, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, primarily as a result of a higher net loss, partially offset by higher non-cash items. The increase in non-cash items was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation. Cash flows provided by investing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, increased by $2,074 from $2,838 to $4,912, primarily as a result of higher net maturities of marketable securities. Cash flows used in financing activities for the three month period ended March 31, 2020, compared to the corresponding three month period ended March 31, 2019, decreased by $358 from $387 to $29, primarily as a result of the issuance of our common stock, partially offset by higher purchases of our common stock due to a higher share price and more shares required to be purchased in satisfaction of required withholding tax liability in connection with the vesting of restricted shares. Future Cash Expectations We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances will satisfy our projected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. In May 2019, we entered into an Equity Distribution Agreement, whereby we may sell from time to time through Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, as our sales agent, our common stock having an aggregate offering price of up to $30 million. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC will receive from us a commission equal to 2.50% of the gross sales price per share of common stock for shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $10 million, and a commission of 2.25% of the gross sales price per share of common stock thereafter, for shares sold under the Equity Distribution Agreement. As of March 31, 2020, we had sold 364 thousand shares at an average price of $57.64 under this Equity Distribution Agreement, totaling $21.0 million of cash proceeds, less $0.5 million of commissions and $0.3 million of stock issuance costs, for net cash proceeds of $20.2 million. We have a $100 million shelf registration statement in place, of which $17.8 million and $12.0 million were allocated for sales of our common stock in connection with our registered direct offerings in June 2017 and November 2017, respectively. We have also allocated up to $30 million of the shelf registration statement for the sale of our common stock under the Equity Distribution Agreement with Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, of which $21.0 million has been sold. As of March 31, 2020, $49.2 million remains available for future issuances under this shelf registration statement, which expires in June 2020. We may sell shares under the Equity Distribution Agreement and/or use similar or other financing means to raise working capital in the future, if necessary, to support continued investment in our growth initiatives. We may also raise capital in the future to fund acquisitions and/or investments in complementary businesses, technologies or product lines. If it becomes necessary to obtain 26 addit ional financing, we may not be able to do so, or if these funds are available, they may not be available on satisfactory terms. The COVID-19 pandemic has created substantial uncertainty and volatility in the stock market, particularly in the small cap sect or in which our stock is traded, and has negatively impacted our share price. These factors may inhibit our near-term ability to obtain financing through the sale of shares under the Equity Distribution Agreement. After the end of the quarter, as described below, we received a loan pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program that will give us more time to observe financial market trends and assess the effects of the pandemic on our prospects to determine the best course of action concerning financing the bu siness. COVID-19 Pandemic We are continuously reviewing our liquidity and anticipated capital requirements in light of the uncertainty created by the COVID-19 pandemic. As described in Part I, Item 1, Note 14 Subsequent Events, to help ensure adequate liquidity during this period and in light of uncertainties posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company entered into a loan with Stearns Bank, N.A. on April 16, 2020 (the Loan), pursuant to the Paycheck Protection Program (the PPP) under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act. The Loan has an aggregate principal amount of $5,032. Subject to the terms and limitations of the PPP, the Loan may be forgiven in whole or in part. Our intent is that the entire loan amount will be used to fund our payroll, rent and utilities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to investors. We are party to an operating lease for our corporate office in Beaverton, Oregon. In July 2015, we entered into an amendment with the landlord of our corporate office in Beaverton, Oregon, to extend the lease term through March 2024, with remaining rent payments totaling $3.3 million, payable in monthly installments. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. Words such as may, might, plan, should, could, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, project, forecast, estimate, continue, and variations of such terms or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, or other statements made by us, are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting us, and are subject to uncertainties and factors (including those specified below), which are difficult to predict and, in many instances, are beyond our control. As a result, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any such forward-looking statements, and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. We believe that the following factors, among others (including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2019 Annual Report), could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements relating to: our beliefs regarding the possible effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on general economic conditions, public health, and consumer demand, and the Companys results of operations, liquidity, capital resources, and general performance in the future; the possible impact of COVID-19 on our ability to obtain financing through our Equity Distribution Agreement and the availability of any alternative sources of financing; our expectations regarding the use of funds from the Companys PPP Loan and the potential for forgiveness of the PPP Loan under the terms of the PPP; the potential impact of COVID-19 on projects with our retail customers and partners; concentration of revenue with few customers comprising a large majority of the revenue; revenue trends and expectations; anticipated successful advocacy of our technology by our partners; our belief regarding the global deployment of our products; 27 our future level of investment in our business, including investment in research, development and engineering of products and technology, development of our intellectual property, sales growth initiatives and development of new market opportunities; anticipated expenses, costs, margins, provision for income taxes and investment activities in the foreseeable future; our assumptions and expectations related to stock awards; our belief that we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields; our beliefs regarding our critical accounting policies; our expectations regarding the impact of accounting pronouncements issued but not yet adopted; anticipated revenue to be generated from current contracts, renewals, and as a result of new programs; our estimates, judgements and assumptions related to impairment testing; variability of contracted arrangements; business opportunities that could require that we seek additional financing and our ability to do so; the size and growth of our markets and our assumptions and beliefs related to those markets; the existence of international growth opportunities and our future investment in such opportunities; the sources of our future revenue; our expected short-term and long-term liquidity positions; our capital expenditure and working capital requirements and our ability to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs through cash flow from operations or financing; the effect of computerized trading on our stock price; capital market conditions, our expectations regarding credit risk exposure, interest rate volatility and other limitations on the availability of capital, which could have an impact on our cost of capital and our ability to access the capital markets; our use of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in upcoming quarters and the possibility that our deposits of cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions may exceed insured limits; the adoption of our technology and success of our products; our ability to innovate and enhance our competitive differentiation; our beliefs related to our existing facilities; protection, development and monetization of our intellectual property portfolio; our beliefs related to our relationship with our employees; our beliefs regarding cybersecurity incidents; our beliefs related to certain provisions in our bylaws and articles of incorporation; and our beliefs related to legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the risk factors specified above and the risk factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2019 Annual Report , among others, could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors and that there may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us or by persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 28