Item 7 Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Form 10-K are in thousands. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview Digital Turbine, Inc., through its subsidiaries (collectively "Digital Turbine" or the "Company"), is a leading, independent mobile growth platform that levels up the landscape for advertisers, publishers, carriers, and device original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs"). The Company offers end-to-end products and solutions leveraging proprietary technology to all participants in the mobile application ecosystem, enabling brand discovery and advertising, user acquisition and engagement, and operational efficiency for advertisers. In addition, our products and solutions provide monetization opportunities for OEMs, carriers, and application ("app" or "apps") publishers and developers. Recent Acquisitions The Company recently completed the acquisitions of Appreciate, AdColony Holding AS ("AdColony"), and Fyber, N.V. ("Fyber") to execute on its expressed strategy of becoming a leading end-to-end solution for mobile brand acquisition, advertising, and monetization. The following is a summary of each of those acquisitions: Appreciate: On March 1, 2021, Digital Turbine, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Digital Turbine (EMEA) Ltd. ("DT EMEA"), an Israeli company, entered into a Share Purchase Agreement with Triapodi Ltd., an Israeli company (d/b/a Appreciate) (Appreciate), the stockholder representative, and the stockholders of Appreciate, pursuant to which DT EMEA acquired, on March 2, 2021, all of the outstanding capital stock of Appreciate in exchange for total consideration of $20,003 in cash (the "Appreciate Acquisition"). Under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, DT EMEA entered into bonus arrangements to pay up to $6,000 in retention bonuses and performance bonuses to the founders and certain other employees of Appreciate. None of the goodwill recognized was deductible for tax purposes. The acquisition of Appreciate delivered valuable deep ad-tech and algorithmic expertise to help Digital Turbine execute on its broader, longer-term vision. Deploying Appreciate's technology expertise across Digital Turbines global scale and reach should further benefit partners and advertisers that are a part of the combined Companys platform. 5 AdColony: On April 29, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of AdColony Holding AS, a Norway company (AdColony), pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement (the "AdColony Acquisition"). The Company acquired all outstanding capital stock of AdColony in exchange for an estimated total consideration in the range of $400,000 to $425,000, including an estimated earn-out in the range of $200,000 to $225,000, to be paid in cash, based on AdColony achieving certain future target net revenue, less associated cost of goods sold (as such term is referenced in the Share Purchase Agreement), over a 12-month period ending on December 31, 2021 (the Earn-Out Period). Under the terms of the earn-out, the Company would pay the seller a certain percentage of actual net revenue (less associated cost of goods sold, as such term is referenced in the Share Purchase Agreement) of AdColony, depending on the extent to which AdColony achieves certain target net revenue (less associated cost of goods sold, as such term is referenced in the Share Purchase Agreement) over the Earn-Out Period. The earn-out payment will be made following the expiration of the Earn-Out Period. On August 27, 2021, the Company entered into an Amendment to Share Purchase Agreement (the Amendment Agreement) with AdColony and Otello Corporation ASA, a Norway company (Otello) and AdColony's previous parent company. Pursuant to the Amendment Agreement, the Company and Otello agreed to set a fixed dollar amount of $204,500 for the earn-out payment obligation, to set January 15, 2022, as the payment due date for such payment amount, and to eliminate all of the Companys earn-out support obligations under the Share Purchase Agreement. AdColony is a leading mobile advertising platform servicing advertisers and publishers. AdColonys proprietary video technologies and rich media formats are widely viewed as a best-in-class technology delivering third-party verified viewability rates for well-known global brands. With the addition of AdColony, the Company expanded its collective experience, reach, and suite of capabilities to benefit mobile advertisers and publishers around the globe. Performance-based spending trends by large, established brand advertisers present material upside opportunities for platforms with unique technology deployable across exclusive access to inventory. Fyber: On May 25, 2021, the Company completed the initial closing of the acquisition of at least 95.1% of the outstanding voting shares (the Majority Fyber Shares) of Fyber N.V. (Fyber) pursuant to a Sale and Purchase Agreement (the "Fyber Acquisition") between Tennor Holding B.V., Advert Finance B.V., and Lars Windhorst (collectively, the Seller), the Company, and Digital Turbine Luxembourg S.ar.l., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. The remaining outstanding shares in Fyber (the Minority Fyber Shares) were (to the Company's knowledge) widely held by other shareholders of Fyber (the Minority Fyber Shareholders) and are presented as non-controlling interests within the Company's consolidated financial statements. Fyber is a leading mobile advertising monetization platform empowering global app developers to optimize profitability through quality advertising. Fybers proprietary technology platform and expertise in mediation, real-time bidding, advanced analytics tools, and video combine to deliver publishers and advertisers a highly valuable app monetization solution. Fyber represents an important and strategic addition for the Company in its mission to develop one of the largest full-stack, fully independent, mobile advertising solutions in the industry. The combined platform offering is advantageously positioned to leverage the Companys existing on-device software presence and global distribution footprint. The Comp any acquired Fyber in exchange for an estimated aggregate consideration of up to $600,000, consisting of both cash as well as the issuance of shares of the Company's common stock. The aggregate consideration included an earn-out provision contingent upon Fybers net revenue (revenue less associated license fees and revenue share) being equal to or higher than $100,000 for the 12-month earn-out period ending on March 31, 2022, as determined in the manner set forth in the Sale and Purchase Agreement. If the net revenue target is achieved, the Company will issue shares of its common stock, and under certain circumstances, an amount of cash. The number of shares to be issued is based on the weighted average share price for the 30-days prior to the end of the earn-out period, and will not exceed $50,000 (subject to set-off against certain potential indemnification claims against the Seller). Based on estimates at the time of the acquisition, the Company initially determined it was unlikely Fyber would achieve the earn-out net revenue target and, as a result, no contingent liability was recognized at that time. On September 30, 2021, the Company entered into the Second Amendment Agreement (the Second Amendment Agreement) to the Sale and Purchase Agreement for the Fyber Acquisition. Pursuant to the Second Amendment Agreement, the parties agreed to settle the remaining number of shares of Company common stock to be issued to the Seller . As a result, the Company issued a total of 5,775,299 shares of Company common stock to the Seller in connection with the Companys acquisition of Fyber. 6 As of March 31, 2022, the Company re-evaluated the fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration based on Fyber's net revenue through the end of the 12-month measurement period ending on March 31, 2022, resulting in an accrued fair value of the contingent earn-out consideration of $50,000. The Company settled the obligation through the issuance of approximately 1,200,000 shares of the Company's common stock subsequent to its fiscal year ended March 31, 2022. Pursuant to certain German law on public takeovers, following the closing, the Company launched a public tender offer to the Minority Fyber Shareholders to acquire from them the Minority Fyber Shares. The tender offer was approved and published in July 2021, and is subject to certain minimum price rules under German law. The timing and the conditions of the tender offer, including the consideration of 0.84 per share offered to the Minority Fyber Shareholders in connection with the tender offer, was determined by the Company pursuant to the applicable Dutch and German takeover laws. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, the Company purchased additional outstanding shares of Fyber, resulting in an ownership percentage of Fyber of approximately 99.5% as of March 31, 2022. The Company expects to complete the purchase of the remaining outstanding Fyber shares during fiscal year 2023. The delisting of Fyber's remaining outstanding shares on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange was completed on August 6, 2021 Please refer to Note 3, "Acquisitions," in the Company's consolidated financial statements included in this From 10-K for further detailed information on the acquisitions discussed above. Our Products and Solutions On Device Media The Company's On Device Media ("ODM") business consists of products and services that simplify the discovery and delivery of mobile apps and content media for device end-users. Application Media represents the portion of the business where our platform delivers apps to end users through partnerships with wireless carriers and OEMs . Application Media optimizes revenue by using developed technology to streamline, track, and manage app install demand from hundreds of application developers across various publishers, carriers, OEMs , and devices. Content Media represents the portion of the business where our platform presents news, weather, sports, and other content directly within the native device experience (e.g., as the start page in the mobile browser, a widget, on unlock, etc . ) through partnerships with wireless carriers and OEMs. Content Media optimizes revenue by a combination of: Programmatic Ad Partner Revenue - advertising within the content media thats sold on an ad exchange at a market rate (cost-per-thousand ("CPM")); Sponsored Content - sponsored content media from third party content providers, presented similarly to an ad, that is monetized when a recommended story is viewed (cost-per-click (CPC)); Editorial Content - owned or licensed media, presented similarly to an ad, that is monetized when the media is clicked on (CPC). In App Media - Fyber The Company's In-App Media - Fyber ("IAM-F") business provides a platform that allows mobile app publishers and developers to monetize their monthly active users via display, native, and video advertising. The IAM-F platform allows demand side platforms ("DSPs"), advertisers, agencies, and publishers to buy and sell digital ad impressions, primarily through programmatic, real-time bidding auctions and, in some cases, through direct-bought/sold advertiser budgets. Our supply side platform technologies: store and manage anonymized data from mobile devices we reach every day, which enable better production and matching of users to relevant advertising content; enable the interaction of DSPs and publishers through software development kits (SDKs) that also render ad media to end users; 7 enable advertiser apps and brands to have their services discovered and downloaded by target users, thereby enhancing return on marketing spend; and utilize advanced in-app bidding technology that optimizes the value of a developers advertising inventory through real-time bidding. Our relationships with brand advertisers, agencies, and other ad buyers offer app publishers and developers the opportunity to engage in direct-sold campaigns, providing more options for publishers and developers to monetize their apps . In App Media - AdColony The Companys In App Media - AdColony ("IAM-A") business consists of products and services to enable agencies, brands, and app developers to reach large audiences while achieving key performance indicators ranging from reach to frequency, cost-per-install, and return on ad spend. These campaigns are filled via in-house developed technologies and platforms customized to reach a wide array of audiences globally while being compatible with industry-recognized partners around measurement, data matching, and creative services. IAM-A's products and services primarily fall into three categories: IAM-A platform that allows DSPs, advertisers, agencies, and publishers to buy and sell digital ad impressions through programmatic, real-time bidding auctions; Brand and Performance services, in which IAM-A contracts with agencies and advertisers through insertion orders that require IAM-A to manage and fulfill advertising campaigns by identifying and purchasing ad inventory to meet customer requirements; and Reseller activities where IAM-A contracts with social media platforms and acts as a reseller of the platforms' ad inventory, primarily in international markets. Competition We operate in a highly competitive and fragmented mobile app ecosystem that includes divisions of large, well-established companies, including public and privately-held companies. The large companies in our ecosystem may play multiple different roles given the breadth of their businesses . Our primary competition for On Device Media comes from the Google Play application store. Broadly, our On Device Media platform faces competition from existing operator solutions built internally, as well as companies providing application and content media products and services, such as Facebook, Snapchat, lronSource, lnMobi, Cheetah Mobile, Baidu, Magnite, Applovin, and others. These companies can be both customers for Digital Turbine products, as well as comp etitors in certain cases . We compete with smaller competitors, but the more material competition is internally-developed operator solutions and specific media distribution solutions built in-house by OEMs and wireless carriers. Some of our existing wireless carriers could make a strategic decision to develop their own solutions rather than continue to use our suite of products, which could be a material source of competition. Advertisers typically engage with several advertising platforms and networks to purchase advertisements on mobile devices and apps, looking to optimize their marketing investments. Such advertising platform companies vary in size and include players such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and Unity Software, as well as various private companies . Several of these platforms are also our partners and clients. We compete with other demand-side platform providers, some of which are smaller, privately-held companies and others are divisions of large, well-established companies such as AT&T, Google, and Adobe. Our competition for In App Media products and services comes from a diverse group of companies, including Pubmatic, Magnite, and The Trade Desk. The competition in this area is significant and multifaceted, including our ability to offer technological advantages to both demand side and supply side partners, as well as maintain and expand relationships that provide access to ad inventory. 8 We believe that the principal competitive factors in the mobile app ecosystems are: the ability to enhance and improve technologies and offerings; knowledge, expertise, and experience in the mobile app ecosystem; relationships with third parties in the mobile app ecosystem, including app publishers and developers; the ability to reach and target a large number of users; the ability to identify and execute on strategic transactions; the ability to successfully monetize mobile apps; the pricing and perceived value of offerings; brand and reputation; and ability to expand into new offerings and geographies. Product Development Our product development expenses consist primarily of salaries and benefits for employees working on campaign management, creating, developing, editing, programming, performing quality assurance, obtaining wireless carrier ratification, and deploying our products across various wireless carriers, OEMs, advertisers, publishers, and on our internal platforms. We devote substantial resources to the development, technology support, and quality assurance of our products. Total product development costs incurred for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, were $52,723, $20,119, and $12,018, respectively. Intellectual Property We consider our trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, patents, and other intellectual property rights, including those in our know-how, and the software code of our proprietary technology to be, in the aggregate, material to our business. We protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal and state statutory and common law rights, foreign laws where applicable, as well as contractual restrictions. We have patent and patent applications in the U.S. and outside the U.S., including in Israel and Canada, and we own and use trademarks and service marks on or in connection with our proprietary technology and related services, including both unregistered common law marks and issued trademark registrations. We design, test, and update our products, services, and websites regularly, and we have developed our proprietary solut io ns in house. Our know-how is an important element of our intellectual property. The development and management of our platform requires sophisticated coordination among many specialized employees. We take steps to protect our know-how, trade secrets, and other confidential information, in part, by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, developers, and vendors who have access to our confidential information, and generally limiting access to and distribution of our confidential information. We intend to pursue additional intellectual property protection to the extent we believe it would advance our business objectives and maintain our competitive position. Contracts with Customers We have both exclusive and non-exclusive wireless carrier and OEM agreements. Our agreements with advertisers and publishers are generally non-exclusive. Our wireless carrier and OEM agreements for our on-device media business are multi-year agreements, with terms that are generally longer than one to two years. In addition, some wireless carrier agreements provide that the wireless carrier can terminate the agreement early and, in some instances, at any time without cause, which could give them the ability to renegotiate economic or other terms . The agreements generally do not obligate the wireless carriers to market or distribute any of our products or services. Our contracts with publishers are generally cancellable with short-term notification periods by either party. We have contractual relationships with numerous advertisers, agencies, and DSPs, which are not exclusive and can be terminated by them with either no notice or relatively short notice. Furthermore, we distribute a significant level of advertising through a few wireless carriers in our On Device Media business . I f such advertising clients or these wireless carriers decide to materially reduce or discontinue its use of our platforms, it may cause a decline in our revenue and negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. With respect to customer revenue concentration, during the fiscal years ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, no single customer represented more than 10% of our net revenue. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, one major customer, Oath Inc., a subsidiary of Verizon Communications, represented 15.3% of our net revenue. 9 With respect to partner revenue concentration, the Company partners with wireless carriers and OEMs to del i ver applications on our platform through the carrier networks. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, no single partner represented more than 10% of our net revenue. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2021, T-Mobile US Inc . , including Sprint and other subsidiaries, a carrier partner, generated 26.4% of our net revenue; AT&T Inc., including its Cricket subsidiary, a carrier partner, generated 22.3% of our net revenue; Verizon Wireless, a subsidiary of Verizon Communications, a carrier partner, generated 18.5% of our net revenue; and America Movil, primarily through its subsidiary Tracfone Wireless Inc., a carrier partner, generated 10.8% of our net revenue. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2020, Verizon Wireless, a subsidiary of Verizon Communications, a carrier partner, generated 37.3% of our net revenue, while AT&T Inc., including its Cricket subsidiary, a carrier partner, generated 30.0% of our net revenue. Under our contracts with wireless carriers and OEMs, the carriers and OEMs control, manage, and monetize the mobile devi ce through the marketing of application slots or advertisement space/inventory to advertisers and deliver the applications or advertisements to the mobile device. The Company generally offers these services under a revenue share model or, to a lesser extent, a customer contract per device license fee model for a two-to-four year software as a service license agreement. The Company generally offers brand and programmatic advertising services under customer contract arrangements with third-party advertisers and agencies, generally in the form of insertion orders that specify the type of arrangement at particular set budget amounts/restraints. These customer contracts are generally short-term in nature , at less than one year, as the budget amounts are typically spent in full within this time period. The Company offers programmatic and direct-sold advertising services under customer contract arrangements as part of its In App Media business. The Companys customers can offer/bid on each individual display ad and the highest bid wins the right to fill each ad impression. When the bid is won, the ad will be received and placed on the mobile device. The entire process happens almost instantaneously and on a continuous basis. The advertising exchanges bill and collect from the winning bidders and provide daily and monthly reports of the activity to the Company. Business Seasonality Our revenue, cash flow from operations, operating results, and other key operating and financial measures may vary from quarter-to-quarter due to the seasonal nature of advertiser spending. For example, many advertisers (and their agencies) devote a disproportionate amount of their budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year to coincide with increased holiday spending. We expect our revenue, cash flow from operations, operating results, and other key operating and financial measures to fluctuate based on seasonal factors from period-to-period and expect these measures to be generally higher in the third and fourth fiscal quarters than in prior quarters. People and Culture We believe the strength of our workforce is critical to our success as we strive to become a more inclusive and diverse technology company. As of March 31, 2022, we employed 844 full-time employees globally, including 364 employees in North America, 262 employees in Europe and the Middle East, 205 employees in Asia Pacific, and 13 employees in Latin America. Our key human capital management objectives are to attract, retain, and develop the talent we need to deliver on our commitment to offer and deliver exceptional products and services . Examples of our key programs and initiatives that are focused to achieve these objectives include: Total Compensation and Benefits: Our guiding principles are anchored on the goals of being able to attract, incentivize, and retain talented employees. We beli eve in economic security for all employees and have adopted a Living Wage policy. All employees are eligible for performance bonuses of at least 10% of base salary, which can be paid out significantly higher based on performance. In addition, each employee receives a new-hire long-term incentive stock option grant and an annual long-term incentive stock option grant, based upon performance. We also provide our employees twelve weeks of paid short-term disability at 100% of base pay, which includes parental leave. Diversity and Inclusion: We take great pride in our focus and commitment to diversity and inclusion. We seek a diverse and inclusive work environment and transparently measure our progress to ensure that our employee populations are reflective of the communities in which we reside. We evaluate all of our people practices, particularly in talent acquisition and pay equity. We benchmark our demographics to our industry , both at an overall level and a professional category level (VPs and above, directors, managers, individual contributors and administrative), and note that we either are at the high end or exceed the benchmark in every diversity category. 10 Culture and Values: We have adopted our culture values of Hustle, Results, Accountability, Global, Freedom and Laugh to help create and foster a culture where every employee is empowered, engaged and trusted to be their best at work. We sponsor and support our Community Action Teams, which is an employee-led program designed to create purposeful action to build a stronger and better-connected team. The Community Action Teams have helped drive meaningful advancements in on-boarding, cross-functional understanding, a mentoring program, and a Digital Turbine Gives campaign where employees volunteer in the community over a six-week period on an annual basis . Workplace Flexibility: As part of our Freedom value, and before the COVID-19 pandemic drove a shift to r emot e work, we established a workplace strategy to provide more flexible work options to enable employees to work from the location and the schedule they desire. As a result, we had process, culture, and technology in place that allowed us to seamlessly pivot to a fully remote workforce following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of the shift to fully remote work, we provided an allowance of up to one thousand dollars for each employee for home office set-up or personal expenses such as tutoring or caregiving services. We also re-purposed computers for employees who required more devices to support remote learning for dependents. Health, Safety, and Wellness: The success of our business is fundamentally connected to the well-being of our people. Accordingly, we are committed to the health, safety, and wellness of our employees. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of innovative, flexible, and convenient health and wellness programs. We continue to evolve our programs to meet our employees health and wellness needs. Government Regulation We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business. These laws and regulations involve matters including privacy, data use, data protection and personal information, rights of publicity, content, intellectual property, advertising, marketing, consumer protection, taxation, anti-corruption and political law compliance, and securities law compliance. In particular, we are subject to federal, state, and foreign laws regarding privacy and protection of peoples data. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regu lations can impose different obligations or be more restrictive than those in the United States. Refer to the Companys risk factors disclosed in its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, and updates to such risk factors described in subsequent periodic reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, for further discussion of government regulations and the associated risks. Available Information Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our website at http://www.digitalturbine.com generally when such reports are available on the SEC website. The contents of our website are not incorporated into this Form 10-K. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SECs Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at http://www.sec.gov . ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. Current investors and potential investors should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below together with all other information contained in this Form 10-K before making investment decisions with respect to our common stock. The business, financial condition and operating results of the Company can be affected by a number of factors, whether currently known or unknown, including but not limited to those described below, any one or more of which could, directly or indirectly, cause the Companys actual results of operations and financial condition to vary materially from past, or from anticipated future, results of operations and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and our future growth prospects would be materially and adversely affected. Under these circumstances, the trading price and value of our common stock could decline, resulting in a loss of all or part of your investment. The risks and uncertainties described in this Form 10-K are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties of which we are not presently aware, or that we currently consider immaterial, may also affect our business operations. 11 Past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and current and potential investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risk Factors Summary Our business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those outside our control, that could cause our business, financial condition, or operating results to be harmed, including the following summary of risk factors: General Company Risks The markets for our products and services are rapidly evolving and may decline or experience limited growth. We may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. We have a limited operating history for our current portfolio of assets. The failure to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions may adversely affect our future results. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. Our operations are global in scope, and we face added business, political, regulatory, legal, operational, financial and economic risks as a result of our international operations. Our financial results could vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and are difficult to predict. A significant portion of our revenue is derived from a limited number of wireless carriers and customers. If we are unsuccessful in establishing and increasing awareness of our brand and recognition of our products and services, our operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Risks Related to the Mobile Advertising Industry Generally The mobile advertising business is an intensely competitive industry, and we may not be able to compete successfully. Our business is dependent on the continued growth in usage of smartphones and other mobile connected devices. The mobile advertising market may develop more slowly than expected. Wireless technologies are changing rapidly, and we may not be successful in working with these new technologies. The complexity of and incompatibilities among mobile devices may require us to use additional resources for the development of our products and services. If wireless subscribers do not continue to use their mobile devices to access mobile content and other applications, our business growth and future revenue may be adversely affected. A shift of technology platform by wireless carriers and mobile device manufacturers could lengthen the development period for our offerings, increase our costs, and cause our offerings to be published later than anticipated. We may be unable to develop and introduce in a timely way new products or services, and our products and services may have defects, which could harm our brand. If we fail to maintain and enhance our capabilities for our offerings to a broad array of mobile operating systems, our sales could suffer. We may not be able to enhance our mobile advertising platform to keep pace with technological and market developments. Our business depends on the growth and maintenance of wireless communications infrastructure. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in devices or wireless networks could adversely affect our revenue. We may be subject to legal liability associated with providing mobile and online services. Our business is dependent on our ability to maintain and scale our infrastructure, and any significant disruption in our service could damage our reputation, result in a potential loss of customers and adversely affect our financial results. Our products, services and systems rely on software that is highly technical, and if it contains errors or viruses, our business could be adversely affected. We rely upon third-party data centers and providers of cloud-based infrastructure to host our platform. Any disruption in the operations of these third-party providers could adversely affect our business. We do not have long-term agreements with advertiser and publisher customers, and we may be unable to retain key customers, attract new customers or replace departing customers with customers that can provide comparable revenue. Our business is highly dependent on decisions and developments in the mobile device industry. Our business may involve the use, transmission and storage of confidential information and personally identifiable information, and the failure to properly safeguard such information could result in significant reputational harm and monetary damages. Third parties control our access to unique identifiers and if the use of technology or data is further restricted, rejected or subject to regulations or intellectual property claims, our performance and business may decline. System security risks and cyber-attacks could disrupt our internal operations or information technology services provided to customers. 12 Industry Regulatory Risks We are subject to rapidly changing and increasingly stringent laws, regulations and contractual requirements related to privacy, data security, and protection of children. We are subject to anti-corruption, import/export, government sanction, and similar laws, especially related to our international operations. Government regulation of our marketing methods could restrict or prevent our ability to adequately advertise and promote our content, products and services available in certain jurisdictions. On Device Media Risks Our revenue may fluctuate significantly based on mobile device sell-through, over which we have no control. Activities of the Companys advertisers could damage the Companys reputation. Our growth and monetization on mobile devices depend upon effective operation with mobile operating systems, networks, and standards that we do not control as we are largely an Android-based technology provider. If we fail to deliver our products and services ahead of the commercial launch of new mobile device models, our sales may suffer. The Company does not control the mobile networks over which it provides its advertising services. Media Demand Risks If our access to quality advertising inventory is diminished or fails to expand, our revenue could decline and our growth could be impeded. Our failure to meet standards and provide services our advertiser and publisher customers trust could harm our brand and business. Risks Related to Our Management, Employees, and Acquisitions Our business and growth may suffer if we are unable to hire and retain key talent. If we are unable to maintain our corporate culture, our business could be harmed. The acquisition of other technologies could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Potential Liability Third parties may obtain and improperly use our intellectual property; and if so, our competitive position may be adversely affected, particularly if we do not, or are unable to, adequately protect our intellectual property rights Third parties may sue us for intellectual property infringement, which may prevent or limit our use of the intellectual property and disrupt our business and could require us to pay significant damage awards. Our platform contains open source software. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock and Capital Structure We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure