Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources-Recent Developments for a description of these financial covenants. If we fail to satisfy these covenants, the lender may declare a default, which could lead to acceleration of the debt. Further, acceleration could cause a cross default under our $16 million unsecured notes (the "Notes) due 2020. Any such default or cross default would have a material adverse effect on the Company. The secured indebtedness also contains a requirement that at all times two thirds of our Notes due 2020 remain subject subordination agreements. There is no assurance that this condition will always be satisfied due to potential sales, conversions or other events with respect to the Notes. If we failed to comply with his requirement the lender may declare a default, which could lead to acceleration and the other adverse consequences noted immediately above. The collateral pledged to secured our secured debt, consisting of all of our and our subsidiaries assets, would be available to the secured creditor in a foreclosure, in addition to many other remedies. Accordingly, any adverse change in our ability to service our secured debt could result in an event of default, cross default and foreclosure or forced sale. Depending on the value of the assets, there could be little if any assets available for common stockholders or Noteholders in any foreclosure or forced sale. To service our debt and fund our other capital requirements, we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to fund working capital, capital expenditures and investments in our business, will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. For example, this could include general and regional economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors. We cannot ensure that we will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or to fund our other liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional indebtedness or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. 36 The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations, and you may be unable to resell your shares at or above the current price. The market price of our common stock is likely to be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a number of factors that are beyond our control, including announcements of new products or services by our competitors. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, including: quarterly variations in our revenues and operating expenses; developments in the financial markets, and the worldwide or regional economies; announcements of innovations or new products or services by us or our competitors; significant sales of our common stock or other securities in the open market; and changes in accounting principles. In the past, stockholders have often instituted securities class action litigation after periods of volatility in the market price of a companys securities. If a stockholder were to file any such class action suit against us, we would incur substantial legal fees and our managements attention and resources would be diverted from operating our business to respond to the litigation, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with the continued listing requirements of the NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted and the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted. Our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market (NADSAQ). On May 30, 2017 , the last reported sale price for our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market was $1.10 per share and the closing price of our common stock has traded in a range from a low of $0.59 per share to a high of $1.47 per share during fiscal 2017 . We must continue to satisfy NASDAQs continued listing requirements, including, among other things, a minimum closing bid price requirement of $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive business days. If a company trades for 30 consecutive business days below the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement, NASDAQ will send a deficiency notice to the company, advising that it has been afforded a compliance period of 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the applicable requirements. Thereafter, if such a company does not regain compliance with the bid price requirement, a second 180-day compliance period may be available. A delisting of our common stock from NADSAQ could materially reduce the liquidity of our common stock and result in a corresponding material reduction in the price of our common stock. In addition, delisting could harm our ability to raise capital through alternative financing sources on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and may result in the potential loss of confidence by investors, employees and fewer business development opportunities. The sale of securities by us in any equity or debt financing, or the issuance of new shares related to an acquisition, could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and have a material adverse effect on our earnings. Any sale or issuance of common stock by us in a future offering or acquisition could result in dilution to the existing stockholders as a direct result of our issuance of additional shares of our capital stock. In addition, our business strategy may include expansion through internal growth by acquiring complimentary businesses, acquiring or licensing additional brands, or establishing strategic relationships with targeted customers and suppliers. In order to do so, or to finance the cost of our other activities, we may issue additional equity securities that could dilute our stockholders stock ownership. We may also assume additional debt and incur impairment losses related to goodwill and other tangible assets if we acquire another company, and this could negatively impact our earnings and results of operations. We may choose to raise additional capital to accelerate the growth of our business, and we may not be able to raise capital to grow our business on terms acceptable to us or at all. Should we choose to pursue alternatives to accelerate the growth or enhance our existing business, we may require significant cash outlays and commitments. If our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances and any cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we may seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We may not be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings, if available, may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders, and the prices at which new investors would be willing to purchase our securities may be lower than the fair market value of our common stock. The holders of new securities may also receive rights, preferences or privileges that are senior to those of existing holders of our common stock. 37 Our GAAP operating results could fluctuate substantially due to the accounting for the early conversion, anti-dilution and other features of the Notes. We expect the Notes will be accounted for under Accounting Standards Codification 815, Derivatives and Hedging (or ASC 815) as an embedded derivative. For instance, the early conversion payment feature of the Notes is accounted for under ASC 815 as an embedded derivative. ASC 815 requires companies to bifurcate conversion options from their host instruments and account for them as free standing derivative financial instruments according to certain criteria. The fair value of the derivative is remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date, with a resulting non-cash gain or loss related to the change in the fair value of the derivative being charged to earnings (loss). Although we have not finalized our accounting treatment, we expect that we must bifurcate and account for the Early Conversion Payment feature of the Notes as an embedded derivative in accordance with ASC 815. We expect to have to record this embedded derivative liability as a non-current liability on our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding debt discount at the date of issuance that is netted against the principal amount of the Notes. The derivative liability is remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date, with a resulting non-cash gain or loss related to the change in the fair value of the derivative liability being recorded in other income and loss. There is no current observable market for this type of derivative and, as such, we determine the fair value of the embedded derivative using the binomial lattice model. The valuation model uses the stock price, conversion price, maturity date, risk-free interest rate, estimated stock volatility and estimated credit spread. Changes in the inputs for these valuation models may have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities. For example, an increase in the Companys stock price results in an increase in the estimated fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities. The embedded derivative liability may have, on a GAAP basis, a substantial effect on our balance sheet from quarter to quarter and it is difficult to predict the effect on our future GAAP financial results, since valuation of these embedded derivative liabilities are based on factors largely outside of our control and may have a negative impact on our earnings and balance sheet. We also expect to have a material derivative liability recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as a result of the anti-dilution and other embedded derivative features in the warrants and/or the Notes. Under applicable accounting rules, we may be required to mark to market this liability each reporting period and record changes in the fair value associated with this liability in our consolidated statement of operations. As such, when our stock price increases, the fair value of this liability would increase, and we recognize an expense associated with this change in fair value. Similarly, when our stock price decreases, the fair value of this liability decreases, and we recognize a gain associated with this change in fair value. As such, though there is no cash flow impact to us caused by the volatility of our stock price, applicable accounting rules have a direct impact on our reported profit or loss as per Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. We have also not finalized the impact on our ability to use the treasury method to calculate diluted earnings per share as a result of the conversion option and warrant transactions. Our ability to use the treasury method may differ before and after shareholder approval of the issuance of the maximum shares in this offering, assuming such approval is granted. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards will permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. We have not completed our analysis of other features of the Notes and warrants and it is possible that the complex accounting rules applicable to these instruments may require us to record other material non-cash charges to earnings and/or non-cash derivative liabilities. These affects may significantly impact our reported results. The Notes are unsecured, are effectively subordinated to all of our future secured indebtedness and are structurally subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries (other than the guarantors), including trade credit. The Notes are unsecured, are effectively subordinated to all of our future secured indebtedness (although we are not permitted to incur any secured or unsecured indebtedness subject to limited exceptions) and are structurally subordinated to all indebtedness and liabilities of our subsidiaries (other than the guarantors), including trade payables. The Notes rank equally with all our future general unsecured and unsubordinated obligations, and senior to all our future subordinated debt. As noted, above, over two thirds of our Notes holders are subject to subordination agreements in favor of our senior secured lender. In the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, reorganization or other winding up, although we are not permitted to incur any secured or unsecured indebtedness subject to limited exceptions (such as the consent to incur $5 million of secured debt we received, as noted above), our assets that secure debt ranking senior in right of payment to the Notes will be available to pay obligations on the Notes only after the secured debt has been repaid in full from these assets, and subject to the guarantees discussed below, the assets of our subsidiaries will be available to pay obligations on the Notes only after all claims senior to the Notes which includes all liabilities of such subsidiary, including trade payables have been repaid in full. There may not be sufficient assets remaining to pay amounts due on any or all of the Notes then outstanding. 38 The Notes do not contain restrictive financial covenants, other than debt incurrence and restrictions on payments, and we may take actions which may affect our ability to satisfy our obligations under the Notes. The indenture governing the Notes does not contain any financial or operating covenants (other than restrictions on our incurrence of certain other indebtedness (including secured debt) and restrictions on certain payments) by us or any of our subsidiaries. In addition, the limited covenants applicable to the Notes do not require us to achieve or maintain any minimum financial results relating to our financial position or results of operations. Our ability to recapitalize and take a number of other actions that are not limited by the terms of the Notes could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on the Notes when due, including interest payments, payments of principal and payments due upon the election of a holder to require us to purchase Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of cash flow to fund our operations, working capital and capital expenditures. Recent regulatory actions may adversely affect the trading price and liquidity of the Notes and of the warrants and our common stock. We expect that many investors in, and potential purchasers of, the Notes and warrants will employ, or seek to employ, a convertible arbitrage strategy with respect to the Notes and warrants. Investors would typically implement such a strategy by selling short the common stock underlying the Notes and warrants and dynamically adjusting their short position while continuing to hold the Notes and warrants. Investors may also implement this type of strategy by entering into swaps on our common stock in lieu of or in addition to short selling the common stock. As a result, any specific rules regulating equity swaps or short selling of securities or other governmental action that interferes with the ability of market participants to effect short sales or equity swaps with respect to our common stock could adversely affect the ability of investors in, or potential purchasers of, the Notes and warrants to conduct the convertible arbitrage strategy with respect to the Notes and warrants. The SEC and other regulatory and self-regulatory authorities have implemented various rules and taken certain actions, and may in the future adopt additional rules and take other actions, that may impact those engaging in short selling activity involving equity securities (including our common stock). Such rules and actions include Rule 201 of SEC Regulation SHO, the adoption by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and the national securities exchanges of a Limit Up-Limit Down program, the imposition of market-wide circuit breakers that halt trading of securities for certain periods following specific market declines, and the implementation of certain regulatory reforms required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010. Any governmental or regulatory action that restricts the ability of investors in, or potential purchasers of, the Notes and warrants to effect short sales of our common stock, borrow our common stock or enter into swaps on our common stock could adversely affect the trading price and the liquidity of the Notes and warrants. The adjustment to the conversion rate for Notes converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change (including a redemption) may not adequately compensate the investor for any lost value of the investors' Notes as a result of such transaction. If a make-whole fundamental change (as defined herein) occurs prior to maturity, under certain circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate by a number of additional shares of our common stock for Notes converted in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. The increase in the conversion rate will be determined based on the date on which the specified corporate transaction becomes effective and the price paid (or deemed paid) per share of our common stock in such transaction, as described in the indenture for the Notes. The adjustment to the conversion rate for Notes converted in connection with a make-whole fundamental change may not adequately compensate the investor for any lost value of the investors' Notes as a result of such transaction. In addition, if the price paid (or deemed paid) per share of our common stock in the transaction is greater than $1.25 per share of our common stock or less than $20 per share of our common stock (in each case, subject to adjustment), no adjustment will be made to the conversion rate. In addition, the investor will not be entitled to an Early Conversion Payment for any conversion on or after the effective time of a make-whole fundamental change. Our obligation to increase the conversion rate upon the occurrence of a make-whole fundamental change could be considered a penalty, in which case the enforceability thereof would be subject to general principles of reasonableness of economic remedies. 39 Our GAAP operating results could fluctuate substantially due to the accounting for the early conversion payment features of the Notes. Holders who convert their Notes prior to the September 23, 2019 will receive an Early Conversion Payment. The Early Conversion Payment feature of the Notes is expected to be accounted for under Accounting Standards Codification 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC 815) as an embedded derivative. ASC 815 requires companies to bifurcate conversion options from their host instruments and account for them as free standing derivative financial instruments according to certain criteria. The fair value of the derivative is remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date, with a resulting non-cash gain or loss related to the change in the fair value of the derivative being charged to earnings (loss). We have tentatively determined that we must bifurcate and account for the Early Conversion Payment feature of the Notes as an embedded derivative in accordance with ASC 815. We tentatively will record this embedded derivative liability as a non-current liability on our consolidated balance sheet with a corresponding debt discount at the date of issuance that is netted against the principal amount of the Notes. The derivative liability is expected to be remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date, with a resulting non-cash gain or loss related to the change in the fair value of the derivative liability being recorded in other income and loss. We expect we will estimate the fair value of these liabilities using a Monte Carlo simulation model. We cannot predict the effect that the accounting for the Notes will have on our future GAAP financial results, the trading of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes, which could be material. The conversion rate of the Notes and/or exercise price for the warrants may not be adjusted for all dilutive events. The conversion rate of the Notes and the exercise price for the warrants are each subject to separate adjustments for certain events, including, but not limited to, the issuance of shares of our common stock without consideration or at a price per share less than the applicable conversion rate, subject to certain exceptions, the issuance of stock dividends on our common stock, the issuance of certain rights, options, or warrants, subdivisions, combinations, distributions of capital stock, evidences of indebtedness, assets or property, cash dividends and certain issuer tender offers or exchange offers as described in the indenture for the Notes. However, the conversion rate and exercise price, as applicable, will not be adjusted for all possible events, such as a third-party tender offer or exchange offer, that may adversely affect the trading price of the Notes or the market price of our common stock. An event that adversely affects the value of the Notes may occur, and that event may not result in an adjustment to the conversion rate. Some significant restructuring transactions may not constitute a fundamental change, in which case we would not be obligated to purchase the Notes at the option of the holder. Upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, subject to certain conditions, the investor will have the right, at the investors' option, to require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of the investors' Notes with a principal amount equal to $1,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. However, the fundamental change provisions will not afford protection to holders of Notes in the event of other transactions that do not constitute a fundamental change but that could nevertheless adversely affect the Notes. For example, transactions such as leveraged recapitalizations (subject to the limitations in the indenture to incur new debt), refinancings, restructurings or acquisitions initiated by us may not constitute a fundamental change requiring us to purchase the Notes. In the event of any such transaction, holders would not have the right to require us to purchase their Notes, even though each of these transactions could increase the amount of our indebtedness or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure or any credit ratings, thereby adversely affecting holders of the Notes. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to repurchase the Notes when required. Holders of the Notes will have the right to require us to repurchase the Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at 120% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest (including additional interest), if any, as described in the indenture for the Notes. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of the Notes surrendered therefor. Our failure to repurchase surrendered Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under the agreements governing other indebtedness. If the repayment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes. 40 We will not seek a rating on the Notes. We do not intend to seek a rating on the Notes. However, if a rating service were to rate the Notes and if such rating service were to lower its rating on the Notes below the rating initially assigned to the Notes or otherwise announce its intention to put the Notes on credit watch, the trading price of the Notes could decline. There is no public market for the Notes or for the warrants, which could limit their respective trading price or the investors' ability to sell them. The Notes and warrants are new issues of securities for which there currently is no respective trading market. As a result, a market may not develop for the Notes or for the warrants and the investor may not be able to sell its Notes and warrants. Any Notes and warrants that are traded after their initial issuance may trade at a discount from their initial offering price. Future trading prices of the Notes and of the warrants will depend on many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the market for similar securities, general economic conditions and our financial condition, performance and prospects. Accordingly, the investor may be required to bear the financial risk of an investment in the Notes and warrants for an indefinite period of time. We do not intend to apply for listing or quotation of the Notes or the warrants on any securities exchange or automated quotation system. While the initial purchaser may make a market in the Notes and in the warrants, they are not required to do so and, consequently, any market making with respect to the Notes and warrants may be discontinued at any time without notice. Even if the initial purchaser makes a market in the Notes and in the warrants, the liquidity of such markets may be limited. Conversion of the Notes and exercise of the warrants will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Notes, or may otherwise depress the market price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of the Notes and the exercise of some or all of the warrants will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the shares of our common stock issuable upon such conversion or such exercise could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes and warrants may encourage short selling by market participants because the anticipated conversion of the Notes or upon exercise of the warrants into shares of our common stock could depress the market price of our common stock. U.S. holders will recognize income for U.S. federal income tax purposes significantly in excess of interest payments on the Notes, and gains, if any, recognized on a disposition of Notes will generally be taxed as ordinary income. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we intend to treat the Notes as contingent payment debt obligations under the contingent payment debt regulations and the rest of this discussion so assumes. Accordingly, all payments on the Notes, including stated interest, will be taken into account under the contingent payment debt regulations and actual cash payments of interest on the Notes will not be reported separately as taxable income. As discussed more fully below, the effect of the contingent payment debt regulations will be to require a holder, regardless of such holders usual method of tax accounting, to use the accrual method with respect to the Notes. There is some uncertainty as to the proper application of the Treasury Regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments and, if the treatment described herein were to be successfully challenged by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) (the IRS), it might be determined that, among other things, the investor should have accrued interest income at a lower or higher rate, or should have recognized capital gain or loss, rather than ordinary income or loss, upon the conversion or taxable disposition of the Notes. 41 The investor may be subject to tax if we make or fail to make certain adjustments to the conversion rate of the Notes, even though the investor will not receive a corresponding cash distribution. The conversion rate of the Notes is subject to adjustment in certain circumstances, including the payment of cash dividends. If the conversion rate is adjusted as a result of a distribution that is taxable to our common stockholders, such as a cash dividend, the investor may be deemed to have received a dividend subject to U.S. federal income tax without the receipt of any cash. In addition, a failure to adjust (or to adjust adequately) the conversion rate after an event that increases the investors' proportionate interest in us could be treated as a deemed taxable dividend to the investor. If a make-whole fundamental change occurs on or prior to the maturity date of the Notes, under some circumstances, we will increase the conversion rate for Notes converted in connection with the make-whole fundamental change. Such increase also may be treated as a dividends subject to U.S. federal income tax. If the investor is a non-U.S. holder, such a deemed dividend may be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax at a 30% rate, or such lower rate as may be specified by an applicable treaty, or to backup withholding, both of which may be set off against subsequent payments of cash and common stock payable on the Notes. Holders of Notes and warrants will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock, but will be subject to all changes made with respect to our common stock. Holders of Notes and warrants will not be entitled to any rights with respect to our common stock (including, without limitation, voting rights and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on our common stock), but holders of Notes and warrants will be subject to all changes affecting our common stock. For example, if an amendment is proposed to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requiring stockholder approval and the record date for determining the stockholders of record entitled to vote on the amendment occurs prior to the relevant conversion date, such holder will not be entitled to vote on the amendment, although such holder will nevertheless be subject to any changes in the powers, preferences or special rights of our common stock. Volatility in the market price and trading volume of our common stock could adversely impact the trading price of the Notes and of the warrants. The stock market in recent years has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of companies. The market price of our common stock could fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including in response to the risks described in this section or for reasons unrelated to our operations, such as reports by industry analysts, investor perceptions or negative announcements by our customers, competitors or suppliers regarding their own performance, as well as industry conditions and general financial, economic and political instability. A decrease in the market price of our common stock would likely adversely impact the trading price of the Notes and of the warrants. The market price of our common stock could also be affected by possible sales of our common stock by investors who view the Notes and warrants as a more attractive means of equity participation in us and by hedging or arbitrage trading activity that we expect to develop involving our common stock. This trading activity could, in turn, affect the respective trading prices of the Notes and warrants. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could lower the market price for our common stock and adversely impact the trading price of the Notes and of the warrants. In the future, we may sell additional shares of our common stock or securities convertible into our common stock to raise capital. In addition, a substantial number of shares of our common stock is reserved for issuance upon the exercise of stock options, the vesting of restricted stock units and restricted stock pursuant to our employee benefit plans, for purchase by employees under our employee stock purchase plan, and upon conversion of the Notes offered hereby and in relation to the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions we expect to enter into in connection with the pricing of the Notes. We cannot predict the size of future issuances or the effect, if any, that they may have on the market price for our common stock. The issuance and sale of substantial amounts of common stock, or the perception that such issuances and sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of the Notes and of the warrants, and the market price of our common stock and impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. 42 Federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the guarantees. In such event, holders of the Notes could be structurally subordinated to creditors of the guarantor. Federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void guarantees, subordinate claims under the guarantee to the guarantors other debt or take other action detrimental to holders of the guarantee of Notes. Under the federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, the guarantees made by the Digital Turbines subsidiaries could be voided or subordinated to other debt for a variety of reasons. To the extent that a subsidiary guarantee were to be voided as a fraudulent conveyance or was held to be unenforceable for any other reason, holders of the Notes would cease to have any claim in respect of such guarantor. We could lose access to our NOLs as a result of the conversion of the Notes and exercises of the warrants. We have significant net operating losses which could be lost or impaired if delivery of shares upon conversion or exercise of Notes or warrants causes an ownership change under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Provisions in the indenture for the Notes and/or warrant agreement for the warrants may deter or prevent a business combination that may be favorable to the investor. If a fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the Notes, holders of the Notes will have the right, at their option, to require us to repurchase all or a portion of their Notes. In addition, if a make-whole fundamental change occurs prior to the maturity date of the Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such fundamental change. Furthermore, the indenture for the Notes prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes. These and other provisions in the indenture with respect to the Notes and in the warrant agreement with respect to the warrants could deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us even when the acquisition may be favorable to the investor. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, or if they downgrade their recommendations regarding our common stock, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about our business or us. If any of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, our common stock price would likely decline. If analysts cease coverage of our Company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. We do not anticipate paying dividends. Our secured and unsecured indebtedness essentially prevents all payments of dividends to our stockholders. Even if such dividends were permitted by the applicable lenders, we have never paid cash or other dividends on our common stock. Payment of dividends on our common stock is within the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon our earnings, our capital requirements and financial condition, and other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. However, the earliest our Board of Directors would likely consider a dividend is if we begin to generate excess cash flow. The SEC has sent us a letter regarding an informal inquiry requesting information and documents generally related to the Companys internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure