Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsKey Business Metrics for additional information. Our Solution DigitalOcean was founded with the guiding principle that the transformative benefits of the cloud should be easy to leverage, broadly accessible, reliable and affordable. We pioneered our cloud platform to simplify cloud computing, enabling startups and growing digital businesses to quickly deploy and scale applications, collaborate efficiently and improve business performance. Empowered by an easy-to-use self-service model, intuitive control panel and highly predictable pricing, our customers are able to rapidly accelerate innovation and increase their productivity and agility. Simple and Intuitive. Our platform is engineered to take a user from inquiry to deployment within minutes, without any specialized training or heavy implementation. We abstract away the complexity that is generally found across legacy cloud providers to provide a compelling, intuitive interface with click-and-go options. Our platform provides users with a deployment interface that is comparable to interfaces provided by consumer internet leaders and is designed to minimize the number of steps to deployment. In addition, all DigitalOcean products come with detailed product and technical documentation to help our customers deploy to our cloud platform more quickly. Designed to Help Businesses Easily Scale. Our highly-curated set of solutions are designed to address the needs of startups and growing digital businesses as they scale their businesses and require more cloud capabilities. Our platform can support a wide range of use cases, such as web and mobile applications, website hosting, e-commerce, media and gaming, personal web projects, managed services, and AI/ML applications, among many others. Our offerings give customers the ability to select their desired level of technical infrastructure management. Customers with any type of use case have the ability to choose from managing their own infrastructure and building their own bespoke solutions using our IaaS or AI/ML offerings, offloading the technical infrastructure entirely through our Managed Hosting offering or delegating certain aspects of the management using our managed PaaS or AI/ML offerings. Transparent and Predictable Pricing. Our approach to billing and pricing is simple, intuitive and transparent. Our pricing is primarily consumption-based and renewable monthly, making it easy for our customers to optimize their deployments. We provide detailed monthly invoices, irrespective of the customers size or number of products purchased, making it easy to track usage on an ongoing basis. We enable our customers to control their spending and ensure there are no hidden charges that appear at the end of the month. Like everything we do, we approach billing with a customer-first focus, enabling our customers to spend more time developing and deploying innovative applications rather than interpreting and navigating convoluted invoices. Differentiated Customer Support. We offer expert 24x7 technical support and customer service, with support staff spanning various time zones to ensure our customers quickly achieve their objectives and overcome challenges. Developers and engineers are a key part of our customer support team, and we offer robust technical support free of charge to all customers. We also offer paid support plans, which enable users to get faster response times and dedicated support from technical managers. Customers cite our attentive support as a key driver of their decision to start and grow their businesses on our platform. Security and Data Protection. Maintaining the security and integrity of our platform is a critical focus for us, as well as for our customers who rely on us for their critical business needs. We invest significantly in securing the computing infrastructure foundation upon which our customers build and scale their projects. We remove the complexity of securing infrastructure for our customers and make it simple for them to build the security layers required for their use cases. We are also committed to customer data privacy and utilize best-in-class access, encryption and data protection technologies and processes. 7 Open Source. Startups and growing digital businesses especially value open source technology as it allows them greater choice, affordability and flexibility, and our platform is designed to take advantage of open source technology to provide our customers with a much more efficient way to work. Our participation in and support of the open source software community enhances the attractiveness, depth and scalability of our offering. It increases the transparency of our technology and allows our customers to more efficiently write their own integrations. We give back to the community by sponsoring projects to create content and tools that help developers build great software and hosting events that are focused on driving the growth of open source. Broad-Based Community Ecosystem. We have built one of the worlds largest developer learning communities, with numerous high-quality developer tutorials and community-generated questions and answers. The strength of our community ecosystem is predicated on differentiated content on our community education websites, which ultimately attracts users and reinforces our highly efficient self-service model. Key Benefits to Our Customers Our solution is designed to empower our target customers with best-in-class cloud technologies, while supporting them with superior customer service. This customer-centric focus underpins our mission of simplifying cloud computing so startups and growing digital businesses can spend more time creating software that changes the world. For our customers, the key benefits of our solution include: Accelerating innovation by leveraging the full power of the cloud Making it simple to build, deploy and scale applications Spending less time managing infrastructure and more time on higher value tasks that drive the growth and success of their businesses Achieving rapid time-to-value with a reliable, highly-performant and cost-effective platform Providing optionality for customers to choose whether to manage their own infrastructure or allow us to manage the infrastructure for them A highly-reliable, scalable and secure platform Superior customer support designed to help customers quickly achieve their objectives Detailed product and technical documentation to help customers more easily deploy their applications Our Growth Strategies We are driving significant growth by executing on the following key strategies: Increasing Usage by Our Existing Customers. Our existing customer base represents a significant opportunity for further sales expansion through increased usage of our platform and adoption of additional product offerings. We are highly focused on gaining a better understanding of the needs and growth plans of our existing customers. This deeper relationship with our customers will help us identify opportunities to educate our customer base on ways to utilize the platform more effectively for their individual use cases, as well as provide a feedback loop to inform our product roadmap. We are focusing our sales and support teams to prevent customer churn by ensuring that our products and services provide a high level of value. We closely monitor our net dollar retention (NDR), which reflects our ability to retain and grow revenue from our existing customers. While NDR decreased from 2022 to 2023, as we lapped the effects of the price increase and addition of revenue from our Cloudways acquisition, each of which occurred in 2022, we expect to increase our revenue in the future from existing customers through the introduction of new products and features tailored to our customer base in addition to expanded customer outreach, focused on larger customers and specific use cases. Growing Our Base of Higher Spend Customers. We believe there is a substantial opportunity to further expand our customer base to attract more businesses that can scale on our platform. We are investing in strategies that we believe will attract Builders and Scalers, including new marketing initiatives that further optimize our self-service revenue funnel to help customers expand their usage and partnership initiatives to identify potential Builders and Scalers. In addition, our Cloudways and Paperspace acquisitions added a significant number of Builders and Scalers as these offerings provide premium managed services and high value AI/ML offerings, respectively. We had approximately 156,000 Builders and Scalers as of December 31, 2023, up from approximately 144,000 and 8 99,000 as of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. These Builders and Scalers represented 86% of our total revenue in 2023, up from 85% and 83% in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Investing in Our Platform and Product Offerings. We have a history of, and will continue to invest significantly in, delivering innovative products, features and functionality targeted at our core customer base. The market opportunity for our core IaaS services of compute, storage and networking continues to expand and we are making targeted investments to expand our IaaS revenue. For example, in 2023, we invested in our content delivery network, launched Scalable Storage for our Managed Databases offering and broadened the geographic availability of our Spaces offering. Beyond IaaS, we continue to see large growth opportunities in the PaaS, SaaS and AI/ML markets and, accordingly, we have expanded our portfolio of products and offerings over the last few years. In the third quarter of 2023, we acquired Paperspace, a leading provider of cloud infrastructure for highly scalable GPU-accelerated applications, to enable customers to more easily test, develop and deploy AI/ML applications or augment and enhance existing AI/ML applications. We expect to make additional investments to offer an enhanced and tailored suite of IaaS, PaaS, SaaS and AI/ML offerings that address the changing needs of our business customers. Augmenting Our Platform through Opportunistic Strategic Acquisitions. We believe that acquisitions and strategic partnerships will allow us to accelerate our key platform, product and marketing initiatives. For example, we acquired Paperspace in 2023, which launched our AI/ML offerings, and Cloudways in 2022, which added our Managed Hosting offering to our platform. We believe that additional acquisition opportunities will supplement our organic growth strategy. We intend to actively pursue both acquisitions and strategic partnerships that we believe will be complementary to our business, accelerate customer acquisition, increase usage of our platform and/or expand our product offerings in our core markets. Growing and Engaging Our Community. More than 7 million unique visitors interact with our websites, including our education websites, on a monthly basis to learn, share and educate others. We are committed to supporting and expanding this community of innovators and technologists through high-quality content and expanded developer-focused programs and events around the world. Supporting and educating the developer community is one of our core values, but it also drives brand loyalty, expands our customer base and drives increased adoption of our products. Our Platform and Product Offerings We have designed our global cloud platform to ensure a simple, reliable and affordable cloud computing experience for our customer base of startups and growing digital businesses. This entails maintaining a high-performance global infrastructure, offering a highly curated set of solutions and providing a superior customer experience. The combination of these three elements enables our customers to focus their time and attention on building and running their applications or businesses rather than managing the underlying infrastructure. Our Global Infrastructure & Technology Network Our global infrastructure and technology network, built on the foundation of open source scalable cloud-native technologies, allows us to deliver an exceptional developer experience and suite of infrastructure and software solutions to our customers spread across the globe. Our infrastructure is offered to our customers across 16 data centers worldwide that are connected by a high-speed private backbone, enabling our customers to deploy their solutions across nine different geographic regions. We lease data centers in the New York City and San Francisco metropolitan areas, as well as in Australia, Canada, Germany, India, the Netherlands, Singapore and the United Kingdom. These site locations were selected for their close proximity to key customer markets and allow access to global internet exchange points to provide consistent low-latency connectivity to large end-user networks. This allows our customers to choose where best to deploy the solution to optimize performance and minimize latency for their users. In addition, we utilize points of presence locations situated across the globe to improve website and application performance by allowing geographically dispersed users to receive content from a location nearest to them. We lease data center space from leading providers to provide us the flexibility to quickly enter new markets and align our global footprint with our go-to-market strategy. We expect to expand into additional new locations in the future. We work closely with hardware manufacturers when designing our server platforms to continue to reduce acquisition costs while at the same time optimizing reliability and performance for our customers. Our procurement and engineering teams work closely with manufacturers to align our long-term server strategy to future technology advancements. We staff our data center operations team to ensure that we can provide the physical security, reliability and availability necessary for our customersand that team additionally manages the physical server capacity to ensure that we 9 are able to meet our customers demands. Our network engineering team manages the global backbone to ensure that we are making the best connectivity peering agreements to get customer traffic to the destination via the best available path. Our security operations team actively monitors the cloud environment, responding to network incidents to ensure that customer impact is minimized and service availability is managed. We focus heavily on securing our network, products and customer data from potential security threats with a dedicated team of security professionals. We have implemented a comprehensive information security program, which is discussed in greater detail under Part I, Item 1C. Cybersecurity below, that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards designed to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our companys and our customers information. In combination, our infrastructure and network provide our customers with a reliable, highly-performant and cost-effective platform to confidently build, deploy and scale their optimal solution, from single node based applications to globally distributed systems. Our Product Portfolio We provide a variety of cloud products and services that are specifically designed to address the needs of startups and growing digital businesses. We listen carefully to our customers feedback so we understand what they want and need to simplify cloud computing for them. Our goal is to address the core needs of this underserved customer base instead of offering thousands of complex products and services that are more suited to large enterprise companies or companies looking to move from an on-premise environment to the cloud. We offer IaaS, PaaS, SaaS and AI/ML solutions to our customers. Our initial product, launched in 2012, was the Droplet, a virtual machine that provides flexibility to build, test, secure and grow customers applications from start-up to scale. Since then, we have successfully launched many new products, which honor our commitment to always provide a simple, reliable and affordable experience for our core customer base. We have expanded our product portfolio with product innovations such as Dedicated Droplets, Premium Droplets, Spaces, Managed Kubernetes, Managed Databases, App Platform, Functions and, most recently, our AI/ML offerings, which have proven our ability to successfully launch or acquire new products to market and serve our customers needs. We have developed a product roadmap designed to enhance our ability to offer secure, scalable and reliable solutions for customers to grow their applications or businesses. We also provide management and collaboration tools to enable our customers to monitor and manage their usage of our platform. IaaS Offerings. Our Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS) offerings include our compute, storage and networking products. We provide flexible server configurations sized for any application, attractive price-to-performance and highly predictable pricing that is the same across regions and usage volumes. Our current IaaS offerings include: Droplets. Droplets are our core compute offering. Developers can spin up the virtual machine of their choice in under a minute. We offer basic Droplets and Dedicated Droplets, such as general purpose, CPU-optimized, memory-optimized or storage-optimized configurations, which provide flexibility to build, test, secure and grow any application from start-up to scale. Our Premium Droplet offerings provide enhanced speed and memory performance, while maintaining our commitment to simplicity. Storage Offerings. Our storage solutions allow our customers to store and quickly access any amount of data reliably in the cloud. We offer several kinds of storage offerings, depending on the customers needs, including: Spaces (Object Storage): Our object storage with a built-in content delivery network (CDN) makes scaling easy, reliable and affordable. Our simple and predictable pricing makes this offering very attractive compared to our competitors. Volumes (Block Storage): Our block storage product allows customers to add more storage space and mix and match compute and storage to suit their database, file storage, application, service, mobile and backup needs. This provides supplemental storage beyond the generous local solid-state drive (SSD) offered with our compute offerings. Backups: Our automatically-created disk images of Droplets provide peace of mind and a sense of security to our customers. Our Backups offering allows frequent system-level backups, providing our customers with the ability to revert to an older state or create new Droplets. We 10 also provide the flexibility to customize backup windows, choose retention policies and elect which files to back up. In 2023, we introduced upgrades to our Backups offering and expanded the geographic availability of our Spaces offering to better address the increasing needs of our customers applications. Storage plays an essential role in our product roadmap and we expect to significantly improve the functionality of our storage offerings in the future, which we believe will also increase the usage of our IaaS and other offerings that could benefit from enhanced storage capabilities. Networking Offerings. We provide a suite of networking capabilities to secure and control the traffic to our customers applications. Data transfer costs can quickly become a major expense for the developer of any reasonably complex cloud application. At DigitalOcean, we provide a generous amount of bandwidth with each successive Droplet purchase. This bandwidth is pooled for the customers account and shared by all applications or resources running in their account, which we believe is a key differentiator for us in the marketplace. Our key networking product offerings include: Cloud Firewalls: A software service that allows customers to quickly secure their infrastructure from common vulnerabilities and define what services are visible on their infrastructure. Cloud Firewalls are free to our customers and are used for staging and production deployments of software. Managed Load Balancers: A software service that allows customers to load balance traffic to their software applications located on multiple Droplets, enabling them to scale their applications and improve availability, security and performance across their infrastructure in a few clicks with affordable pricing. Virtual Private Cloud (VPC): A private network interface for collections of DigitalOcean resources. VPC networks provide a more secure connection between resources because the network is inaccessible from the public internet and other VPC networks, enabling our customers to manage their information and data traffic between applications without exposure to the public internet. VPCs, including floating IP addresses, are available at no additional cost to our customers. PaaS Offerings. Our Platform-as-a-Service (PaaS) offerings provide a complete development and deployment environment. PaaS offerings include infrastructure as well as database management systems, application platforms, development tools and other services designed to support the complete web application lifecycle. Our current PaaS offerings include: Managed Databases. Our Managed Databases offering, a fully-managed database solution, provides our customers with the application performance they need without the operational demands that come with building and running a database server. We currently offer managed offerings for relational databases (SQL) such as PostgreSQL & MySQL, as well as NoSQL databases such as Redis. In addition, we offer DigitalOcean Managed MongoDB, a fully-managed database as a service offering in partnership with MongoDB and Dedicated CPU Managed MongoDB to boost the performance of MongoDB and enable users to migrate databases from any source to DigitalOcean Managed MongoDB with minimal downtime. Finally, our newly launched Managed Kafka offering provides our customers with the ability to build high-throughput, low-latency data streams of Kafka without the complexity of managing their infrastructure. Managed Kubernetes and Container Registry. Our easy-to-use Managed Kubernetes service provides scalability and portability for cloud-native applications. Customers can get started quickly and cheaply with our free control plane, inexpensive bandwidth and our free egress gateway, which give our customers even more confidence in leveraging our Kubernetes offering to deploy their code in the cloud. Alternatively, customers have the option to scale-up with our high availability control plane, which increases control plane availability and uptime. Our Managed Container Registry offering lets customers easily store and manage private container images for rapid deployment to our Managed Kubernetes service. App Platform. Our App Platform offering allows customers to build, deploy and scale applications quickly using a simple, fully-managed solution. We handle the infrastructure, application runtimes and 11 dependencies so that developers can push code to production in just a few clicks, enabling them to deliver applications to market faster and on a global scale. Functions. Our Functions offering is a serverless compute solution that leverages our App Platform product. Serverless computing has become a popular trend in cloud application development because it allows for freedom from server management and the ability to pay only for what you use. Our Functions offering runs on-demand, which simplifies the cloud programming experience and helps customers focus more on application development and business outcomes and less on managing the underlying infrastructure. Uptime. Our Uptime offering provides real-time uptime and latency alerts, allowing customers to quickly recover from incidents before their own customers are impacted. Alerts are triggered when customer assets are slow, down, or vulnerable to attack. SaaS Offerings. Our Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) offerings are designed for startups and growing digital businesses. Our current SaaS offerings include: Managed Hosting. Our Managed Hosting offering provides simple onboarding and day-to-day management for hosting that is purpose-built for startups and growing digital businesses looking to outsource their on-ramp to the internet and offload the complexities of cloud infrastructure so they can spend more time running and scaling their businesses. This offering is particularly attractive for startups and growing digital businesses without the knowledge or resources to fully manage their hosting infrastructure, including digital agencies, entrepreneurs creating eCommerce sites, bloggers, freelancers, and other users hosting on WordPress, PHP and Magento. Marketplace. We operate the DigitalOcean Marketplace, a platform where developers can find pre-configured applications and solutions quickly. Our Marketplace contains highly-curated everyday applications and cutting-edge technologies, providing customers access to the most efficient tools to build their businesses while removing the time and expense of research, configuration and manual setup. We work closely with partners to deliver a truly seamless experience for customers, creating the ability for developers to deploy thoroughly tested app environments with the click of a button on Droplets and Kubernetes clusters. The DigitalOcean Marketplace also offers add-ons that run in the cloud and are available on demand. More than 280 preconfigured one-click applications are available in the Marketplace, including WordPress, LAMP, Docker, Grafana, and Plesk, among others. AI/ML Offerings. In 2023, we acquired Paperspace, a leading provider of cloud infrastructure for highly scalable GPU-accelerated applications to enable customers to more easily test, develop and deploy AI/ML applications or augment and enhance existing AI/ML applications. Our current AI/ML offerings include: Machines. Our Machines offering provides customers with powerful and low-cost GPU virtual machines for scaling AI applications. Customers can choose between Bare Metal, which is a GPU server without any virtualization layer; Core Machine, which runs on top of virtualized hardware; or Gradient Machine, which is a scalable trained machine learning or deep learning model. Notebooks. Our Notebooks offering provides customers with a simple cloud workspace that runs on GPUs, providing a managed interactive development environment for exploring data and training and building machine learning models. Customers can launch either a Jupyter Notebook or a Notebook with a pre-built or personalized template. Deployments. Our Deployments offering provides customers with the ability to easily deploy their machine learning model as an API endpoint. Sales and Marketing Our sales and marketing teams work together closely to drive awareness and adoption of our platform, accelerate customer acquisition and expand our revenue from existing customers. These teams focus on inside sales, targeted outside sales, partnership and channel development, customer acquisition and self-service funnel optimization, and customer support and success. We have historically generated a significant majority of our revenue from our efficient self-service marketing model, which enables customers to get started on our platform very quickly and without the need for assistance. We focus heavily on enabling a self-service, low-friction model that makes it easy for users to try, adopt and use our products. We 12 attract visitors to our website through a combination of high-quality content, developer outreach and highly-targeted paid demand generation campaigns. By reducing the friction that typically accompanies the purchase of business software and eliminating the need for complicated and costly implementation and training, we have grown our customer base while avoiding the expensive customer acquisition costs typical of high-touch enterprise sales models. Furthermore, by creating an intentional marketing experience for a prospect to travel through different stages of the funnel, we are able to anticipate their needs in real-time at each step. We complement our efficient self-service customer acquisition model with a sales force focused on inside sales, outbound prospecting targeting specific use cases, volume expansion of our self-service customers, expanding our revenue in specific international markets and seeking partnership opportunities to drive revenue growth. We utilize a process-oriented and data-driven approach to sales that includes tracking numerous metrics such as sales conversion rates, velocity and time-to-close, and size of sales pipeline. Our sales team includes experienced sales engineers who fashion technical solutions for customers to convert their workloads from other cloud providers. Our customer success professionals focus on customer retention and customer expansion by adding value throughout the customer lifecycle as customers scale and expand their usage of our product portfolio. Customer success advocates will directly contact customers to determine if there are ways for us to augment their usage of our platform with additional services. We are also focused on partnership opportunities that introduce new avenues for customer growth, such as the DigitalOcean Partner Pod, which offers sales training, co-marketing opportunities and market development funds to help partners launch their campaigns and acquire new customers utilizing DigitalOcean products. We are committed to providing robust customer support to all customers, which we believe has been a strategic differentiator for us. The customer support team addresses account-related questions and provides high-quality technical advice and troubleshooting. Developers and engineers are a key part of the customer support team, and we offer technical support free of charge to all customers. In addition to our free support offering, we offer paid support plans, which allow customers to choose the paid support option that best suits their needs and provide customers with faster response times and dedicated support from technical managers. The customer engagement with customer support team also serves as an important feedback loop to our product and technology teams, helping us better understand the specific needs of our customers. This feedback has influenced, and will continue to influence, our product roadmap, the content strategy for our community tutorials and other business decisions. We closely track various metrics to ensure we are providing exceptional customer support. We internally monitor our customer satisfaction score (CSAT) and net promoter score (NPS) to gauge the quality of our interactions with customers and our ability to increase loyalty. We also have specific monthly service-level objectives (SLOs) for response and resolution times to ensure we maintain a high level of customer satisfaction. We intend to continue to invest in our sales and marketing capabilities to capitalize on our large and global market opportunity, while remaining very efficient in terms of sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue. Our Customers Our customer base is incredibly diverse with respect to technical competency, type of business, use case and geography. In terms of type of business and specific use cases, our customers primarily use our IaaS, PaaS, SaaS and AI/ML products for the following: SaaS applications across numerous industry verticals, including education, finance, advertising, e-commerce, media, gaming and many more; Customer relationship management (CRM) products, developer tools, API services and technology products and services; Digital agencies operating eCommerce or other websites for their customers; Startups and growing digital businesses launching AI/ML applications, including generative media, text analysis, natural language understanding, recommendation engines, and image classification; and Personal web projects and education-related services regarding cloud computing and modern technologies, whether it be programming languages, application frameworks or open source technologies. Our offerings give customers the ability to select their desired level of technical infrastructure management. Customers have the ability to choose from managing their own infrastructure and building their own bespoke solutions using our IaaS or AI/ML offerings, offloading the technical infrastructure entirely through our Managed Hosting offering or delegating certain aspects of the management using our managed PaaS or AI/ML offerings. 13 Our customers are spread across approximately 190 countries with approximately two-thirds of our revenue coming from customers located outside the United States in 2023. We have been successful in increasing our customer base, particularly with respect to Builders and Scalers, and our ARPU by expanding our product portfolio and optimizing our sales and marketing initiatives. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately 139,000 Builders and approximately 17,000 Scalers. Our ARPU, which consists of the aggregate revenue and customer counts for our Learners, Builders and Scalers, has increased from $65.83 in 2021 to $82.76 in 2022 to $90.99 in 2023. We have no material customer concentration, as our top 25 customers made up 7%, 10% and 10% of our revenue in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Our Community We focus heavily on building a large highly-engaged community that can connect and educate developers across the globe. Our developer community enables students, hobbyists and experienced developers alike to learn new skills and technologies and create and deliver new applications. The DigitalOcean community is based on forging genuine relationships through a series of meaningful and memorable interactions. We believe that our focus on community drives brand loyalty amongst a fast-growing developer community and spurs our community followers to become advocates for us and our platform. Our community education websites contain high-quality technical tutorials and a forum with tens of thousands of questions and answers that guide developers in creating and delivering modern applicationsnot just focused on DigitalOcean products and services, but relevant to any cloud service. Each year we host Hacktoberfest, which we believe is the largest hackathon in the world, with approximately 100,000 developers participating in 2023. We distribute our regular Currents market surveys to anyone who seeks market research trends about cloud and open source developments, whether they are a DigitalOcean customer or not. We operate the Hatch by DigitalOcean program to support entrepreneurs and startups more directly as they begin their journey by providing them with a robust set of benefits to help them succeed. Many of our Hatch participants have become loyal DigitalOcean customers after graduating from the program. Our approach of giving back to the community more than you receive helps drive strong brand loyalty for DigitalOcean across the global developer community. Competition The markets that we serve are highly competitive and rapidly evolving. With the introduction of new technologies and innovations, we expect the competitive environment to remain intense. We believe that the principal factors on which we compete include: ease of use and operation; speed of deployment; price, total cost of ownership and transparency; customer experience, support and service; community engagement and education; features, functionality and quality of tools; performance, reliability, scalability and security; brand awareness and reputation; geographic reach; and open source support. We compete primarily with large, diversified technology companies that focus on large enterprise customers and provide cloud computing as just a portion of the products and services that they offer. The primary vendors in this category include Amazon (AWS), Microsoft (Azure), Google (GCP), IBM (IBM Cloud), Alibaba (Alibaba Cloud) and Oracle (Oracle Cloud). 14 We also compete with smaller and/or niche cloud service providers that typically target individuals and smaller businesses, simple use cases and/or narrower geographic markets. Examples in this category include OVHcloud, Vultr, Akamai (Linode), Hetzner and Heroku. Our Cloudways offering competes with digital agencies and other managed hosting providers, including Kinsta and WP Engine. Finally, since our acquisition of Paperspace, we now compete with providers of AI/ML infrastructure, including Coreweave and Lambda Labs. Despite the competitive intensity, we believe we compete successfully on the basis of the factors listed above. We focus on solutions for startups and growing digital businessesand combine the power of simplicity, love for the developer community, an obsession for customer service and the advantages of open source. This differentiates us dramatically from the enterprise cloud competitors. At the same time, our ability to address complex use cases that allows customers to scale with us as they grow, differentiates us from the many niche competitors who have less robust and extensible offerings. Human Capital Management We believe that our employees and the culture we have established are critically important to our success. In order to continue to compete and succeed in our highly competitive and rapidly evolving market, it is crucial that we continue to attract, retain and motivate qualified employees. To support these objectives, we strive to maintain our company culture, offer competitive compensation and benefits, support the health and well-being of our employees, foster an inclusive, diverse and engaged workforce, maintain strong employee engagement and develop talent. The head of our People team provides regular reports on the progress of our human capital management metrics and initiatives, including our diversity programs, to our executive officers and the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2023, we had a total of 1,156 employees, including 659 located outside the United States. We also engage individuals through professional employer organizations and contractors on an as-needed basis. None of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. Our Culture We believe our culture is critical to our success and has delivered tangible financial and operational benefits for our customers, our employees and our stockholders. Our values guide our business, our product development, our practices and our brand. As our company continues to evolve and grow, our core values remain constant: Our community is bigger than just us. The global community of software developers and entrepreneurs have been the foundation and inspiration for everything we do. Simplicity in all we DO. Simplicity is a core value to us because it is a reminder to keep our customers top of mind in everything we do. We speak up when we have something to say and listen when others DO. With a focus on transparency and inclusivity, we want DigitalOcean to be a place where employees know where we stand and no matter a persons background or experiences, employees can find their voice and their place here. We are accountable to deliver on our commitments. Our customers, employees and investors place enormous trust in us, and we have to be accountable to deliver to all of you. Love is at our core. The love for our customers and for what we do in our jobs makes DigitalOcean a special place you hear it in the voices of our customers and our employees every time they talk about DigitalOcean. Compensation and Benefits We provide competitive compensation and benefits for our employees globally. Our compensation package includes base salary, cash bonuses, commissions (for our sales team), and long-term equity awards. We provide employees the opportunity to participate in an employee stock purchase plan, to foster a strong sense of ownership and align our employees interests with our long-term success. We maintain a global compensation program that is intended to promote a pay-for-performance culture that is both internally equitable as well as externally competitive. 15 In addition to cash and equity compensation, we also offer employees a wide array of benefits designed to be aligned with local reward practices and competitive with those offered by companies with whom we compete for talent. In the United States, these include health insurance, flexible personal time off, retirement benefits, a generous parental leave program, emotional well-being services through our Employee Assistance Program and a variety of additional resources to support employees overall well-being. We continue to evolve our programs to meet our employees health and wellness needs. While the philosophy around our benefits is the same worldwide, specific benefit offerings (including equity compensation) may vary in other countries due to local regulations and preferences. Remote-Friendly Work Since our inception, we have fostered a remote-friendly work culture that enables us to recruit and retain skilled professionals wherever they are located. The majority of our employees work remotely and our history and experience with managing a remote workforce has allowed us to grow our company and build our company culture while fostering the remote work experience. Operating remotely allows us access to a global talent pool that enables us to hire talented team members, regardless of location, providing a strong competitive advantage. While we intend to remain a remote-friendly company, we continue to look for ways for our employees to gather, including giving employees the opportunity to access shared work spaces and office spaces to engage with other employees or customers and hosting in-person events and team meetings. Diversity, Equity, Inclusion and Belonging (DEIB) We have a strong commitment to building a diverse workforce that reflects our values and the needs of our global customer base. We believe that a diverse and inclusive workforce brings a diversity of perspectives, which in turn fosters innovation and helps drive better business outcomes. We have launched multiple initiatives to further our goal of being more diverse and inclusive and supporting a sense of belonging within our current workforce, including mandatory training for employees and launching employee resource groups (ERGs), which are employee-led, voluntary groups that support professional development, strengthen our business and advance our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace. We currently have ERGs to support women, LGBTQIA+, military and veterans, early career professionals, and employees of African and Black descent. We believe forging and strengthening relationships with external DEIB partners is essential to our diversity strategy, and we are excited to continue to establish and build relationships to expand our reach. We also focus on creating a diverse pipeline of candidates for open roles. DigitalOcean is committed to pay equity, regardless of gender, ethnicity or other personal characteristics. To deliver on that commitment, we benchmark and set pay ranges based on market data and consider factors such as an employees role and experience and their job performance. Our goal is for our employee population to reflect the communities that we service and ensure equal total rewards opportunities for all employees regardless of gender identity, ethnicity, location, sexual orientation, disability status and more. To examine our progress, we monitor our diversity numbers across the company and analyze statistics regarding our manager population and individual contributor population, both through the lens of gender (globally) and ethnicity/race (U.S. only) to ensure that diversity exists across the company. We have demonstrated meaningful progress against this goal and continue to identify areas for continued improvement. Talent Development Talent development is a key aspect of the attraction and retention of our talent. We believe that employee growth is essential, and provide a number of resources and programs to support that commitment. We facilitate employee review cycles where employees have development conversations with their managers multiple times throughout the year. In addition, we offer our employees more than 250 courses and videos covering a wide range of topics from departmental specific skills to leadership and management training. We continually invest in our employees career growth and provide employees with a wide range of development opportunities, including learning, mentoring, coaching, and external development. Employee Engagement Employee engagement is key to helping us understand the employee experience, particularly as we expand and hire employees in new locations with different cultural norms. We conduct anonymous global engagement surveys regularly to measure the effectiveness of our people and culture initiatives and identify areas of strength and development opportunities among teams. These surveys are managed by a third-party vendor to encourage candor. The results are reviewed by senior 16 management, who analyze areas of progress or deterioration and work with their teams to determine which actions to take based on survey results. Social Responsibility In connection with our IPO in March 2021, we joined the Pledge 1% movement and committed to allocating $50 million over ten years to expand our social impact initiatives. In 2022, we launched DO Impact, our social impact effort designed to empower changemakers around the globe through products and philanthropy, enable our employees to do good in their communities, and ensure our footprint is sustainable. Since the launch of DO Impact, we have given more than $1.6 million in cash and $765,000 in infrastructure credits to over 1,600 deserving organizations all over the world that impact their local communities, as well as the broader social impact ecosystem. The pillars of DO Impact are as follows: DO for Nonprofits. We harness DigitalOcean technology, open source and technical expertise to support non-profit organizations, educational institutions, social enterprises and others who are working to advance social good. We have a product donation program that offers DigitalOcean infrastructure credits and resources to nonprofits and social enterprises. Through our previous program, Hollies Hub for Good, we have supported 2,762 organizations with donated credits. Employee Giving. We offer our employees a generous donation match program with respect to our employees charitable giving and also provide employees with credits at certain milestones to donate to a charitable organization of their choosing. In 2023, our employees donated over $175,000 to more than 700 nonprofits, which was matched 100% by our companys generous gift match program. In addition, in 2023, we launched our first-ever DO Day of Service, where employees were encouraged to donate one day of service to nonprofits. Initiative on Inclusive Entrepreneurship. We promote inclusive entrepreneurship for underrepresented communities by providing resources and training within those communities and highlighting the impactful work of entrepreneurs in the program through storytelling. Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG). We drive our ESG initiatives through a cross-departmental team that includes individuals from our social impact, legal, human resources and finance teams, to ensure adherence with best practices and compliance with regulatory requirements. Intellectual Property Intellectual property rights are important to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as license agreements, confidentiality provision, non-disclosure agreements with third parties and other contractual protections, to protect our intellectual property rights, including our proprietary technology, software, know-how and brand. We use open source software in our services. As of December 31, 2023, we owned eleven registered trademarks in the United States and eleven registered trademarks in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. We have filed applications for registration for two additional trademarks in the United States and two additional trademarks in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. In addition, we own one International Registration through the World Intellectual Property Organization, which has been extended to registrations in seven additional jurisdictions. As of December 31, 2023, we owned five issued patents and had one patent application pending for examination in the United States. The issued patents are each scheduled to expire in 2039 and 2040 and the pending patent application, if issued, would be scheduled to expire in 2039. In addition, we license third-party software and use open source software and other technologies that are used in the provision of or incorporated into some elements of our services. Many parts of our business utilize proprietary technology and/or licensed technology, including open source software. We control access to and use of our proprietary technology and other confidential information through the use of internal and external controls, including contractual protections with employees, contractors, customers, vendors and partners. Our policy is to require all employees and independent contractors to sign agreements assigning to us any inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, developments, processes and other intellectual property generated by them on our behalf and under which they agree to protect our confidential information. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our customers, vendors and other partners. See Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors for a more comprehensive description of risks related to our intellectual property. 17 Governmental Regulation Our business is and will continue to be subject to extensive U.S. federal and state and foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations involving privacy, data protection, content regulation, security, intellectual property, artificial intelligence, competition, taxation, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, anti-money laundering, and other similar laws. Many of these laws and regulations are still evolving and are likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future, and these laws and regulations can vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. The costs of complying with these laws and regulations are high and are likely to increase in the future. We are also subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that govern or restrict our business and activities in certain countries and with certain persons, including the U.S. Commerce Departments Export Administration Regulations and economic and trade sanctions regulations maintained by the U.S. Treasury Departments Office of Foreign Assets Control. Compliance with these laws, rules, and regulations has not had, and is not expected to have, a material effect upon our capital expenditures, results of operations, or competitive position. Nevertheless, compliance with existing or future governmental regulations, including, but not limited to, those pertaining to global trade, business acquisitions, consumer and data protection, and taxes, could have a material impact on our business in subsequent periods. For a more comprehensive discussion of the risks we face from regulation and compliance matters, see the Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in 2012 under the name Digital Ocean, Inc. In 2016, as part of a restructuring, Digital Ocean, Inc. was converted into DigitalOcean, LLC, and DigitalOcean Holdings, Inc. was formed as the ultimate parent holding company. We completed our initial public offering in March 2021 and our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DOCN. Our principal executive offices are located at 101 6th Avenue, New York, New York 10013, and our telephone number is (646) 827-4366. Our website address is www.digitalocean.com. Available Information Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). Such reports and other information filed by us with the SEC are available free of charge on our website at www.investors.digitalocean.com when such reports are available on the SECs website. The SEC maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The information contained on the websites referenced in this Annual Report on Form 10-K is not incorporated by reference into this filing. Further, our references to website URLs are intended to be inactive textual references only. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results and an investment in our common stock are subject to various risks and uncertainties. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We expect fluctuations in our financial results, making it difficult to project future results, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors with respect to our results of operations, our stock price and the value of your investment could decline. Our results of operations have fluctuated in the past and are expected to fluctuate in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, our past results may not be indicative of our future performance. In particular, you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Even if our revenue continues to increase, our revenue growth rate may decline in the future as a result of a variety of factors, including the maturation of our business. Overall growth of our revenue depends on a number of factors as described in more detail under the heading Part I, Item 1. Business in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as the factors set forth below. We may not successfully accomplish any of our objectives and, as a 18 result, it is difficult for us to forecast our future results of operations. If the assumptions that we use to plan our business are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our market, we may be unable to maintain consistent revenue or revenue growth, our stock price could be volatile, and it may be difficult to achieve and maintain profitability. In addition to the other risks described herein, factors that may affect our results of operations include the following: fluctuations in demand for or pricing and usage of our platform and products; our ability to attract new customers and retain existing customers; customer expansion rates; integration of new products; timing and amount of our investments and capital expenditures related to successfully optimizing, utilizing and expanding our data center facilities; the investment in and integration of new products and features relative to investments in our existing infrastructure and products; our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses, and the timing of payment for expenses; the amount and timing of non-cash expenses, including stock-based compensation, goodwill impairments and other non-cash charges; the amount and timing of costs associated with recruiting, training and integrating new employees and retaining and motivating existing employees; the effects of acquisitions, including the recent Paperspace acquisition and previous Cloudways acquisition, and their integration; general economic conditions, both domestically and internationally, and economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers participate; the impact of new accounting pronouncements; changes in regulatory or legal environments that may cause us to, among other elements, be unable to continue operating in a particular market, remove certain customers from our platform, and/or incur expenses associated with compliance; changes in the competitive dynamics of our market, including consolidation among competitors or customers or new entrants into our market; our ability to control fraudulent registrations and usage of our platform, reduce bad debt and lessen capacity constraints on our data centers, servers and equipment; and significant security breaches of, technical difficulties with, or interruptions to, the delivery and use of our products and platform capabilities. Any of these and other factors, or the cumulative effect of some of these factors, may cause our results of operations to vary significantly. If our results of operations fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts who follow our stock, the price of our common stock could decline substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. We have a history of operating losses and we may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred significant losses in the past and continue to have an accumulated deficit. While we have experienced revenue growth in recent periods, we are not certain whether or when we will obtain a high enough volume of sales to sustain or increase our growth or maintain profitability in the future. We also expect our costs and expenses will increase in future periods, which could negatively affect our future results of operations if our revenue also does not increase. Our efforts to grow our business may be costlier than we expect, or the rate of our growth in revenue may be slower than we expect, and we may not be able to increase our revenue enough to offset our increased operating expenses. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including the other risks described herein, and unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications or delays, and other unknown events. If we are unable to sustain profitability, the value of our business and common stock may significantly decrease. 19 In addition, we expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on: our technology infrastructure, including systems architecture, scalability, availability, performance, security, hardware, equipment and other capital expenditures, including expenses to increase or maintain data center capacity and to successfully optimize and operate data center facilities; our sales and marketing organization to engage our existing and prospective customers, increase brand awareness and drive adoption of our products; product development, including the development of new products and new functionality for our platform as well as investments in both further optimizing our existing products and infrastructure and expanding our integrations and other add-ons to existing products and services; acquisitions or strategic investments; and general administration, including increased legal and accounting expenses. Additionally, we may encounter unforeseen operating expenses, difficulties, complications, delays, and other unknown factors that may result in losses in future periods. If our revenue growth does not meet our expectations in future periods, our business, financial position and results of operations may be harmed, and we may not sustain profitability in the future. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and disclosure