Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or the future financial performance of Digimarc, that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Please see the discussion regarding forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the disclosures made in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 filed on February 25, 2016 (our 2015 Annual Report), and other reports and filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to Digimarc, we, our and us refer to Digimarc Corporation. All dollar amounts are in thousands except per share amounts or unless otherwise noted. Percentages within the following tables may not foot due to rounding. Digimarc, Digimarc Discover and Guardian are registered trademarks of Digimarc Corporation. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q also includes trademarks and trade names owned by other parties, and all other such trademarks and trade names mentioned in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are the property of their respective owners. Overview Digimarc Corporation enables governments and enterprises around the world to give digital identities to media and objects that computers can sense and recognize and to which they can react. We have developed the Digimarc Discover and Digimarc Barcode Intuitive Computing Platform that are designed to optimize the identification of all consumer brand impressions, wherever and whenever they may appear, facilitating modern mobile-centric shopping. The platform includes means to embed Digimarc Barcodes, invisible and inaudible barcode-like information that is recognizable by smartphones, tablets, industrial scanners, and other computer interfaces into virtually all forms of media content, including consumer product packaging. Digimarc Barcodes have many applications, including facilitating remarkably faster scanning of products at retail checkout as well as improved engagement with smartphone-equipped consumers. The Digimarc Barcode is robust yet imperceptible by people in ordinary use, allowing for reliable, efficient, economical, globally scalable automatic identification of media without visible computer codes like traditional barcodes. Our media identification and discovery innovations enable our business partners to create numerous applications across a wide range of media content, including solutions that: Improve the speed of retail checkout; Provide simple and intuitive mobile customer engagement experiences in stores; Quickly and reliably identify and effectively manage music, movies, television programming, digital images, e-books, documents and other printed materials, especially in light of non-linear distribution over the Internet; Deter counterfeiting of money, media and goods, and piracy of e-books, movies and music; Support new digital media distribution models and methods to monetize media content; Leverage the power of ubiquitous computing to instantly link consumers to a wealth of information and/or interactive experiences related to the media and objects they encounter each day; Provide consumers with more choice and access to media content when, where and how they want it; Enhance imagery and video by associating metadata or authenticating media content for government and commercial uses; and Better secure identity documents to enhance national security and combat identity theft and fraud. The Intuitive Computing Platform has a proprietary foundation in a signal processing innovation known as digital watermarking, which allows imperceptible digital information to be embedded in all forms of digitally designed, produced or 16 Table of Contents distributed media content and many physical objects, including photographs, movies, music, television, personal identification documents, financial instruments, industrial parts and product packages. We refer to the embedded information as the Digimarc Barcode. This digital information can be detected and read by a wide range of computers, smartphones, tablets and other digital devices. Our inventions allow our business partners and customers to provide persistent digital identities for virtually any media content that is digitally processed at some point during its lifecycle. The technology can be applied to printed materials, video, audio, and images to supply a wide range of patented consumer engagement, media management and security solutions across multiple consumer and government industry sectors. Over the years our enabling software and business processes, and associated intellectual property portfolio have grown to encompass many related technologies. We provide solutions directly and through our business partners. Our inventions provide a powerful element of document security, giving rise to a long-term relationship with a consortium of central banks (Central Banks), and many leading companies in the information technology industry. We and our business partners have successfully propagated the use of our technology in music, movies, television broadcasts, digital images, e-books and printed materials. Digimarc Barcodes have been used in these applications to improve media rights and asset management, reduce piracy and counterfeiting losses, improve marketing programs, permit more efficient and effective distribution of valuable media content and enhance consumer entertainment and commercial experiences. Digimarc Barcodes are easily embedded into all forms of media and are imperceptible to human senses, but quickly detected by computers, networks or other digital devices like smartphones and tablets. Unlike traditional barcodes and tags, our solution does not require publishers to give up valuable visual space in magazines and newspapers; nor does it impact the overall layout or aesthetics of the publication. Digimarc Barcodes are imperceptible to people and do all that visible barcodes do, but performs better. Our Digimarc Discover platform delivers a range of rich media experiences to its readers on their smartphones or tablets across multiple media including print, audio, video and packaging. Unique to the Digimarc Discover platform is its seamless multi-model use of various content identification technologies as needed, including Digimarc Barcode when present. We introduced Digimarc Barcodes for use in consumer product packaging in 2014. These Digimarc Barcodes can contain the same information found in traditional universal product codes (UPC). The UPC information is invisibly repeated multiple times over the entire package surface. We partnered with Datalogic, a global leader in Automatic Data Capture and Industrial Automation markets and producer of barcode readers, in introducing the Digimarc Barcode to the consumer product packaging market. The first retail scanner enabled was Datalogics Magellan TM 9800i multi-plane imaging scanner. Since then additional scanner vendors and other channel partners have announced support for the platform. Digimarc Barcodes can also connect mobile-enabled consumers directly from packaging to engaging mobile experiences such as additional product information, special offers, recommendations, reviews, social networks and more. Our intellectual property portfolio of patents contain many innovations in digital watermarking, pattern recognition (sometimes referred to as fingerprinting), digital rights management and related fields. To protect our inventions, we have implemented an extensive intellectual property protection program that relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and nondisclosure agreements and other contracts. As a result, we believe we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields, with approximately 1,150 U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications as of March 31, 2016. We continue to develop and broaden our portfolio in the fields of media identification and management technology and related applications and systems. We devote significant resources to developing and protecting our inventions and continuously seek to identify and evaluate potential licensees for our patents. The patents in our portfolio have a life of approximately 20 years from the effective filing date, and up to 17 years after the patent has been granted. The market for patent licensing has become more challenging in recent years. As a result, we have shifted our focus from direct monetization via enforcement and licensing to: facilitating progress toward the realization of our vision to enrich everyday living via pervasive, intuitive computing; encouraging large scale adoption of our technologies by industry leaders; improving our financial performance by enhancing our competitive differentiation; increasing the scale and rate of growth of our products and services business; and laying a foundation for continuing innovation. For a discussion of activities and costs related to our research and development, read the section titled Results of Operations Summary Research, development and engineering. 17 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Detailed information on our critical accounting policies and estimates are set forth in our 2015 Annual Report in Part II, Item 7 thereof (Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), under the caption Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, which is incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations The following table presents statements of operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to the three-month period relate to the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 and all changes discussed with respect to such period reflect changes compared to the three-month period ended March 31, 2015. Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Percentages are percent of total revenue Revenue: Service 58 % 58 % Subscription 26 29 License 16 13 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Service 26 26 Subscription 12 13 License 2 1 Total cost of revenue 39 40 Gross profit 61 60 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 53 35 Research, development and engineering 59 51 General and administrative 39 37 Intellectual property 8 6 Total operating expenses 159 129 Operating loss (98 ) (70 ) Other income, net 1 Loss before income taxes (97 ) (69 ) (Provision) benefit for income taxes Net loss (97 )% (69 )% Summary Total revenue for the three-months ended March 31, 2016 decreased $0.4 million, or 7%, to $5.6 million compared to the same period in 2015 as a result of lower service and subscription revenue, partially offset by higher license revenue. 18 Table of Contents Total operating expenses for the three-months ended March 31, 2016 increased $1.1 million, or 14%, to $8.9 million compared to the same period in 2015, primarily reflecting higher investment in sales and marketing as we continue to focus on market development and delivery of Digimarc Discover and Digimarc Barcode. Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Revenue: Service $ 3,250 $ 3,501 $ (251 ) (7 )% Subscription 1,463 1,716 (253 ) (15 )% License 867 772 95 12 % Total $ 5,580 $ 5,989 $ (409 ) (7 )% Revenue (as % of total revenue): Service 58 % 58 % Subscription 26 % 29 % License 16 % 13 % Total 100 % 100 % Service. Service revenue consists primarily of software development and consulting services. The majority of service revenue arrangements are structured as time and materials consulting agreements. Most of our service revenue is derived from contracts with the Central Banks and government agency contractors. The agreements range from several months to several years in length, and our longer term contracts are subject to work plans that are reviewed and agreed upon at least annually. These contracts generally provide for billing hours worked at predetermined rates and, to a lesser extent, reimbursement for third party costs and services. Increases or decreases in the services provided under these contracts are generally subject to both volume and price changes. The volume of work is generally negotiated at least annually and can be modified as the customers needs change. We also have provisions in our longer term contracts that allow for specific hourly rate price increases on an annual basis to account for cost of living variables. Contracts with government agency contractors are generally shorter term in nature, less linear in billings and less predictable than our longer term contracts because the contracts with government agency contractors are subject to government budgets and funding. The decrease in service revenue for the three-month period was primarily due to the timing of program work with a government agency contractor and the expiration of the minimum support services to Intellectual Ventures (IV). Subscription. Subscription revenue includes revenue from the sale of Digimarc Discover, Digimarc Barcode and Guardian products and services, and is generally recurring in nature, paid in advance and recognized over the term of the subscription. The decrease in subscription revenue for the three-month period was primarily due to lower software license revenue, which is recognized over the associated 12-month support period, partially offset by growth in Digimarc Barcode. License. License revenue originates primarily from licensing our intellectual property where we receive license fees and/or royalties as our income stream. The increase in license revenue for the three-month period was primarily due to higher reported royalties from existing licensees. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Revenue by geography: Domestic $ 1,133 $ 1,687 $ (554 ) (33 )% International 4,447 4,302 145 3 % Total $ 5,580 $ 5,989 $ (409 ) (7 )% Revenue (as % of total revenue): Domestic 20 % 28 % International 80 % 72 % Total 100 % 100 % 19 Table of Contents The decrease in domestic revenue for the three-month period was primarily the result of lower service and subscription revenue among domestic customers. The increase in international revenue for the three-month period was primarily the result of higher license revenue among international customers. Cost of Revenue Service . Cost of service revenue primarily includes costs that are allocated from research, development and engineering, sales and marketing and intellectual property that relate directly to performing services under our customer contracts and direct costs of program delivery for both personnel and operating expenses. Costs include: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of our software developers, quality assurance personnel, product managers, business development managers and other personnel where we bill our customers for time and materials costs; payments to outside contractors that are billed to customers; charges for equipment directly used by customers; depreciation and other charges for machinery, equipment and software directly used by customers; travel costs directly attributable to service and development contracts; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Subscription . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of operations personnel; cost of outside contractors that provide operational support; amortization of existing technology acquired in the acquisition of Attributor Corporation; Internet service provider connectivity charges and image search data fees to support the services offered to our subscription customers; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. License . Cost of license revenue primarily includes: amortization of capitalized patent costs and patent maintenance fees; license costs from third parties; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Gross Profit: Service $ 1,818 $ 1,923 $ (105 ) (5 )% Subscription 801 962 (161 ) (17 )% License 771 688 83 12 % Total $ 3,390 $ 3,573 $ (183 ) (5 )% Gross Profit (as % of related revenue components): Service 56 % 55 % Subscription 55 % 56 % License 89 % 89 % Total 61 % 60 % 20 Table of Contents The decrease in total gross profit for the three-month period was due primarily to lower revenue. Operating Expenses We allocate certain costs of research, development and engineering, sales and marketing, and intellectual property to cost of revenue when they relate directly to our customer contracts. We record all remaining, or residual, costs as sales and marketing, research, development and engineering, general and administrative, and intellectual property expenses. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase Percent Increase Sales and marketing $ 2,955 $ 2,090 $ 865 41 % Sales and marketing (as % of total revenue) 53 % 35 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of sales and marketing employees and product managers; travel and market research costs, and costs associated with marketing programs, such as trade shows, public relations and new product launches; professional services and outside contractors for product and marketing initiatives; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three-month period was due primarily to: increased headcount and compensation-related expenses of $0.5 million; increased marketing and professional fees of $0.2 million related to market development activities; and increased charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of $0.1 million, primarily related to increased headcount. Research, development and engineering Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase Percent Increase Research, development and engineering $ 3,305 $ 3,084 $ 221 7 % Research, development and engineering (as % of total revenue) 59 % 51 % Research, development and engineering expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense, recruiting and related costs of software and hardware developers and quality assurance personnel; payments to outside contractors; the purchase of materials and services for product development; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in research, development and engineering expenses for the three-month period was due primarily to increased headcount and compensation-related expenses of $0.2 million. 21 Table of Contents General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Decrease Percent Decrease General and administrative $ 2,170 $ 2,206 $ (36 ) (2 )% General and administrative (as % of total revenue) 39 % 37 % We incur general and administrative costs in the functional areas of finance, legal, human resources, executive and board of directors. Costs for facilities and information technology are also managed as part of the general and administrative processes and are allocated to this area as well as each of the areas in cost of revenue, sales and marketing, research, development and engineering and intellectual property. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense and related costs of general and administrative personnel; third party and professional fees associated with legal, accounting and human resources; costs associated with being a public company; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. General and administrative expenses were relatively flat for the three-month period. Intellectual property Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase Percent Increase Intellectual property $ 434 $ 367 $ 67 18 % Intellectual property (as % of total revenue) 8 % 6 % We incur intellectual property expenses that arise primarily from costs associated with documenting, applying for, and maintaining domestic and international patents and trademarks. Gross expenditures for intellectual property costs, before reflecting the effect of capitalized patent costs, primarily consist of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense and related costs of attorneys and legal assistants; third party costs, including filing and governmental regulatory fees and fees for outside legal counsel and translation costs, each incurred in the patent process; consulting costs related to marketing our intellectual property portfolio; charges to write-off previously capitalized patent costs for patent assets we abandon; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Intellectual property expenses can vary from period to period based on the level of capitalized patent activity. The increase in intellectual property expense for the three-month period resulted primarily from increased compensation-related expenses and increased write-off of abandoned patent costs. 22 Table of Contents Stock-based compensation Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Cost of revenue $ 173 $ 185 $ (12 ) (6 )% Sales and marketing 212 159 53 33 % Research, development and engineering 325 287 38 13 % General and administrative 501 518 (17 ) (3 )% Intellectual property 72 68 4 6 % Total $ 1,283 $ 1,217 $ 66 5 % Stock-based compensation expense was relatively flat for the three-month period. We anticipate incurring an additional $12,850 in stock-based compensation expense through March 2020 for awards outstanding as of March 31, 2016. Other income, net Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase Percent Increase Other income, net $ 46 $ 23 $ 23 100 % Other income, net (as % of total revenue) 1 % * * Less than 1% The increase in other income, net for the three-month period was primarily due to changes in foreign currency and higher interest income as a result of higher interest rates on cash and investments. Income Taxes The (provision) benefit for income taxes for the three-months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 reflects current taxes, deferred taxes, and withholding taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions. The effective tax rate for the three-months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was 0% and 0%, respectively, because we have a full valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance against deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2016 was $17,682, an increase of $2,262 from $15,420 as of December 31, 2015. We continually assess the applicability of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Based upon the positive and negative evidence available as of March 31, 2016, and largely due to the cumulative loss incurred by us over the last three years, which is considered a significant piece of negative evidence when assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, a full valuation allowance is recorded against our deferred tax assets. 23 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Working capital $ 34,158 $ 37,610 Current ratio (1) 11.1:1 9.0:1 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities $ 33,850 $ 36,187 Long-term marketable securities $ 2,046 $ 2,999 Total cash, cash equivalents and all marketable securities $ 35,896 $ 39,186 (1) The current ratio is calculated by dividing total current assets by total current liabilities. The $3.3 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities resulted primarily from: cash used in operations; purchases of property and equipment and capitalized patent costs; and purchases of common stock related to the vesting of restricted stock; partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and trade accounts receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions and at times deposits may exceed insured limits. Marketable securities primarily include federal agency notes, U.S. treasuries, commercial paper, corporate notes, pre-refunded municipal bonds and certificates of deposits. Our investment policy requires the portfolio to be invested to ensure that the greater of $3 million or 7% of the invested funds will be available within 30 days notice. Other than cash used for operating needs, which may include short-term marketable securities, our investment policy limits our credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of financial instrument by limiting the maximum of 5% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities or $1 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one issuer except for the U.S. government, U.S. federal agencies and U.S. backed securities, which have no limits, at the time of purchase. Our investment policy also limits our credit exposure by limiting to a maximum of 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, or $15 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one industry category (e.g., financial or energy industries) at the time of purchase. As a result, we believe our credit risk associated with cash and investments to be minimal. A decline in the market value of any security below cost that is deemed to be other-than-temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. To determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider whether we have the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price recovery and evidence indicating that the cost of the investment is recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. There have been no other-than-temporary impairments identified or recorded by us. Operating Cash Flow. The components of operating cash flows were: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 Dollar Increase (Decrease) Percent Increase (Decrease) Net loss $ (5,435 ) $ (4,150 ) $ (1,285 ) (31 )% Non-cash items 1,912 1,832 80 4 % Changes in operating assets and liabilities 1,315 282 1,033 366 % Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,208 ) $ (2,036 ) $ (172 ) (8 )% Cash flows used in operating activities for the three-month period increased by $0.2 million, primarily as the result of a higher net loss, partially offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities. The increase from changes in operating assets and liabilities for the three-month period was primarily due to higher collections of accounts receivable. 24 Table of Contents Cash flows provided by investing activities for the three-month period increased by $6.9 million from $0.6 million to $7.5 million, primarily as a result of higher net maturities of marketable securities. Cash flows from financing activities for the three-month period decreased by $0.8 million from $0.4 million provided to $0.4 million used, primarily as a result of lower stock option exercises. Future Cash Expectations We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances will satisfy our projected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We have a $100 million shelf registration statement in place, of which $30 million was allocated for sales of shares of our common stock under an Equity Distribution Agreement with Wells Fargo Securities, LLC. There are no shares remaining to be sold under the Equity Distribution Agreement. We may use similar or other financing means to raise working capital in the future, if necessary, to support continued investment in our growth initiatives. We may also raise capital in the future to fund acquisitions and/or investments in complementary businesses, technologies or product lines. If it becomes necessary to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to do so, or if these funds are available, they may not be available on satisfactory terms. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the contractual obligations disclosed in our 2015 Annual Report, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. Words such as may, should, could, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, project, estimate, continue, variations of such terms or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, or other statements made by us, are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting us, and are subject to uncertainties and factors (including those specified below), which are difficult to predict and, in many instances, are beyond our control. As a result, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any such forward-looking statements, and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements relating to: concentration of revenue with few customers comprising a large majority of the revenue; revenue trends and expectations; our future level of investment in our business, including investment in research, development and engineering of products and technology, development and protection of our intellectual property, sales growth initiatives and development of new market opportunities; our ability to improve margins; anticipated expenses, costs, margins, provision for income taxes and investment activities in the foreseeable future; anticipated revenue to be generated from current contracts and as a result of new programs; variability of contracted arrangements; our profitability in future periods; business opportunities that could require that we seek additional financing; the size and growth of our markets; the existence of international growth opportunities and our future investment in such opportunities; the sources of our future revenue; our expected short-term and long-term liquidity positions; our capital expenditure and working capital requirements and our ability to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs through cash flow from operations; 25 Table of Contents capital market conditions, interest rate volatility and other limitations on the availability of capital, which could have an impact on our cost of capital and our ability to access the capital markets; our use of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in upcoming quarters; anticipated levels of backlog in future periods; the success of Digimarc Discover and Digimarc Barcode; protection, development and monetization of our intellectual property portfolio; and other risks detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of our 2015 Annual Report. We believe that the risk factors specified above and the risk factors identified in Part I, Item 1A of our 2015 Annual Report, among others, could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors and that there may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us or by persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.