Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis o f Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contains forward-looking statements relating to future events or the future financial performance of Digimarc that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements. Please see the discussion regarding forward-looking statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Readers are also urged to carefully review and consider the disclosures made in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors) of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in the audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 filed on February 23, 2017 (our 2016 Annual Report), and other reports and filings made with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to Digimarc, we, our and us refer to Digimarc Corporation. All dollar amounts are in thousands except per share amounts or unless otherwise noted. Percentages within the following tables may not foot due to rounding. Digimarc, Digimarc Discover and Guardian are registered trademarks of Digimarc Corporation. This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q also includes trademarks and trade names owned by other parties, and all other such trademarks and trade names mentioned in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are the property of their respective owners. Overview Digimarc Corporation, an Oregon corporation founded in 2008, enables governments and enterprises around the world to give digital identities to media and objects that computers can sense and recognize and to which they can react. We have developed Digimarc Discover , Digimarc Barcode and the Intuitive Computing Platform that are designed to optimize the identification of all consumer brand impressions, wherever and whenever they may appear, facilitating modern mobile-centric shopping. The platform includes means to embed Digimarc Barcodes, invisible and inaudible barcode-like information that is recognizable by smartphones, tablets, industrial scanners, and other computer interfaces into virtually all forms of media content, including consumer product packaging. Digimarc Barcodes have many applications, including facilitating remarkably faster scanning of products at retail checkout as well as improved engagement with smartphone-equipped consumers. The Digimarc Barcode is robust yet imperceptible by people in ordinary use, allowing for reliable, efficient, economical, globally scalable, automatic identification of media without visible computer codes like traditional barcodes. Our media identification and discovery innovations enable our business partners to create numerous applications across a wide range of media content, including solutions that: Improve the speed of retail checkout; Provide simple and intuitive mobile customer engagement experiences in stores; Quickly and reliably identify and effectively manage music, movies, television programming, digital images, e-publications, documents and other printed materials, especially in light of non-linear distribution over the Internet; Deter counterfeiting of money, media and goods, and piracy of e-publications, movies and music; Support new digital media distribution models and methods to monetize media content; Leverage the power of ubiquitous computing to instantly link consumers to a wealth of information and/or interactive experiences related to the media and objects they encounter each day; Provide consumers with more choice and access to media content when, where and how they want it; Enhance imagery and video by associating metadata or authenticating media content for government and commercial uses; and Better secure identity documents to enhance national security and combat identity theft and fraud. 17 Our Intuitive Computing Platform has a proprietary foundation in signal processing innovation known as digital watermarking, which allows imperceptible digital information to be embedded in all forms of digitally designed, produced or distributed media content and many physical objects, including photographs, movies, music, television, personal identification doc uments, financial instruments, industrial parts and product packages. We refer to the embedded information as the Digimarc Barcode. This digital information can be detected and read by a wide range of computers, smartphones, tablets and other digital devic es. Our inventions allow our business partners and customers to provide persistent digital identities for virtually any media content that is digitally processed at some point during its lifecycle. Our technology can be applied to printed materials, video, audio, and images to supply a wide range of consumer engagement, media management and security solutions across multiple consumer and government industry sectors. Over the years our enabling software and business processes, and associated intellectual property portfolio have grown to encompass many related technologies. We provide our solutions directly and through our business partners. Our inventions provide a powerful element of document security, giving rise to a long-term relationship with a consortium of central banks (the Central Banks), and many leading companies in the information technology industry. We and our business partners have successfully propagated the use of our technology in music, movies, television broadcasts, digital images, e-publications and printed materials. Digimarc Barcodes have been used in these applications to improve media rights and asset management, reduce piracy and counterfeiting losses, improve marketing programs, permit more efficient and effective distribution of valuable media content and enhance consumer entertainment and commercial experiences. Digimarc Barcodes can be used to enhance all forms of media and are imperceptible to human senses, but quickly detected by computers, networks or other digital devices like smartphones and tablets. Unlike traditional barcodes and tags, our solution does not require publishers to give up valuable visual space in magazines and newspapers; nor does it impact the overall layout or aesthetics of the publication for readers. Digimarc Barcodes are imperceptible in normal use and do all that visible barcodes do, but perform better. Our Digimarc Discover platform delivers a range of rich media experiences to its readers on their smartphones or tablets across multiple media formats, including print, audio, video and packaging. Unique to the Digimarc Discover platform is its seamless multi-model use of various content identification technologies as needed, including Digimarc Barcode when present. In January 2014, we introduced Digimarc Barcodes for use in consumer product packaging. These Digimarc Barcodes can contain the same information found in traditional universal product codes (UPC). The UPC information is invisibly repeated multiple times over the entire package surface. We partnered with Datalogic, a global leader in automatic data capture and industrial automation markets and producer of barcode readers, in introducing the Digimarc Barcode to the consumer product packaging market. The first retail scanner enabled was Datalogics Magellan TM 9800i multi-plane imaging scanner. Since then additional scanner vendors and other channel partners have announced support for the Digimarc Barcode platform. Digimarc Barcodes can also connect mobile-enabled consumers directly from packaging to engaging mobile experiences such as additional product information, special offers, recommendations, reviews, social networks and more. Our intellectual property contains many innovations in digital watermarking, content recognition (sometimes referred to as fingerprinting), digital rights management and related fields. To protect our inventions, we have implemented an extensive intellectual property protection program that relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and nondisclosure agreements and other contracts. As a result, we believe we have one of the worlds most extensive patent portfolios in digital watermarking and related fields, with approximately 1,100 U.S. and foreign patents and pending patent applications as of March 31, 2017. We continue to develop and broaden our portfolio in the fields of media identification and management technology and related applications and systems. We devote significant resources to developing and protecting our inventions and continuously seek to identify and evaluate potential licensees for our patents. The patents in our portfolio have a life of approximately 20 years from the effective filing date, and up to 17 years after the patent has been granted. The market for patent licensing has become more challenging in recent years. As a result, we have shifted our focus from direct monetization via enforcement and licensing to facilitating progress toward the realization of our vision to enrich everyday living via pervasive, intuitive computing by; encouraging large scale adoption of our technologies by industry leaders; improving our financial performance by enhancing our competitive differentiation; increasing the scale and rate of growth of our products and services business; and laying a foundation for continuing innovation. 18 For a discussion of activities and costs related to our research and development, see Results of Operations Summary Research, development and engineering. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Detailed information about our critical accounting policies and estimates is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our 2016 Annual Report (Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations), under the caption Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates, which is incorporated by reference into this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Results of Operations The following table presents statements of operations data for the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue. Unless otherwise indicated, all references in this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations to the three month period relate to the three month period ended March 31, 2017 and all changes discussed with respect to such periods reflect changes compared to the three month period ended March 31, 2016. Three Three Months Months Ended Ended March 31, March 31, 2017 2016 Percentages are percent of total revenue Revenue: Service 61 % 58 % Subscription 24 26 License 16 16 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Service 27 26 Subscription 9 12 License 2 2 Total cost of revenue 38 39 Gross profit 62 61 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 66 53 Research, development and engineering 57 59 General and administrative 39 39 Intellectual property 6 8 Total operating expenses 168 159 Operating loss (106 ) (98 ) Other income, net 2 1 Loss before income taxes (104 ) (97 ) Benefit (provision) for income taxes 2 Net loss (102 %) (97 %) Summary Total revenue for the three month period increased 9% to $6.1 million, primarily as a result of higher service revenue. Total operating expenses for the three month period increased 15% to $10.2 million, primarily reflecting higher investment in sales, marketing, and engineering as we continue to address important opportunities in market development and delivery of Digimarc Discover and Digimarc Barcode. 19 Revenue Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue: Service $ 3,696 $ 3,250 $ 446 14 % Subscription 1,445 1,463 (18 ) (1 )% License 950 867 83 10 % Total $ 6,091 $ 5,580 $ 511 9 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Service 61 % 58 % Subscription 24 % 26 % License 16 % 16 % Total 100 % 100 % Service . Service revenue consists primarily of software development and consulting services. The majority of service revenue arrangements are structured as time and materials consulting agreements. Most of our service revenue is derived from contracts with the Central Banks and government agency contractors. The agreements range from several months to several years in length, and our longer term contracts are subject to work plans that are reviewed and agreed upon at least annually. These contracts generally provide for billing hours worked at predetermined rates and, to a lesser extent, reimbursement for third party costs and services. Increases or decreases in the services provided under these contracts are generally subject to both volume and price changes. The volume of work is generally negotiated at least annually and can be modified as the customers needs change. We also have provisions in our longer term contracts that allow for specific hourly rate price increases on an annual basis to account for cost of living variables. Contracts with government agency contractors are generally shorter term in nature, less linear in billings and less predictable than our longer term contracts because the contracts with government agency contractors are subject to government budgets and funding. The increase in service revenue for the three month period was primarily due to more program work with the Central Banks and with a government agency contractor. Subscription . Subscription revenue includes Digimarc Discover, Digimarc Barcode and Guardian products and services, and is generally recurring in nature, paid in advance and recognized over the term of the subscription. The decrease in subscription revenue for the three month period was primarily due to lower Guardian revenue, partially offset by higher Digimarc Discover and Digimarc Barcode revenue. License . License revenue originates primarily from licensing our intellectual property, where we receive license fees and/or royalties as our income stream. The increase in license revenue for the three month period was primarily due to higher royalty revenue. 20 Revenue by Geography Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Revenue by geography: Domestic $ 1,501 $ 1,133 $ 368 32 % International 4,590 4,447 143 3 % Total $ 6,091 $ 5,580 $ 511 9 % Revenue (as % of total revenue): Domestic 25 % 20 % International 75 % 80 % Total 100 % 100 % The increase in domestic revenue for the three month period was primarily the result of higher service revenue from a government agency contractor and higher royalty revenue from a domestic customer. The increase in international revenue for the three month period was primarily due to more program work with the Central Banks. Cost of Revenue Service . Cost of service revenue primarily includes costs that are allocated from research, development and engineering, sales and marketing and intellectual property that relate directly to performing services under our customer contracts and direct costs of program delivery. Costs include: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of our software developers, quality assurance personnel, product managers, business development managers and other personnel where we bill our customers for time and materials costs; payments to outside contractors that are billed to customers; charges for equipment directly used by customers; depreciation and other charges for machinery, equipment and software directly used by customers; travel costs directly attributable to service and development contracts; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Subscription . Cost of subscription revenue primarily includes: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of operations personnel; cost of outside contractors that provide operational support; amortization of existing technology acquired in the acquisition of Attributor Corporation; Internet service provider connectivity charges and image search data fees to support the services offered to our subscription customers; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. 21 License . Cost of license revenue primarily includes: amortization of capitalized patent costs; and amortization of patent maintenance fees. Gross Profit Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Gross Profit: Service $ 2,061 $ 1,818 $ 243 13 % Subscription 889 801 88 11 % License 832 771 61 8 % Total $ 3,782 $ 3,390 $ 392 12 % Gross Profit (as % of related revenue components): Service 56 % 56 % Subscription 62 % 55 % License 88 % 89 % Total 62 % 61 % The increase in total gross profit was due primarily to higher service revenue and lower operations costs for our subscription products and services. There was no change in service gross profit as a percentage of service revenue for the three month period. The increase in subscription gross profit as a percentage of subscription revenue for the three month period was due primarily to lower operations costs. The decrease in license gross profit as a percentage of license revenue was insignificant. Operating Expenses We allocate certain costs of research, development and engineering, sales and marketing, and intellectual property to cost of revenue when they relate directly to our customer contracts. We record all remaining, or residual, costs as sales and marketing, research, development and engineering, general and administrative, and intellectual property expenses. Sales and marketing Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Sales and marketing $ 3,992 $ 2,955 $ 1,037 35 % Sales and marketing (as % of total revenue) 66 % 53 % Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation and related costs of sales and marketing employees and product managers; travel and market research costs, and costs associated with marketing programs, such as trade shows, public relations and new product launches; 22 professional services and outside contractors for product and marketing initiatives; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in sales and marketing expenses for the three month period was due primarily to: increased headcount and compensation-related expenses of $0.6 million; increased marketing and professional fees of $0.2 million related to market development activities; and increased travel expenses of $0.1 million. Research, development and engineering Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Research, development and engineering $ 3,459 $ 3,305 $ 154 5 % Research, development and engineering (as % of total revenue) 57 % 59 % Research, development and engineering expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits, incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense, recruiting and related costs of software and hardware developers and quality assurance personnel; payments to outside contractors; the purchase of materials and services for product development; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in research, development and engineering for the three month period primarily resulted from increased headcount and compensation-related expenses of $0.2 million. General and administrative Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) General and administrative $ 2,385 $ 2,170 $ 215 10 % General and administrative (as % of total revenue) 39 % 39 % We incur general and administrative costs in the functional areas of finance, legal, human resources, executive and board of directors. Costs for facilities and information technology are also managed as part of the general and administrative processes and are allocated to this area as well as each of the areas in cost of revenue, sales and marketing, research, development and engineering and intellectual property. General and administrative expenses consist primarily of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense and related costs of general and administrative personnel; third party and professional fees associated with legal, accounting and human resources; 23 costs a ssociated with being a public company; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three month period was primarily due to: increased professional fees of $0.1 million; and increased legal and accounting expenses of $0.1 million. Intellectual property Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Intellectual property $ 392 $ 434 $ (42 ) (10 )% Intellectual property (as % of total revenue) 6 % 8 % We incur intellectual property expenses that arise primarily from costs associated with documenting, applying for, and maintaining domestic and international patents and trademarks. Gross expenditures for intellectual property costs, before reflecting the effect of capitalized patent costs, primarily consist of: compensation, benefits and incentive compensation in the form of stock-based compensation expense and related costs of attorneys and legal assistants; third party costs, including filing and governmental regulatory fees and fees for outside legal counsel and translation costs, each incurred in the patent process; consulting costs related to marketing our intellectual property portfolio; charges to write off previously capitalized patent costs for patent assets we abandon; and charges for infrastructure and centralized costs of facilities and information technology. Intellectual property expenses can vary from period to period based on the level of capitalized patent activity. The decrease in intellectual property expenses for the three month period was insignificant. Stock-based compensation Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Cost of revenue $ 176 $ 173 $ 3 2 % Sales and marketing 368 212 156 74 % Research, development and engineering 308 325 (17 ) (5 )% General and administrative 573 501 72 14 % Intellectual property 78 72 6 8 % Total $ 1,503 $ 1,283 $ 220 17 % The increase in stock-based compensation expense for the three month period was primarily due to increased headcount in sales and marketing. 24 We anticipate incurring an additional $12,620 in stock-based compensation expense through March 2021 for awards outstanding as of March 31, 2017. Other income, net Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Other income, net $ 118 $ 46 72 157 % Other income, net (as % of total revenue) 2 % 1 % The increase in other income, net for the three month period was primarily due to higher interest income as a result of higher cash and investment balances, higher interest rates on cash and investments, and changes in foreign currency. Income Taxes The benefit (provision) for income taxes for the three month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 reflects current taxes, deferred taxes, and withholding taxes. The effective tax rate for the three month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was 2% and 0%, respectively, because we have a full valuation allowance recorded against our deferred tax assets. The current year effective tax rate was not affected by our adoption of ASU No. 2016-09, because the excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation of $179 was offset by $179 of valuation allowance. The valuation allowance against deferred tax assets as of March 31, 2017 was $34,142, an increase of $9,254 from $24,888 as of December 31, 2016. The adoption of ASU No. 2016-09 resulted in the recognition of deferred tax assets of $6,219 for previously unrecognized excess tax benefits as of December 31, 2016, which was offset by $6,219 of valuation allowance. We continually assess the applicability of valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. Based upon the positive and negative evidence available as of March 31, 2017, and largely due to the cumulative loss incurred by us over the last several years, which is considered a significant piece of negative evidence when assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, a full valuation allowance is recorded against our deferred tax assets. We will not record tax benefits on any future losses until it is determined that those tax benefits will be realized. All future reversals of the valuation allowance would result in a tax benefit in the period recognized. Liquidity and Capital Resources March 31, December 31, 2017 2016 Working capital $ 57,768 $ 58,461 Current ratio (1) 16.0:1 14.1:1 Cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities $ 56,185 $ 56,134 Long-term marketable securities $ $ 4,392 Total cash, cash equivalents and all marketable securities $ 56,185 $ 60,526 (1) The current ratio is calculated by dividing total current assets by total current liabilities. The $4.3 million decrease in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities resulted primarily from: cash used in operations; purchases of property and equipment and capitalized patent costs; and 25 purchases of common stock related to the vesting of restricted stock; partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and trade accounts receivable. We place our cash and cash equivalents with major banks and financial institutions and at times deposits may exceed insured limits. Marketable securities primarily include commercial paper, federal agency notes, corporate notes, pre-refunded municipal bonds and U.S. treasuries. Our investment policy requires our portfolio to be invested to ensure that the greater of $3 million or 7% of the invested funds will be available within 30 days notice. Other than cash used for operating needs, which may include short-term marketable securities, our investment policy limits our credit exposure to any one financial institution or type of financial instrument by limiting the maximum of 5% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities or $1 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one issuer except for the U.S. government, U.S. federal agencies and U.S. backed securities, which have no limits, at the time of purchase. Our investment policy also limits our credit exposure by limiting to a maximum of 40% of our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, or $15 million, whichever is greater, to be invested in any one industry category (e.g., financial or energy industries) at the time of purchase. As a result, we believe our credit risk associated with cash and investments to be minimal. A decline in the market value of any security below cost that is deemed to be other-than-temporary results in a reduction in carrying amount to fair value. To determine whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, we consider whether we have the ability and intent to hold the investment until a market price recovery and evidence indicating that the cost of the investment is recoverable outweighs evidence to the contrary. There have been no other-than-temporary impairments identified or recorded by us in the three month periods ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. Operating Cash Flow The components of operating cash flows were: Three Three Months Months Ended Ended Dollar Percent March 31, March 31, Increase Increase 2017 2016 (Decrease) (Decrease) Net loss $ (6,218 ) $ (5,435 ) $ (783 ) (14 )% Non-cash items 2,059 1,912 147 8 % Changes in operating assets and liabilities 1,029 1,315 (286 ) (22 )% Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,130 ) $ (2,208 ) $ (922 ) (42 )% Cash flows used in operating activities for the three month period increased by $0.9 million, primarily as the result of a higher net loss and changes in operating assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher non-cash items. The higher net loss was primarily the result of higher operating expenses reflecting higher investment in sales, marketing, and engineering, partially offset by higher revenue. The changes in operating assets and liabilities were primarily due to lower collections of accounts receivable, partially offset by higher accounts payable due to timing. The higher non-cash items were primarily the result of higher stock-based compensation due to increased headcount. Cash flows provided by investing activities for the three month period decreased by $2.5 million from $7.5 million to $5.0 million, primarily as a result of higher net purchases of marketable securities. Cash flows used in financing activities were relatively consistent for the three month period. Future Cash Expectations We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents, and short-term marketable securities balances will satisfy our projected working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. We have a $100 million shelf registration statement in place, of which $42,550 was allocated for sales of our common stock under our underwritten public offering in August 2016 and $30,000 was allocated for sales of our common stock under the Equity Distribution Agreement entered into in August 2014. The shelf registration statement expires in June 2017. We may use similar or other financing means to raise working capital in the future, if necessary, to support continued investment in our growth initiatives. We may also raise capital in the future to fund acquisitions and/or investments in complementary 26 businesses, tech nologies or product lines. If it becomes necessary to obtain additional financing, we may not be able to do so, or if these funds are available, they may not be available on satisfactory terms. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Other than the contractual obligations disclosed in our 2016 Annual Report, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenue or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to investors. Safe Harbor Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. Words such as may, plan, should, could, expect, anticipate, intend, believe, project, forecast, estimate, continue, and variations of such terms or similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements, or other statements made by us, are made based on our expectations and beliefs concerning future events impacting us, and are subject to uncertainties and factors (including those specified below), which are difficult to predict and, in many instances, are beyond our control. As a result, our actual results could differ materially from those expressed in or implied by any such forward-looking statements, and investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements. We believe that the following factors, among others (including those described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2016 Annual Report), could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us. Forward-looking statements include but are not limited to statements relating to: concentration of revenue with few customers comprising a large majority of the revenue; revenue trends and expectations; our future level of investment in our business, including investment in research, development and engineering of products and technology, development and protection of our intellectual property, sales growth initiatives and development of new market opportunities; our ability to improve margins; anticipated expenses, costs, margins, provision for income taxes and investment activities in the foreseeable future; anticipated tax benefits or reversals of a valuation allowance; anticipated effect of our early adoption of accounting pronouncements; anticipated revenue to be generated from current contracts, renewals, and as a result of new programs; variability of contracted arrangements; our profitability in future periods; business opportunities that could require that we seek additional financing; the size and growth of our markets; the existence of international growth opportunities and our future investment in such opportunities; the sources of our future revenue; our expected short-term and long-term liquidity positions; our capital expenditure and working capital requirements and our ability to fund our capital expenditure and working capital needs through cash flow from operations; capital market conditions, interest rate volatility and other limitations on the availability of capital, which could have an impact on our cost of capital and our ability to access the capital markets; our use of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in upcoming quarters; anticipated levels of backlog in future periods; 27 the success of our product s, including Digimarc Discover, Digimarc Barcode, the Intuitive Computing Platform and Guardian; our ability to innovate and enhance our competitive differentiation; protection, development and monetization of our intellectual property portfolio; our plans and intentions with respect to our joint ventures; and the risks detailed in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the risk factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2016 Annual Report. We believe that the risk factors specified above and the risk factors contained in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors of our 2016 Annual Report, among others, could affect our future performance and the liquidity and value of our securities and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Investors should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors and that there may be other factors that may cause our actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. All forward-looking statements made by us or by persons acting on our behalf apply only as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. We do not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect future events, information or circumstances that arise after the date of the filing of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.