MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified in its entirety by, the Financial Statements and the Notes thereto included in this Report. This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements that involve substantial risks and uncertainties. When used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, would, could, may, and similar expressions, as they relate to our management or us, are intended to identify such forward-looking statements. Our actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements as a result of a variety of factors including those set forth under Risk Factors set forth under Item IA and elsewhere in this filing. Historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of the trends in operating results for any future period. Unless the context otherwise indicates, the use of the terms we, our, us, Digital Turbine, DT, or the Company refer to the collective business and operations of Digital Turbine, Inc. through its operating and wholly-owned subsidiaries, Digital Turbine USA, Inc. (DT USA), Digital Turbine (EMEA) Ltd. (DT EMEA), Digital Turbine Australia Pty Ltd (DT APAC), Digital Turbine Singapore Pte Ltd (DT Singapore), Digital Turbine Luxembourg S.a.r.l. (DT Luxembourg), Digital Turbine Germany, GmbH (DT Germany), and Digital Turbine Media, Inc. (DT Media). All numbers are in thousands, except share and per share amounts. 36 Company Overview Digital Turbine innovates at the convergence of media and mobile communications, delivering end-to-end products and solutions for mobile operators, app advertisers, device OEMs and other third parties to enable them to effectively monetize mobile content and generate higher value user acquisition. The company operates its business by providing services in the Advertising and Content space. The Company has grown through several recent acquisitions, which are relevant to understanding the Companys current business. The Company acquired Xyologic and Appia in fiscal 2015. The Xyologic acquisition was key to developing DT IQ which is a product that provides app-install recommendations. Appia (Appia Core) provides the Company with a mobile user acquisition platform which allows mobile advertisers to engage with the right customers for their applications. Advertising DT Ignite is a mobile application management software that is pre-installed on devices to enable mobile operators and OEMs to control, manage and monetize the applications that are installed on mobile devices. DT Ignite allows mobile operators to customize the out-of-the-box experience for customers and monetize their home screens via Cost-Per-Install or CPI arrangements, Cost-Per-Placement or CPP arrangements, and/or Cost-Per-Action or CPA arrangements with third party application developers. Applications can be installed silently or with notification, on first boot or later in the lifecycle of the device, allowing mobile operators and OEMs to participate in an advertising revenue stream. The Company has launched DT Ignite with mobile operators and OEMs in North America, Europe, Asia Pacific, India and Israel. DT IQ enables app and content discovery, both organic and sponsored, in a variety of user interfaces. The core of the product suite is the DT IQ engine which provides application recommendations to the device end user blended with sponsored ads. The DT IQ AppDeck product is centered purely around app discovery and is presented in a visual feed-based User Interface. The DT IQ App Drawer product organizes applications for device end users by category and provides contextual app recommendations. DT IQ Search is a User Experience and User Interface that enable device end users to search and discover content from various sources including social media, search engines, and applications. Monetization for DT IQ Search is through increased content sales while AppDeck and App Drawer monetize through the display of and or recommendation of applications via the CPI commercial model. DT IQ has been deployed with mobile operators across North America and Asia Pacific. DT Media is an advertiser solution for unique and exclusive carrier and OEM on-device home screen inventory. Appia Core is a leading worldwide mobile user acquisition network. Its mobile user acquisition platform is a demand side platform, or DSP. This platform allows mobile advertisers to engage with the right customers for their applications at the right time to gain them as customers. Appia Core accesses mobile ad inventory through publishers including direct developer relationships, mobile websites, mobile carriers and mediated relationships; as well as purchasing inventory through exchanges using real-time bidding (RTB). The advertising revenue generated by Appia Cores platform is shared with publishers according to contractual rates in the case of direct or mediated relationships. When inventory is accessed using real-time bidding, Appia Core buys inventory at a rate determined by the marketplace. Since inception, Appia Core has delivered over 100 million app installs for hundreds of advertisers. Content DT Marketplace is currently one of the Companys primary revenue generating products. DT Marketplace can be sold as an application storefront that manages the retailing of mobile content including features such as merchandising, product placements, reporting, pricing, promotions, and distribution of digital goods. DT Marketplace also includes the distribution and licensing of content across multiple content categories including music, applications, wallpapers, eBooks, and games. DT Marketplace is deployed with many operators across multiple countries including Australia, Singapore, and Israel. DT Pay is currently one of the Companys primary revenue generating products. DT Pay is an Application Programming Interface (API) that integrates billing infrastructure between mobile operators and content publishers to facilitate mobile commerce. Increasingly, mobile content publishers want to go directly to consumers to sell their content rather than sell through traditional distributors such as Google Play or the Apple Application Store. DT Pay allows publishers and carriers to monetize those applications by allowing the content to be billed directly to the consumer via carrier billing. DT Pay has been launched in Australia and Singapore. Digital Turbines divestiture of Twistbox Entertainment in the fiscal 2014 fourth quarter is reflected as discontinued operations in this Report. All periods presented have been revised to reflect this presentation. Unless otherwise noted, all discussions in this Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations relate to continuing operations. 37 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 12 Months Ended 12 Months Ended March 31, March 31, % of 2015 2014 Change (in thousands, except share and per share amounts) Revenues $ 28,252 $ 24,404 15.8 % Cost of revenues 22,120 16,558 33.6 % Gross profit 6,132 7,846 -21.8 % SG&A 29,869 23,216 28.7 % Impairment of intangible assets - 154 -100.0 % Operating loss (23,737 ) (15,524 ) 52.9 % Interest expense, net (234 ) (1,407 ) -83.4 % Foreign exchange transaction gain 32 33 -3.0 % Change in fair value of warrant derivative liabilities loss - (811 ) -100.0 % Gain/ (loss) on disposal of fixed assets 2 - 100.0 % Loss on extinguishment of debt - (442 ) -100.0 % Gain / (loss) on settlement of debt (9 ) 74 -112.2 % Other expense 46 - 100.0 % Loss on change on valuation of long term contingent liability - 603 -100.0 % Loss before income taxes (23,900 ) (17,474 ) 36.8 % Income tax provision 747 (272 ) -374.6 % Loss from continuing operations (24,647 ) (17,202 ) 43.3 % Loss on disposal of discontinued operations, net of taxes - (1,502 ) -100.0 % Net loss (24,647 ) (18,704 ) 31.8 % Diluted net income / (loss) per common share: Continuing operations (0.63 ) (0.63 ) 0.0 % Discontinued operations - (0.05 ) -100.0 % Net loss (0.63 ) (0.68 ) -7.4 % Weighted average common shares outstanding, basic and diluted 38,967 27,478 41.8 % Comparison of the Year Ended March 31, 2015 and the Year Ended March 31, 2014 Revenues Twelve Months Ended March 31, % of 2015 2014 Change (In thousands) Revenues by type: Content $ 22,009 $ 23,635 -6.9 % Advertising 6,243 769 711.8 % Total $ 28,252 $ 24,404 15.8 % During the year ended March 31, 2015 there was an approximately $3,800 or 15.8% increase in revenue overall, as compared to the year ending March 31, 2014. The year over year increase was driven by Advertising revenue growth comprised primarily of CPI and CPP revenue from new advertising partners across commercial deployments of DT Ignite with new carrier partners, amounts earned from the Companys carrier partners relating to sharing of costs of software customization and integration prior to device launch, and the inclusion of 26 days of Appia Core. The Content business experienced a moderate decline year over year driven primarily by a decrease in DT Marketplace in the first half of the fiscal year. The decline in DT Marketplace was partially mitigated by increased billing revenue as a result of new DT Pay customers. 38 Gross Margins Twelve Months Ended March 31, % of 2015 2014 Change (In thousands) Gross margin by type Content Gross Margin $ $ 4,210 $ 7,083 -40.6 % Content Gross Margin % 19 % 30 % Advertising Gross Margin $ $ 1,922 $ 763 151.9 % Advertising Gross Margin % 31 % 99 % Total Gross Margin $ $ 6,132 $ 7,846 -21.8 % Total Gross Margin % 22 % 32 % Gross profit was approximately $6,100 or 22% for fiscal 2015, versus approximately $7,800 or 32% for fiscal 2014. Content business gross profit and gross margin was adversely impacted by a mix shift from DT Marketplace to DT Pay, which carries a lower gross margin. Advertising gross profit and gross margin, driven by the amount of revenue share paid to carrier and OEM distribution partners related primarily to CPI and CPP revenue generated via the DT Ignite platform and revenue share paid to Appia Core publishers, year of year with an increase in overall Advertising revenue. Operating Expenses Twelve Months Ended March 31, % of 2015 2014 Change (In thousands) Product development expenses $ 7,905 $ 7,869 0.5 % Sales and marketing expenses 2,933 1,915 53.2 % General and administrative expenses 19,031 13,432 41.7 % Product development expenses include campaign management, the development and maintenance of the DT product suite, including Appia Core, as well as the costs to support DT Pay and DT Marketplace through the optimization of content for consumption on a mobile phone. Expenses in this area are primarily a function of personnel. Sales and marketing expenses represent the costs of sales and marketing personnel, and advertising and marketing campaigns. Sales and marketing expenses have increased with bringing products to market. General and administrative expenses represent management, finance and support personnel costs in both the parent and subsidiary companies, which include professional and consulting costs, in addition to other costs such as rent, stock based compensation and depreciation expense. Total operating expenses for fiscal 2015 equaled approximately $29,900, compared with approximately $23,400 in fiscal 2014. The increase related to costs inclusion of 26 days of Appia, investment in new offices in Germany and Singapore, transaction costs related to the acquisitions of XYO and Appia, as well as an increase in stock-based compensation. Total operating expenses for fiscal 2015 included approximately $6,400 in non-cash items comprised of depreciation and stock based compensation. Total operating expenses for fiscal 2014 included approximately $5,700 in non-cash items comprised of depreciation and stock based compensation. 39 Other Income and Expenses Twelve Months Ended March 31, % of 2015 2014 Change (In thousands) Interest and other (expense) (234 ) (1,407 ) -83.4 % Foreign exchange transaction gain / (loss), net 32 33 -3.0 % Change in fair value of warrant derivative liabilities loss - (811 ) -100.0 % Gain on disposal of fixed assets 2 - 100.0 % Other income 46 - 100.0 % Loss on extinguishment of debt - (442 ) -100.0 % Gain / (loss) on settlement of debt (9 ) 74 -112.2 % Loss on change on valuation of long term contingent liability - 603 -100.0 % Interest and other expense includes interest income on invested funds, interest expense, and financing costs as incurred by the Company. These expenses were significantly higher in the year ended March 31, 2014 due to loan modification costs and interest expense incurred through September 2013 when the outstanding debt balance was paid off as compared to the year ended March 31, 2015 which included only 26 days of interest expense related to the new debt brought on in connection with the acquisition of Appia, Inc. Other expenses include foreign exchange transaction gains and losses. The last quarter of the year ended March 31, 2015 includes a portion of interest from debt incurred with the acquisition of Appia. Financial Condition Assets Our current assets totaled approximately $20,200 and approximately $27,500 at March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively. Total assets were approximately $122,600 and approximately $45,100 at March 31, 2015 and March 31, 2014, respectively. The decrease in current assets from period to period is primarily due to the decrease in cash used for operating activities of approximately $14,500 and the XYO purchase of approximately $2,100 offset by the increase in cash of approximately $500 for warrant and option exercises, as well as approximately $1,400 in cash and approximately $7,400 in accounts receivable purchased in the Appia acquisition in March 2015. Liabilities and Working Capital At March 31, 2015, our total liabilities were approximately $31,000, compared to approximately $12,100 at March 31, 2014. The change in liabilities was due to the increase in liabilities and debt due to the acquisition of Appia of approximately $21,300, offset mainly by the decrease in deferred tax liabilities of approximately $2,900. As a result of these changes, the Company had negative working capital of approximately $3,800 at March 31, 2015 as opposed to positive working capital of approximately $15,600 at March 31, 2014. Liquidity and Capital Resources Twelve Months Ended March 31, % of 2015 2014 Change (In thousands) Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Data: Capital expenditures 67 207 -67.6 % Cash flows used in operating activities 14,500 7,807 85.7 % Cash flows used in acquisition of assets 2,125 - 100.0 % Exercise of warrants and options (511 ) - 100.0 % Settlement of contingent liability 49 - 100.0 % Cash acquired with acquisition of subsidiary (1,363 ) (513 ) 165.7 % Cash used in acquisition of subsidiary - 1,287 -100.0 % Repayment of debt obligations - 3,657 -100.0 % Issuance of shares for cash - (33,297 ) -100.0 % Loss on exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (131 ) 196 -166.8 % 40 Our primary sources of liquidity have historically been issuance of common and preferred stock and convertible debt. In fiscal year 2014, the Company raised approximately $33,300 through equity financings. The Company did not raise any financing through equity issuance in fiscal year 2015. The Company filed a shelf registration covering $100,000 of primary securities, which would enable the Company to raise additional capital. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on April 24, 2015, and provides the Company flexibility to consider and pursue capital raising alternatives. The Company believes that it will have sufficient resources to continue operations through March 31, 2016; however, additional capital would likely be needed to pursue new opportunities of inorganic growth not currently in our main business plans. As of March 31, 2015, we had approximately $7,000 of cash and cash equivalents. Additionally, the Company currently has a $3,500 revolving credit facility in place with Silicon Valley Bank, which it uses to fund working capital requirements, as needed. As of March 31, 2015, the outstanding balance on the revolving credit facility was $3,000. Refer to section 9B for an update on the Silicon Valley Bank revolving credit facility. On June 11, 2015, (the Closing Date), our wholly owned subsidiary Digital Turbine Media, Inc. (f/k/a Appia, Inc., f/k/a PocketGear, Inc.), a Delaware corporation (the Borrower) and Silicon Valley Bank, a California corporation (Bank) entered into a Third Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement, pursuant to which Bank has agreed to amend and restate the existing Second Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement to increase the revolving line of credit available under such facility from $3,500 to $5,000, to extend the maturity date under the facility to June 30, 2016, and to make certain other changes to the terms of the existing agreement. Refer to section 9B for an update on the Silicon Valley Bank revolving credit facility. Operating Activities During the year ended March 31, 2015, cash decreased approximately $14,700. Net cash used in operating activities was $14,500 in the year ended March 31, 2015, as compared to approximately $7,800 in the year ended March 31, 2014. The difference between net loss and net cash used in operating activities is comprised primarily of an increase in accounts receivable, deposits, and prepaid expenses of approximately $600, offset by a decrease in accounts payable and other liabilities of approximately $5,000, and further offset by a decrease in deferred tax assets of approximately $3,200 and an increase in accrued license fees and revenue share and accrued compensation of approximately $3,000 and approximately $325, respectively. These changes are related to the loss for the period, but exclude depreciation and amortization of approximately $2,100, as well as approximately $6,300 expense for stock compensation, stock options and stock issued for services. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partners, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. In addition, we do not have any undisclosed borrowings or debt, and we have not entered into any synthetic leases. We believe, therefore, that we are not materially exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if we had engaged in such relationships. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to contingencies, litigation and goodwill and intangibles acquired relating to our acquisitions. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our financial statements. Basis of Presentation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) and pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for annual financial statements. The financial statements, in the opinion of management, include all adjustments necessary for a fair statement of the results of operations, financial position and cash flows for each period presented. 41 Estimates and Assumptions The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Revenue Recognition Advertising Advertising revenues are generated via direct Cost-Per-Install (CPI), Cost-Per-Placement (CPP), or Cost-Per-Action (CPA) arrangements with application developers, or indirect CPI, CPP or CPA arrangements through advertising aggregators (ad networks). Transactions are processed by the Companys software services: mobile application management through DT Ignite, and user experience and discovery through DT IQ. The Company recognizes as revenue the amount billed to the application developer or advertising aggregator. Revenue share payments to the carrier are recorded as a cost of revenues. The Company has evaluated its agreements with the developers and aggregators and the carriers in accordance with the guidance at FASB ASC 605-45 Revenue Recognition Principal Agent Considerations and has concluded that it is the principal under these agreements. Key indicators that it evaluated to reach this determination include: The Company has the contractual relationship with the application developers or advertising aggregators (collectively, the advertisers), and we have the performance obligation to these parties Through our DT Ignite and DT IQ software, we provide application installation and management as well as detailed reporting to advertisers and carriers. We are responsible for billing the advertisers, and for reporting revenues and revenue share to the carriers As part of the application management process, we use our data, and post-install event data provided back to us by the advertisers, to match applications to end users. We currently target end users based on carrier, geography, demographics (including by handset type), among other attributes, by leveraging carrier data. We have discretion as to which applications are delivered to each end user Pricing is established in our agreements with advertisers. We negotiate pricing with the advertisers, based on prevailing rates typical in the industry and The Company is responsible for billing and collecting the gross amount from the advertiser. Our carrier agreements do not include any specific provisions that allow us to mitigate our credit risk by reducing the revenue share payable to the carrier. In certain instances the carrier may enter directly into a CPI, CPP or CPA arrangement with a developer, where the installation will be made using the Companys DT Ignite and DT IQ software services. In these instances, the Company receives a share of the carriers revenue, which is recognized on a net basis. In addition to revenues from application developers and advertising aggregators, the Company may receive fees from the carriers relating to the initial set-up of the arrangements with the carriers. Set-up activities typically include customization, testing and implementation of the DT Ignite software for specific handsets. When the Company determines that the set-up fees do not have standalone value, such fees are deferred and recognized over the estimated period the carrier benefits from the set-up fee, which is generally the estimated life of the related handsets. The Company has determined that certain set-up activities are within the scope of FASB ASC 985-605 Software Revenue Recognition and, accordingly, the Company applies the provisions of ASC 985-605 to the software components. As a result, the Company typically defers recognition of the set-up fee until all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. In those instances where the set-up fee covers ongoing support and maintenance, the fee is deferred and amortized over the term of the carrier agreement. 42 Content and Billing The Companys Content and Billing revenues are derived primarily from transactions with the carriers customers (end users). The carriers bill the end users upon the sale of content, including music, images or games, and the Company shares the end user revenues with the carrier. The end user transactions are processed by the Companys software services: white labeled mobile storefront and content management solutions through DT Marketplace, and mobile payments with direct operator billing through DT Pay. The Company utilizes its reporting system to capture and recognize revenue due from carriers, based on monthly transactional reporting and other fees earned upon delivery of content to the end user. Determination of the appropriate amount of revenue recognized is based on the Companys reporting system, but it is possible that actual results may differ from the Companys estimates once the reports are reconciled with the carrier. When the Company receives the final carrier reports, to the extent not received within a reasonable time frame following the end of each month, the Company records any differences between estimated revenues and actual revenues in the reporting period when the Company determines the actual amounts. The Company has not experienced material adjustments to its estimates when the final amounts were reported by carriers. If the Company deems a carrier not to be creditworthy, the Company defers all revenues from the arrangement until the Company receives payment and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. The Company recognizes as revenues the amount billed to the carrier upon the sale of content, which is net of sales taxes, the carriers fees and other deductions. The Company has evaluated its agreements with carriers in accordance with the guidance at FASB ASC 605-45 Revenue Recognition Principal Agent Considerations and has concluded that it is not the principal under these agreements. Key indicators that it evaluated to reach this determination include: End users directly contract with the carriers, which have most of the service interaction and are generally viewed as the primary obligor by the subscribers Carriers generally have significant control over the types of content that they offer to their subscribers the Company has the content provider relationships and has discretion, within the parameters set by the carriers, regarding the actual offerings Carriers are directly responsible for billing and collecting fees from their subscribers, including the resolution of billing disputes Carriers generally pay the Company a fixed percentage of their revenues or a fixed fee for each content sale Carriers generally must approve the price of the Companys content in advance of their sale to subscribers, and the Companys more significant carriers generally have the ability to set the ultimate price charged to their subscribers and The Company has limited risks, including no inventory risk and limited credit risk. The Company has also evaluated its agreements with content providers, and has concluded that it is the principal under these agreements. Accordingly, payments to content providers are reported as cost of revenues. Content Provider Licenses and Carrier Revenue Share Content Provider License Fees The Companys royalty expenses consist of fees that it pays to branded content owners for the use of their intellectual property in the development of the Companys music, games and other content, and other expenses directly incurred in earning revenue. Royalty-based obligations are either, accrued as incurred and subsequently paid, or in the case of content acquisitions, paid in advance and capitalized on our balance sheet as prepaid license fees. These royalty-based obligations are expensed to cost of revenues either at the applicable contractual rate related to that revenue or over the estimated life of the content acquired. Minimum guarantee license payments that are not recoupable against future royalties are capitalized and amortized over the lesser of the estimated life of the branded title or the term of the license agreement. 43 Carrier Revenue Share Revenues generated from advertising via direct CPI, CPP or CPA arrangements with application developers, or indirect arrangements through advertising aggregators (ad networks) are shared with the carrier and the shared revenue is recorded as a cost of goods sold. In each case the revenue share with the carrier varies depending on the agreement with the carrier, and, in some cases, is based upon revenue tiers. Software Development Costs The Company applies the principles of FASB ASC 985-20, Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed (ASC 985-20). ASC 985-20 requires that software development costs incurred in conjunction with product development be charged to research and development expense until technological feasibility is established. Thereafter, until the product is released for sale, software development costs must be capitalized and reported at the lower of unamortized cost or net realizable value of the related product. The Company has adopted the tested working model approach to establishing technological feasibility for its products and games. Under this approach, the Company does not consider a product in development to have passed the technological feasibility milestone until the Company has completed a model of the product that contains essentially all the functionality and features of the final product and has tested the model to ensure that it works as expected. To date, the Company has not incurred significant costs between the establishment of technological feasibility and the release of a product for sale; thus, the Company has expensed all software development costs as incurred. The Company considers the following factors in determining whether costs can be capitalized: the emerging nature of the mobile market; the gradual evolution of the wireless carrier platforms and mobile phones for which it develops products and games; the lack of pre-orders or sales history for its products and games; the uncertainty regarding a products or games revenue-generating potential; its lack of control over the carrier distribution channel resulting in uncertainty as to when, if ever, a product or game will be available for sale; and its historical practice of canceling products and games at any stage of the development process. Presentation In order to facilitate the comparison of financial information, certain amounts reported in the prior year have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Concentrations of Credit Risk Financial instruments which potentially subject us to concentration of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, and accounts receivable. We have placed cash and cash equivalents at high credit-quality institutions. In our content business most of our sales are made directly to large national mobile phone carriers. In our advertising business most of our sales are made either directly to advertisers or through advertising aggregators. We have a significant level of business and resulting significant accounts receivable balance with one operator and therefore have a high concentration of credit risk with that operator. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain an allowance for potential credit losses. As of March 31, 2015, one major customer represented approximately 21.1% of our gross accounts receivable outstanding, and 49.1% of our gross accounts receivable outstanding as of March 31, 2014, respectively. The previously mentioned major customer and one other customer accounted for 50.6%, 11.1% of our gross revenues during the twelve month period ended March 31, 2015 and these two customers and one other customer accounted for 45.8%, 22.2%, and 10.5% of our gross revenues during the twelve month period ended March 31, 2014. 44 Goodwill and Indefinite Life Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of cost over fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. In accordance with FASB ASC 350-20 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, the value assigned to goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets is not amortized to expense, but rather they are evaluated at least on an annual basis to determine if there are potential impairments. For goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets, we complete what is referred to as the Step 0 analysis which involves evaluating qualitative factors including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, and overall financial performance. If our Step 0 analysis indicates it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying amount, we would perform a quantitative two-step impairment test. The quantitative analysis compares the fair value of our reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible assets to the carrying amounts, and an impairment loss is recognized equivalent to the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value. Fair value is determined based on discounted cash flows, market multiples or appraised values, as appropriate. Discounted cash flow analysis requires assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash inflows and outflows, risk, the cost of capital, and terminal values. Each of these factors can significantly affect the value of the intangible asset. The estimates of future cash flows, based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require managements judgment. Any changes in key assumptions about the Companys businesses and their prospects, or changes in market conditions, could result in an impairment charge. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the intangible asset valuation process include: the timing and amount of projected future cash flows; the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; and the assessment of the assets life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including consideration of any technical, legal or regulatory trends. In the year ended March 31, 2014, the Company determined that there was no impairment of goodwill. In performing the related valuation analysis, the Company used various valuation methodologies including probability weighted discounted cash flows, comparable transaction analysis, and market capitalization and comparable company multiple comparison. There were no indications of impairment present during the period ended March 31, 2015. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Finite Life Intangibles Long-lived assets, including, intangible assets subject to amortization primarily consist of customer lists, license agreements and software that have been acquired are amortized using the straight-line method over their useful life ranging from five to eight years and are reviewed for impairment in accordance with FASB ASC 360-10, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. There were no indications of impairment present during the period ended March 31, 2015. In performing the related valuation analysis the Company used various valuation methodologies including probability weighted discounted cash flows, comparable transaction analysis, and market capitalization and comparable company multiple comparison. Income Taxes The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with FASB ASC 740-10, Accounting for Income Taxes (ASC 740-10), which requires recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in its financial statements or tax returns. Under ASC 740-10, the Company determines deferred tax assets and liabilities for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and the tax basis of assets and liabilities along with net operating losses, if it is more likely than not the tax benefits will be realized using the enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which it expects the differences to reverse. To the extent a deferred tax asset cannot be recognized, a valuation allowance is established if necessary. ASC 740-10 prescribes that a company should use a more-likely-than-not recognition threshold based on the technical merits of the tax position taken. Tax positions that meet the more-likely-than-not recognition threshold should be measured as the largest amount of the tax benefits, determined on a cumulative probability basis, which is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement in the financial statements. We recognize interest and penalties related to income tax matters as a component of the provision for income taxes. We do not currently anticipate that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits will significantly change within the next 12 months. 45 The Companys income is subject to taxation in both the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions, including Israel, Germany, Luxembourg, Singapore and Australia. Significant judgment is required in evaluating the Companys tax positions and determining its provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The Company establishes reserves for tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. These reserves for tax contingencies are established when the Company believes that certain positions might be challenged despite the Companys belief that its tax return positions are fully supportable. The Company adjusts these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of a tax audit or lapse of a statute of limitations. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. Stock-based compensation. We have applied FASB ASC 718 Share-Based Payment (ASC 718) and accordingly, we record stock-based compensation expense for all of our stock-based awards. Under ASC 718, we estimate the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The fair value for awards that are expected to vest is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the option vesting term. The amount of expense recognized represents the expense associated with the stock options we expect to ultimately vest based upon an estimated rate of forfeitures; this rate of forfeitures is updated as necessary and any adjustments needed to recognize the fair value of options that actually vest or are forfeited are recorded. The Black-Scholes option pricing model, used to estimate the fair value of an award, requires the input of subjective assumptions, including the expected volatility of our common stock, interest rates, dividend rates and an options expected life. As a result, the financial statements include amounts that are based upon our best estimates and judgments relating to the expenses recognized for stock-based compensation. In the past, the Company granted restricted stock subject to market or performance conditions that vest based on the satisfaction of the conditions of the award. Unvested restricted stock entitles the grantees to dividends, if any, with voting rights determined in each agreement. The fair market values of market condition-based awards are determined using the Monte Carlo simulation method. The Monte Carlo simulation method is subject to variability as several factors utilized must be estimated, including the derived service period, which is estimated based on the Companys judgment of likely future performance and the Companys stock price volatility. The fair value of performance-based awards is determined using the market closing price on the grant date. Derived service periods and the periods charged with compensation expense for performance-based awards are estimated based on the Companys judgment of likely future performance and may be adjusted in future periods depending on actual performance. Preferred Stock The Company applies the guidance enumerated in FASB ASC 480-10, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of both Liabilities and Equity (ASC 480-10) when determining the classification and measurement of preferred stock. Preferred shares subject to mandatory redemption (if any) are classified as liability instruments and are measured at fair value in accordance with ASC 480-10. All other issuances of preferred stock are subject to the classification and measurement principles of ASC 480-10. Accordingly, the Company classifies conditionally redeemable preferred shares (if any), which includes preferred shares that feature redemption rights that are either within the control of the holder or subject to redemption upon the occurrence of uncertain events not solely within the Companys control, as temporary equity. At all other times, the Company classifies its preferred shares in stockholders equity. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In April 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-08, Presentation of Financial Statements and Property, Plant, and Equipment: Reporting Discontinued Operations and Disclosures of Disposals of Components of an Entity. ASU 2014-08 limits the requirement to report discontinued operations to disposals of components of an entity that represent strategic shifts that have (or will have) a major effect on an entitys operations and financial results. The amendments also require expanded disclosures concerning discontinued operations and disclosures of certain financial results attributable to a disposal of a significant component of an entity that does not qualify for discontinued operations reporting. These amendments are effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014, with early adoption permitted. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or presentation thereof. 46 In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The new standard is effective as of the first interim period within annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2018, and will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP. Early application is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We are evaluating the effect that ASU 2014-09 will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method or determined the effect of the standard on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or presentation thereof. In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-12, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718). The pronouncement was issued to clarify the accounting for share-based payments when the terms of an award provide that a performance target could be achieved after the requisite service period. The pronouncement is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or presentation thereof. In August 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-15, Presentation of Financial Statements Going concern (Subtopic 205-40). The amendments in this update provide guidance in GAAP about managements responsibility to evaluate whether there is substantial doubt about an entitys ability to continue as a going concern and to provide related footnote disclosures. In doing so, the amendments should reduce diversity in the timing and content of footnote disclosures. The pronouncement is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016. The adoption of this ASU 2014-15 is not expected to have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or presentation thereof. In January 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-01, Income StatementExtraordinary and Unusual Items (Subtopic 225-20). The objective is to identify, evaluate, and improve areas of GAAP for which cost and complexity can be reduced while maintaining or improving the usefulness of the information provided to the users of the financial statements. ASU No. 2015-01 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within those annual periods. The adoption of ASU 2015-01 is not expected to have a significant impact on the Companys consolidated financial position or results of operations. In May 1, 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-05, Customers Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement ("ASU No. 2015-05") to reduce the diversity in practice, and reduce the costs and complexity of assessing fees paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangements (CCA). While the new standard does not provide explicit guidance on how to account for fees paid in a CCA, it does provide guidance on which existing accounting model should be applied. ASU No. 2015-05 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2015, and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company expects to adopt this guidance during its 2016 fiscal year and does not expect it will have a significant impact on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Other authoritative guidance issued by the FASB (including technical corrections to the FASB Accounting Standards Codification), the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, and the SEC did not, or are not expected to have a material effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements. I TEM 7A.