Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our operating results. Our sales contracts are primarily denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore a substantial portion of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our offerings to our customers outside of the U.S., which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, an increasing portion of our operating revenues and operating expenses is earned or incurred outside of the U.S., and an increasing portion of our assets is held outside of the U.S. These operating revenues, expenses and assets are denominated in foreign currencies and are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are not able to successfully manage, or to implement strategies to manage, against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our operating results could be adversely affected. Additionally, global events as well as geopolitical developments, including regional conflicts in Europe and the Middle East, fluctuating commodity prices, trade tariff developments and inflation have caused, and may in the future cause, global economic uncertainty and uncertainty about the interest rate environment, which could amplify the volatility of currency fluctuations. We have not engaged in the hedging of foreign currency transactions to date, so we may not be able to effectively offset the adverse financial impacts that may result from unfavorable movements in foreign currency exchange rates, which could adversely affect our operating results. We could be required to collect additional sales taxes or be subject to other tax liabilities that may increase the costs our clients would have to pay for our offering and adversely affect our operating results. A successful assertion by one or more states or foreign jurisdictions requiring us to collect taxes where we presently do not do so, or to collect more taxes in a jurisdiction in which we currently do collect some taxes, could result in substantial tax liabilities, including taxes on past sales, as well as penalties and interest. Any imposition by state or local governments or other jurisdictions of sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state or -jurisdiction sellers could also create additional administrative burdens for us, put us at a competitive disadvantage if they do not impose similar obligations on our competitors and decrease our future sales, which could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Docusign, Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 27 Legal and Regulatory Risks We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to e-signature, marketing, advertising, privacy, data protection and information security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with laws or regulations could harm our business. The U.S. federal government and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use and storage of data relating to individuals and businesses, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the U.S., various laws, and regulations and agency rules and opinions apply to the collection, processing, disclosure and security of certain types of data, including: The ESIGN Act in the U.S., eIDAS in the EU and similar U.S. state laws, particularly the Uniform Electronic Transactions Act (the UETA), which authorize the creation of legally binding and enforceable agreements utilizing electronic signatures and records. We are particularly reliant on the UETA and the ESIGN Act, which together have solidified the legal landscape in the U.S. for use of electronic signatures and records by providing that electronic signatures and records carry the same weight and have the same legal effect as paper documents and wet ink signatures. The Electronic Communications Privacy Act, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, and state laws relating to privacy and data security. Additionally, the FTC and many U.S. state attorney generals are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of personal information. For example, California has enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act (as amended, the CCPA), that subjects businesses to new regulations promulgated through a recently created enforcement agency called the California Privacy Protection Agency. Over a third of other U.S. states have passed comparable legislation, and several additional U.S. states may pass similar legislation with potentially greater penalties, and more rigorous compliance requirements relevant to our business. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) in the U.S. (as amended and supplemented by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (HITECH)), and even more stringent state health information privacy laws, impose mandatory contractual terms and other obligations with respect to safeguarding the privacy, security and transmission of protected health information and de-identified health information. We may function as a HIPAA business associate for certain of our customers and, as such, are subject to applicable privacy and data security requirements. Failure to comply with applicable HIPAA requirements can result in significant civil monetary penalties and, in certain circumstances, criminal penalties and fines. Additionally, we are subject to various other laws and regulations affecting our business. For example, the SEC has adopted cybersecurity risk management and disclosure rules, which require mandatory disclosure of information pertaining to cybersecurity incidents and cybersecurity risk management, strategy and governance. In March 2024, the SEC also adopted (but subsequently stayed the implementation of) amendments that would require us to disclose certain climate-related information in our annual reports beginning with our annual report covering fiscal year ended January 31, 2026. Additionally, California recently adopted the Climate Corporate Data Accountability Act and the Climate-Related Financial Risk Act, each of which mandate certain climate-related public disclosure requirements (although there are proposals to stay such requirements until 2028). We expect that new laws, regulations and industry standards will continue to be proposed and enacted relating to privacy, data protection, marketing, advertising, electronic signatures, consumer communications and information security in the U.S., the EU and other jurisdictions, and we cannot determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations or any changed interpretation of existing laws or regulations could impair our ability to develop and market new functionality and maintain and grow our customer base and increase revenue. For example, changes in the regulatory landscape relating to new and evolving technologies, such as generative AI, and future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of data, or additional requirements for the express or implied consent of our customers, partners or end consumers for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to incur additional costs or modify our products and solutions, possibly in a material manner, and could limit our ability to develop new functionality. Any actual or perceived failure to comply with these or other laws or regulations could harm our business, and result in legal liability, regulatory action, or brand and reputational harm. Docusign, Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 28 Complying with laws and regulations related to privacy and data protection could result in additional costs and liabilities to us or inhibit sales of our software. A wide variety of state, national, and international laws, regulations, and industry standards apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer and other processing of personal data and other information, the scope of which are consistently changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent across countries or conflict with other rules. Data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and may result in increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. Complying with these various laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices, systems, and compliance procedures in a manner adverse to our business. For more information on these laws and their impact on our business, see the risk factor We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our business, including those related to e-signature, marketing, advertising, privacy, data protection and information security. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with laws or regulations could harm our business. Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data privacy and security legal framework with which we, our customers and partners may need to comply. For example, in Europe, the General Data Protection Regulation (the EU GDPR) contains robust obligations on data controllers and processors and fulsome documentation requirements for data protection compliance programs by companies. As a result of our presence in Europe and the United Kingdom (UK) and our products and services being offered in the EU and the UK, we are subject to the EU GDPR and other similar regional European data privacy and protection regulations (collectively the GDPR), all of which impose stringent data protection and cybersecurity requirements, and could increase the risk of non-compliance and the costs of providing our services in a compliant manner. We are also certified as a Privacy Rights Processor under the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation. A breach of the GDPR, or other such data protection regulations, could result in regulatory investigations, reputational damage, fines and sanctions, orders to cease or change our processing of our data, enforcement notices, or assessment notices (for a compulsory audit). Such penalties, which under GDPR may include fines up to the greater of 20 million (17.5 million) or 4% of global turnover, are in addition to any civil litigation claims by customers and data subjects. We may also face civil claims including representative actions and other class action-type litigation (where individuals have suffered harm), potentially amounting to significant compensation or damages liabilities, as well as associated costs, diversion of internal resources, and reputational harm. Additionally, the GDPR imposes strict rules on the transfer of personal data out of the EU or the UK to any country whose laws have not been deemed by regulators in the EU or UK to ensure an adequate level of data protection safeguards (such as the U.S.). These obligations may evolve, be interpreted or applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other requirements or our practices. For example, in June 2023, the European Commission adopted an adequacy decision (UK Adequacy Decision) which facilitates personal data sharing from the European Economic Area (EEA) to the UK without the need for additional data protection safeguards. The UK Adequacy Decision includes a sunset clause, rendering the decision valid for four years, after which it will be reviewed by the European Commission and renewed only if the European Commission considers that the UK continues to ensure an adequate level of data protection. The European Commission also stated that it would intervene at any point within the four years if the UK deviates from the level of protection presently in place. If this adequacy decision is reversed by the European Commission, it would require that companies implement protection measures such as the approved Standard Contractual Clauses for data transfers between the EU and the UK. Legal developments in Europe continue to evolve, creating complexity and uncertainty regarding transfers of personal data from the EU and the UK to the U.S. We currently utilize respective Binding Corporate Rules and Standard Contractual Clauses as the approved data transfer mechanisms by the EU Commission for corresponding applicable data transfer activity. While we do not anticipate any immediate changes in our current operations, we will continue to monitor these legal developments. We have been and may in the future be subject to legal proceedings and litigation for a variety of claims, including labor and employment issues, intellectual property disputes, securities law violations, derivative litigation and other matters, which may be costly and may subject us to significant liability and increased costs of doing business. Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others or if the cost and time-commitment of litigation diverts resources from our other business activities. From time to time, we have been and may in the future be involved as a party or an indemnitor in legal proceedings, disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. These may include alleged claims, lawsuits and proceedings regarding labor and employment issues, commercial disagreements, securities law violations and other matters. In particular, companies in the software industry are often required to defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have from time to time been Docusign, Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 29 subject to intellectual property claims and disputes and may be subject to such claims in the future. In addition, many of these companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their alleged intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. Any litigation may also involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenue and against which our patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. If a third party is able to obtain an injunction preventing us from utilizing such third-party intellectual property rights, or if we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our software or cease business activities employed by such intellectual property and may be unable to compete effectively. Any inability to license third-party technology in the future would have an adverse effect on our business or operating results and would adversely affect our ability to compete. Such disputes may require us to redesign our products, delay releases, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling our products and solutions. Requiring us to change one or more aspects of the way we deliver our products and solutions may harm our business. We may also be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers in the event of infringement of a third partys intellectual property rights. Responding to such claims, including those currently pending, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming and costly to defend in litigation and damage our reputation and brand. For more information on our pending legal proceedings, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K. Regardless of the merits or ultimate outcome of any claims that have been or may be brought against us or that we may bring against others, lawsuits are time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert managements time and attention, and could harm our reputation. Although we carry general liability and other forms of insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims that arise or may not be adequate to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. We may also determine that the most cost-effective way to resolve a dispute is to enter into a settlement agreement. Litigation is inherently unpredictable and we cannot predict the timing, nature, controversy or outcome of lawsuits or assure you that the results of any of these actions will not have an adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We could incur substantial costs in protecting or defending our proprietary rights, and any failure to adequately protect our rights could impair our competitive position and we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced revenue and incur costly litigation to protect our rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, trade secret laws and contractual provisions in an effort to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, the steps we take to protect our intellectual property may be inadequate. While we have been issued patents in the U.S. and other countries and have additional patent applications pending, we may be unable to obtain patent protection for the technology covered in our patent applications. In addition, any patents issued in the future may not provide us with competitive advantages or may be successfully challenged by third parties. Any of our patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged or circumvented by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. There can be no guarantee that others will not independently develop similar products, duplicate any of our products or design around our patents. Furthermore, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights are uncertain. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for unauthorized third parties to copy our products or aspects of our platform and use information that we regard as proprietary to create products and solutions that compete with ours. Some license provisions protecting against unauthorized use, copying, transfer and disclosure of our products may be unenforceable under the laws of jurisdictions outside the U.S. Additionally, we are unable to predict or assure that rights previously granted by third parties to intellectual property licensed or assigned to us will not hamper our ability to assert our intellectual property rights or hinder the settlement of currently pending or future disputes; or that any of our pending or future copyright or trademark applications will be issued or have the coverage originally sought. To the extent we expand our international activities, our exposure to unauthorized copying and use of our products and proprietary information may increase. We enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants and enter into confidentiality agreements with the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances. No assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our products and proprietary information or prevent infringement, violation, or misappropriation of our intellectual property. Further, these agreements do not prevent our competitors or partners from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our products and solutions. In order to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect and enforce these rights, including through litigation. Litigation brought to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, our efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be Docusign, Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 30 met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation or diversion of our managements attention and resources, could delay further sales or the implementation of our products and solutions, impair the functionality of our products and solutions, delay introductions of new solutions, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our products and solutions or injure our reputation. Moreover, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments, and if securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We will not be able to protect our intellectual property if we are unable to enforce our rights or if we do not detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property. Moreover, policing unauthorized use of our technologies, trade secrets and intellectual property may be difficult, expensive and time-consuming, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the U.S. and where mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be less effective. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Many of our customers deploy our products and solutions globally, and our products and solutions must comply with certain legal and regulatory requirements in varying countries. If our products and solutions fail to meet these requirements, we could incur significant liabilities and our financial condition may suffer. Many customers use our products and solutions globally to comply with safe harbors and other legislation in the countries in which they transact business. For example, some of our customers rely on government authorizations we maintain, such as FedRAMP in the U.S, or certifications such as our qualification as a Trust Service Provider under eIDAS in the EU to help satisfy their own legal and regulatory compliance requirements. If a court or regulatory body determines that our products and solutions are inadequate to meet these requirements, documents executed through our products and solutions could, in some instances, be rendered unenforceable, resulting in potential loss of customers, liability under customer contracts, and brand and reputational damage. We use open source software in our products, which could subject us to litigation or other actions. We use open source software in our products and solutions. Any use of open source software may expose us to greater risks than the use of commercial software because open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the functionality or origin of the software. Any use of open source software may involve security risks, making it easier for hackers and other third parties to determine how to compromise our platform. On occasion, companies that use open source software have faced claims challenging their use of open source software or compliance with open source license terms. There is evolving legal precedent for interpreting the terms of certain open source licenses, including the determination of which works are subject to the terms of such licenses. As a result, we could be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our products. In addition, if we were to combine our proprietary software products with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software products. This would allow our competitors to create similar offerings with lower development effort and time and ultimately could result in a loss of sales for us. If we inappropriately use or incorporate open source software subject to certain types of open source licenses that challenge the proprietary nature of our software products, we may be required to re-engineer our products, discontinue the sale of our products and solutions or take other remedial actions that may divert resources away from our development efforts. Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement, data protection and other losses. Our agreements with some customers and other third parties include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement, data protection, violations, data breaches or cyberattacks, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our offerings, solutions or other contractual obligations. Some of these indemnity provisions provide for uncapped liability for which we would be responsible, and some indemnity provisions survive termination or expiration of the applicable agreement. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we normally contractually limit our liability with respect to such obligations, such limitations may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions, and we may still incur substantial liability related to them and we may be required to cease use of certain functions of our products and solutions as a result of any such claims. In addition, our customer agreements generally include a warranty that the proper use of Docusign by a customer in accordance with Docusign, Inc. | 2025 Form 10-K | 31 the agreement and applicable law will be sufficient to meet the definition of an electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act (ESIGN Act) and eIDAS. Any warranty or indemnification claim brought by our customers could result in damage to our reputation and harm our business and operating results. Changes in tax laws, rulings and interpretations may subject us to potential adverse tax consequences, which could negatively affect our financial position and results of operations. We operate globally and are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous other jurisdictions throughout the world, and the tax regimes we are subject to or operate under, including income and non-income taxes, are unsettled and may be subject to significant change. The U.S., other jurisdictions or governmental bodies, such as the European Commission of the European Union, and intergovernmental economic organizations, such as the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, have made or could make unprecedented assertions about how taxation is determined and, in some cases, have proposed or enacted new laws that are contrary to the way in which rules or regulations have historically been interpreted and applied. For example, in 2021, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development announced Pillar Two Model Rules defining the global minimum tax, which calls for the taxation of large multinational corporations at a minimum of 15%. Many non-U.S. tax jurisdictions have either recently enacted legislation to adopt certain components of the Pillar Two Model Rules beginning in 2024, including the adoption of additional components in later years, or announced their plans to enact legislation in future years. Our effective tax rate could increase in future years as a result of these changes, which could have an adverse impact on our business and operating results. Additionally, our corporate structure and associated transfer pricing policies contemplate future growth into international markets, and consider the functions, risks and assets of the various entities involved in the intercompany transactions. We may be subject to taxation in international jurisdictions with increasingly complex tax laws and precedents which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity and operating results. The amount of taxes we pay in these different jurisdictions may depend on the application of the tax laws of those jurisdictions, including the U.S., to our international business activities, changes in tax rates, new or revised tax laws or interpretations of existing tax laws and policies and our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. Furthermore, tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate may challenge our transfer pricing policies and intercompany arrangements or disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a challenge or disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. Our financial statements could fail to reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or to our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries which could have a material impact on us and the results of our operations. The requirements of being a public company, including developing and maintaining proper and effective disclosure