Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities and equity, and the amount of revenue and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to allocation of revenue between recognized and deferred amounts, allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill and intangible assets, fair value of financial instruments, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of warrant liabilities and the valuation allowance for deferred income taxes. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We have incurred substantial indebtedness that may decrease our business flexibility, access to capital and/or increase our borrowing costs, and we may still incur substantially more debt, which may adversely affect our operations and financial results. As of January 31, 2019 , we had $575.0 million (undiscounted) principal amount of indebtedness under our Notes. Our indebtedness may: limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; limit our ability to use our cash flow or obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general business purposes; require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make debt service payments; limit our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and industry; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our less leveraged competitors; and increase our vulnerability to the impact of adverse economic and industry conditions. Further, the indenture governing the Notes does not restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and we and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in any future debt instruments existing at the time, some of which may be secured indebtedness. Future indebtedness could restrict our operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes in our business or to take specified actions. Any future indebtedness would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to take actions that may be in our best interests. Our ability to meet those financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to continue to meet those covenants. If we seek to enter into a credit facility we may not be able to obtain debt financing on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms that are satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. 31 We may not be able to successfully manage the growth of our business if we are unable to improve our internal systems, processes and controls. We need to continue to improve our internal systems, processes and controls to effectively manage our operations and growth. In addition, because we have acquired companies in the past and may continue to do so in the future, we will also need to expend resources to integrate the controls of these acquired entities with ours. We may not be able to successfully implement and scale improvements to our systems and processes in a timely or efficient manner or in a manner that does not negatively affect our operating results. For example, we may not be able to effectively monitor certain extraordinary contract requirements or provisions that are individually negotiated by our sales force as the number of transactions continues to grow. In addition, our systems and processes may not prevent or detect all errors, omissions or fraud. We may experience difficulties in managing improvements to our systems, processes and controls or in connection with third-party software, which could impair our ability to provide products or services to our customers in a timely manner, causing us to lose customers, limit us to smaller deployments of our products or increase our technical support costs. Risks Related to Our Notes We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of the Notes in cash or to repurchase the Notes upon a fundamental change, and our future debt may contain limitations on our ability to pay cash upon conversion or repurchase of the Notes. Subject to certain conditions, holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change (as defined in the indenture governing the Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 100% of t he principal amount of the Notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to, but excluding, the fundamental change repurchase date. In addition, if a make-whole fundamental change (as defined in the indenture for the Notes) occurs prior to the maturity date of the Notes, we will in some cases be required to increase the conversion rate for a holder that elects to convert its Notes in connection with such make-whole fundamental change. Upon a conversion of the Notes, unless we elect to deliver solely shares of our common stock to settle such conversion (other than paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we will be required to make cash payments in respect of the Notes being converted. However, we may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to make repurchases of Notes surrendered therefor or pay cash with respect to Notes being converted. In addition, our ability to repurchase or to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes may be limited by law, regulatory authority or agreements governing our future indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the Notes at a time when the repurchase is required by the indenture governing the Notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes as required by the indenture would constitute a default under the indenture. A default under the indenture or the fundamental change itself could also lead to a default under agreements governing our future indebtedness. If the payment of the related indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness and repurchase the Notes or to pay cash upon conversion of the Notes. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our substantial debt. Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness, including the amounts payable under the Notes, and any future borrowings or other future indebtedness, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations. We may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions that would diminish our ability to make payments on the Notes when due. We and our subsidiaries may incur substantial additional debt in the future, some of which may be secured debt. We are not restricted under the terms of the indenture governing the Notes from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make 32 payments on the Notes when due. Furthermore, the indenture prohibits us from engaging in certain mergers or acquisitions unless, among other things, the surviving entity assumes our obligations under the Notes and the indenture. These and other provisions in the indenture could deter or prevent a third party from acquiring us even when the acquisition may be favorable to holders of the Notes. The conditional conversion feature of the Notes, if triggered, may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In the event the conditional conversion feature of the Notes is triggered, holders of the Notes will be entitled to convert the Notes at any time during specified periods at their option. If one or more holders elect to convert their Notes, unless we elect to satisfy our conversion obligation by delivering solely shares of our common stock (other than by paying cash in lieu of delivering any fractional share), we may settle all or a portion of our conversion obligation in cash, which could adversely affect our liquidity. In addition, even if holders do not elect to convert their Notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our net working capital. The capped call transactions may affect the value of the Notes and our common stock. In connection with the Notes, we entered into capped call transactions with certain financial institutions, or the option counterparties. The capped call transactions are expected generally to reduce the potential dilution upon any conversion of the Notes and/or offset any cash payments we are required to make in excess of the principal amount upon conversion of the Notes, with such reduction and/or offset subject to a cap. In connection with establishing their initial hedges of the capped call transactions, the option counterparties and/or their respective affiliates purchased shares of our common stock and/or entered into various derivative transactions with respect to our common stock. This activity could have increased (or reduced the size of any decrease in) the market price of our common stock or the Notes at that time. In addition, the option counterparties and/or their respective affiliates may modify their hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock in secondary market transactions (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes or following any repurchase of notes by us on any fundamental change repurchase date or otherwise). This activity could also cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the price of our common stock or the Notes. The potential effect, if any, of these transactions and activities on the price of our common stock or the Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time. Any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Conversion of the Notes will dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their Notes, or may otherwise depress the price of our common stock. The conversion of some or all of the Notes will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders to the extent we deliver shares of our common stock upon conversion of any of the Notes. The Notes may become in the future convertible at the option of the holders of the Notes prior to June 15, 2023 under certain circumstances as provided in the indenture governing the Notes. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could be used to satisfy short positions, or anticipated conversion of the Notes into shares of our common stock could depress the price of our common stock. The accounting method for convertible debt securities that may be settled in cash, such as the Notes, could have a material effect on our reported financial results. In May 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement), which has subsequently been codified as Accounting Standards Codification 470-20, Debt with Conversion and Other Options, or ASC 470-20. Under ASC 470-20, an entity must separately account for the liability and equity components of the convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuers economic interest cost. The effect of ASC 470-20 on the accounting for the Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in the 33 additional paid-in capital section of stockholders equity on our consolidated balance sheet, and the value of the equity component would be treated as original issue discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Notes. As a result, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current periods presented as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Notes to their face amount over the term of the Notes. We will report larger net losses or lower net income in our financial results because ASC 470-20 will require interest to include both the current periods amortization of the debt discount and the instruments non-convertible coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the trading price of our common stock and the trading price of the Notes. In addition, under certain circumstances, convertible debt instruments (such as the Notes) that may be settled entirely or partly in cash are currently accounted for utilizing the treasury stock method, the effect of which is that the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Notes exceeds their principal amount. Under the treasury stock method, for diluted earnings per share purposes, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess, if we elected to settle such excess in shares, are issued. We cannot be sure that the accounting standards in the future will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Notes, then our diluted earnings per share would be adversely affected. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of our common stock may decline. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile and may fluctuate or decline substantially as a result of a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control or are related in complex ways, including: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; variance in our financial performance from expectations of securities analysts; changes in the prices of subscriptions to our solutions; changes in our projected operating and financial results; changes in laws or regulations applicable to our solutions; announcements by us or our competitors of significant business developments, acquisitions or new offerings; our involvement in any litigation; future sales of our common stock or other securities, by us or our stockholders, as well as the anticipation of lock-up releases; changes in senior management or key personnel; the trading volume of our common stock; changes in the anticipated future size and growth rate of our market; and general economic, regulatory and market conditions. Broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political, regulatory and market conditions, may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their securities have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future, which could result in substantial costs and divert our managements attention. We have spent and anticipate spending substantial funds in connection with the tax liabilities on the settlement of the restricted stock units, or RSUs. The manner in which we fund these expenditures may have an adverse effect on our financial condition. We anticipate that we will spend substantial funds to satisfy tax withholding and remittance obligations when we settle the RSUs granted by us. In the quarter ended January 31, 2019, we expended $215.3 million to satisfy tax withholding and remittance obligations on RSUs that settled during the period, primarily in connection with our initial public offering, or IPO. To settle these RSUs, we delivered 8.1 million shares of common stock to RSU holders after withholding 5.3 million shares of our common stock. We withheld shares and remitted income taxes on behalf of the holders at the applicable minimum statutory rates, which we refer to as a net settlement. To fund these withholding and remittance obligations, we used a substantial portion of our existing cash. If in the future we continue to satisfy the employee portion of payroll tax withholding obligations through net settlement, we would expect to use a substantial portion of our cash and cash equivalent balances, or alternately we may choose to sell 34 equity or debt securities or borrow funds or rely on a combination of these alternatives. In the event that we sell equity securities and are unable to match successfully the proceeds to the amount of the tax liability, the newly issued shares may be dilutive, and such sale could also result in a decline of our stock price. In the event that we elect to satisfy tax withholding and remittance obligations in whole or in part by incurring debt, our interest expense and principal repayment requirements could increase significantly, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. We are unable to predict the effect that such sales may have on the prevailing market price of our common stock. Under our investors rights agreement, certain stockholders can require us to register shares owned by them for public sale in the U.S. In addition, we filed a registration statement to register shares reserved for future issuance under our equity compensation plans. As a result, subject to the satisfaction of applicable exercise periods and the expiration or waiver of the market standoff agreements and lock-up agreements referred to above, the shares issued upon exercise of outstanding stock options or upon settlement of outstanding RSU awards will be available for immediate resale in the U.S. in the open market. Future sales of shares of our common stock, particularly as lock-up restrictions end, may make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. These sales also could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for you to sell shares of our common stock. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish unfavorable or inaccurate research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. Our stock price and trading volume is heavily influenced by the way analysts and investors interpret our financial information and other disclosures. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or reports about our business, delay publishing reports about our business or publish negative reports about our business, regardless of accuracy, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends, in part, on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. A limited number of analysts are currently covering our company. If the number of analysts that cover us declines, demand for our common stock could decrease and our common stock price and trading volume may decline. Even if our common stock is actively covered by analysts, we do not have any control over the analysts or the measures that analysts or investors may rely upon to forecast our future results. Over-reliance by analysts or investors on any particular metric to forecast our future results may result in forecasts that differ significantly from our own. In addition, as required by the new revenue recognition standards under ASC 606, we disclose the aggregate amount of transaction price allocated to performance obligations that are unsatisfied (or partially unsatisfied) as of the end of the reporting period. Market practices surrounding the calculation of this measure are still evolving. It is possible that analysts and investors could misinterpret our disclosure or that the terms of our customer contracts or other circumstances could cause our methods for preparing this disclosure to differ significantly from others, which could lead to inaccurate or unfavorable forecasts by analysts and investors. Regardless of accuracy, unfavorable interpretations of our financial information and other public disclosures could have a negative impact on our stock price. If our financial performance fails to meet analyst estimates, for any of the reasons discussed above or otherwise, or one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or change their opinion of our common stock, our stock price would likely decline. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. Our common stock is currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, or Nasdaq, under the symbol DOCU and trades on that market. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our common stock will be sustained. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of the liquidity of any trading market, your ability to sell your shares of our common stock when desired, or the prices that you may obtain for your shares. 35 We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future and, as a result, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our capital stock, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, investors must rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investments. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and current beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock beneficially own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock. These persons, acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with the interests of other stockholders. We are an emerging growth company and we cannot be certain if the reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies will make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the JOBS Act, and we may take advantage of certain exemptions from various reporting requirements that are applicable to other public companies that are not emerging growth companies including, but not limited to, the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will incur increased costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management will be required to devote substantial time to compliance with our public company responsibilities and corporate governance practices. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, which we expect to further increase after we are no longer an emerging growth company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the listing requirements of the Nasdaq and other applicable securities rules and regulations impose various requirements on public companies. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to compliance with these requirements. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we will incur as a public company or the timing of such costs. As a result of being a public company, we are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting and any failure to maintain the adequacy of these internal controls may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending January 31, 2020. This assessment will need to include disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC following the date we are no longer an emerging growth company. We are required to disclose significant changes made in our internal control procedures on a quarterly basis. We have commenced the costly and challenging process of compiling the system and processing documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404, and we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. Our compliance with Section 404 will require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. In addition, because we have acquired companies in the past and may continue to do so in the future, we will also need to expend resources to integrate the controls of these acquired 36 entities with ours. We will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and compile the system and process documentation necessary to perform the evaluation needed to comply with Section 404. During the evaluation and testing process of our internal controls, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. We cannot assure you that there will not be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain internal control over financial reporting could severely inhibit our ability to accurately report our financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm determines we have a material weakness or significant deficiency in our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, the market price of our common stock could decline, and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the Nasdaq, the SEC or other regulatory authorities. Failure to remedy any material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, or to implement or maintain other effective control systems required of public companies, could also restrict our future access to the capital markets. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions that: authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights and preferences determined by our board of directors that may be senior to our common stock; require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the chairperson of our board of directors, or our chief executive officer; establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; provide that our directors may be removed for cause only upon the vote of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of our outstanding shares of common stock; provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of at least sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of our outstanding shares of common stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our management could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or the U.S. federal district courts are the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware is the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers or other employees to us or our stockholders, any action asserting a claim against us arising pursuant to any provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or our amended and restated bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us that is governed by the internal 37 affairs doctrine. These choice of forum provisions, if permitted by applicable law, may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits. If a court were to find either exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, which could seriously harm our business. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation further provides that the U.S. federal district courts will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. Recently, the Delaware Chancery Court issued an opinion invalidating such provision. In light of that recent decision, we will not attempt to enforce this provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation to the extent it is not permitted by applicable law. As a result, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving disputes that would otherwise by restricted by that provision in other jurisdictions, which could seriously harm our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in San Francisco, California, and consist of approximately 146,000 square feet under lease agreements that expire on August 9, 2024. We maintain additional offices in multiple locations in the U.S. and internationally in Europe, Asia, Israel, Brazil and Australia. We lease all of our facilities and do not own any real property. We intend to procure additional space in the future as we continue to add employees and expand geographically. We believe our facilities are adequate and suitable for our current needs and that, should it be needed, suitable additional or alternative space will be available to accommodate our operations. ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business. We are not presently a party to any legal proceedings that, if determined adversely to us, would individually or taken together have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We have received, and may in the future continue to receive, claims from third parties asserting, among other things, infringement of their intellectual property rights. Future litigation may be necessary to defend ourselves, our partners and our customers by determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third-party proprietary rights, or to establish our proprietary rights. The results of any current or future litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources and other factors. ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES None. PART II - OTHER INFORMATION Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK Market Price of Our Common Stock Our common stock is traded on Nasdaq, under the symbol DOCU. Holders of our Common Stock As of February 28, 2019, there were 248 holders of record of our common stock. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. Dividend Policy 38 We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Stock Performance Graph This performance graph shall not be deemed filed with the SEC for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or incorporated by reference into any filing of DocuSign, Inc under the Securities Act. The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested at the market close on April 27, 2018 which was our initial trading day, in our common stock. Data for the S&P 500 Index and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index assume reinvestment of dividends. Our offering price of our common stock in our IPO, which had a closing stock price of $39.73 on April 27, 2018, was $29.00 per share. The comparisons in the graph below are based upon historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of our common stock. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities From February 1, 2018 through April 30, 2018, we issued under our 2011 Plan RSUs an aggregate of 1,036,698 shares of our common stock to employees and a director. Over the same period, 1,075,815 shares of common stock were issued upon the exercise of options granted under our 2011 Plan. The offers, sales and issuances of the securities described in the preceding paragraph were deemed to be exempt from registration either under Rule 701 promulgated under the Securities Act, or Rule 701, in that the transactions were under compensatory benefit plans and contracts relating to compensation, or under Section 4(a)(2) of the Securities Act in that the transactions were between an issuer and members of its senior executive management and did not involve any public offering within the meaning of Section 4(a)(2). The recipients of such securities were our employees, directors or consultants and received the securities under our equity incentive plans. Appropriate legends were affixed to the securities issued in these transactions. 39 Use of Proceeds On May 1, 2018, we completed our IPO, in which we issued and sold 19.3 million shares of common stock at a price to the public of $29.00 per share, including 3.3 million shares of common stock purchased by the underwriters from the full exercise of the over-allotment option and excluding shares of common stock sold in our IPO by certain of our existing stockholders. The offer and sale of all of the shares in our IPO were registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-223990), or IPO Registration Statement, which was declared effective by the SEC on April 26, 2018. There has been no material change in the planned use of our net IPO proceeds as described in our Prospectus. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA The selected consolidated statement of operations data for the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 , have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The selected consolidated statement of operations data for the year ended January 31, 2016 , and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of January 31, 2017 and 2016 , have been derived from our audited consolidated financial statements that are not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should read the following selected consolidated financial data in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes and the information in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any other period in the future. 40 Consolidated Statements of Operations Data: Year Ended January 31, 2019 (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 2016 Revenue: Subscription $ 663,657 $ 484,581 $ 348,563 $ 229,127 Professional services and other 37,312 33,923 32,896 21,354 Total revenue 700,969 518,504 381,459 250,481 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1) 117,764 83,834 73,363 48,656 Professional services and other (1) 74,657 34,439 29,114 25,199 Total cost of revenue 192,421 118,273 102,477 73,855 Gross profit 508,548 400,231 278,982 176,626 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 539,606 277,930 240,787 170,006 Research and development (1) 185,968 92,428 89,652 62,255 General and administrative (1) 209,297 81,526 64,360 63,669 Total expenses 934,871 451,884 394,799 295,930 Loss from operations (426,323 ) (51,653 ) (115,817 ) (119,304 ) Interest expense (10,844 ) (624 ) (611 ) (780 ) Interest income and other income, net 8,959 3,135 1,372 (3,508 ) Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (428,208 ) (49,142 ) (115,056 ) (123,592 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (1,750 ) 3,134 356 (1,033 ) Net loss $ (426,458 ) $ (52,276 ) $ (115,412 ) $ (122,559 ) Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (3.16 ) $ (1.66 ) $ (4.17 ) $ (4.76 ) Weighted-average number of shares used in computing net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted 135,163 32,294 28,020 26,052 (1) Includes stock-based compensation and amortization of intangibles as follows: Year Ended January 31, 2019 (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 2016 Stock-based compensation: Cost of revenuesubscription $ 16,182 $ 911 $ 1,190 $ 1,074 Cost of revenueprofessional services 25,858 976 1,021 1,297 Sales and marketing 172,115 9,386 11,187 10,617 Research and development 74,108 4,896 10,161 8,221 General and administrative 122,715 13,578 11,884 11,455 Amortization of intangibles: Cost of revenuesubscription 6,081 6,793 6,940 4,030 Sales and marketing 7,021 3,250 3,385 1,965 Year ended January 31, 2019, includes $262.8 million of stock-based compensation expense related to RSUs, for which the performance-based condition was satisfied on April 26, 2018, the effective date of our IPO Registration Statement. 41 Consolidated Balance Sheet Data January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 2016 Cash, cash equivalents and investments $ 933,234 $ 256,867 $ 190,556 $ 228,523 Working capital 468,208 44,976 44,250 132,486 Total assets 1,615,417 619,973 499,638 486,487 Contract liabilities, current and non-current 388,772 277,924 190,151 130,713 Convertible senior notes, net 438,932 Redeemable convertible preferred stock 547,501 546,040 544,584 Accumulated deficit (928,778 ) (502,320 ) (450,044 ) (334,632 ) Total stockholders equity (deficit) 614,362 (338,648 ) (347,355 ) (276,145 ) Year ended January 31, 2019, reflects the acquisition of SpringCM for $218.8 million . ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in the section titled Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors under Part I, Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our fiscal year ends January 31. Executive Overview of Fiscal 2019 Results Overview DocuSign accelerates the process of doing business for companies and simplifies life for their customers and employees. We accomplish this by transforming the foundational element of business: the agreement. As the core part of our broader software suite for automating the agreement process, we offer the worlds #1 e-signature solution. Our software suite has achieved widespread adoption by businesses of all sizes by enabling them to digitally prepare, execute and act on agreements. We offer access to our eSignature platform on a subscription basis and price such subscriptions based on the functionality required by our customers and the quantity of Envelopes provisioned. Similar to how physical agreements were mailed for signature in paper envelopes historically, an Envelope is a digital container used to send one or more documents for signature or approval to one or more recipients. Our customers have the flexibility to put a large number of documents in an Envelope. For a number of use cases, multiple Envelopes are used over the course of the process. For example, in the purchase or sale of a home, multiple Envelopes are used over the course of the home-buying process. To drive customer reach and adoption, we also offer for free certain limited-time or feature-constrained versions of our platform. We generate substantially all our revenue from sales of subscriptions, which accounted for 95% , 93% and 91% of our revenue in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . Our subscription fees include the use of our software suite and access to customer support. Subscriptions generally range from one to three years, and substantially all our multi-year customers pay in annual installments, one year in advance. We also generate revenue from professional and other non-subscription services, which consists primarily of fees associated with providing new customers deployment and integration services. Other revenue includes amounts derived from sales of on-premises solutions. Professional services and other revenue accounted for 5% , 7% and 9% of our revenue in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . We anticipate continuing to invest in customer success through our professional services offerings as we believe it plays an important role in accelerating our customers deployment of our software suite, which helps to drive customer retention and expansion of the use of the DocuSign Agreement Cloud. 42 We offer subscriptions to our software suite to enterprise businesses, commercial businesses and very small businesses, or VSBs, which include professionals, sole proprietorships and individuals. We sell to customers through multiple channels. Our go-to-market strategy relies on our direct sales force and partnerships to sell to enterprises and commercial businesses and our web-based self-service channel to sell to VSBs, which is the most cost-effective way to reach our smallest customers. We offer more than 300 off-the-shelf, prebuilt integrations with the applications that many of our customers already useincluding those offered by Google, Microsoft, NetSuite, Oracle, Salesforce, SAP, SAP SuccessFactors and Workdayso that they can create, sign, send and manage agreements from directly within these applications. We have a diverse customer base spanning various industries and countries with no significant customer concentration. No single customer accounted for more than 3% of total revenue in each of the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . We focused initially on selling our e-signature solutions to commercial businesses and VSBs. We later expanded our focus to target enterprise customers by adding our first enterprise sales professionals in the year ended January 31, 2011. In the year ended January 31, 2013, we began to gain meaningful traction selling into new enterprise accounts with aggregate annual contract value, ACV, exceeding $5 million. To demonstrate this growth over time, the number of our customers with greater than $300,000 in ACV has increased from approximately 30 as of January 31, 2013 to 310 customers as of January 31, 2019 . Each of our customer types have different purchasing patterns. VSBs tend to become customers quickly with very little to no direct interaction and generate smaller average contract values, while commercial and enterprise customers typically involve longer sales cycles, larger contract values and greater expansion opportunities for us. Financial Results for the Year Ended January 31, 2019 Year Ended January 31, 2019 Total revenue $ 700,969 Total costs and expenses 1,127,292 Total stock-based compensation expense 410,978 Loss from operations (426,323 ) Net loss (426,458 ) Cash provided by operating activities 76,086 Capital expenditures, including the acquisition of SpringCM (249,192 ) Cash, cash equivalents and investments were $933.2 million as of January 31, 2019 . Convertible Senior Notes On September 18, 2018, we offered and issued $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5% Convertible Senior Notes due 2023, or the Notes, unless earlier converted or repurchased in accordance with their terms. We received net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes of approximately $560.8 million after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and transaction costs. Interest on the Notes is payable semiannually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on March 15, 2019. To mitigate potential dilution resulting from the issuance of the Notes, we entered into privately-negotiated capped call transactions, or Capped Calls, at the cost of $67.6 million . Follow-On Offering On September 18, 2018, we completed our follow-on offering, in which certain stockholders sold 8.1 million shares of common stock. The price per share to the public was $55.00 . We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. We incurred issuance costs of $1.3 million associated with the sale of such shares. 43 Acquisition of SpringCM On September 4, 2018 , we completed the acquisition of SpringCM, a leading cloud-based document generation and contract lifecycle management software company based in Chicago, Illinois. With the addition of SpringCM's capabilities in document generation, redlining, advanced document management and end-to-end agreement workflow, the deal further accelerates the broadening of our solution beyond e-signature to the rest of the agreement processfrom preparing to signing, acting-on and managing agreements. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired SpringCM for $218.8 million in cash. Initial Public Offering On May 1, 2018, we completed our IPO, in which we issued and sold 19.3 million shares of common stock at the price to the public of $29.00 for net proceeds to us of approximately $523.9 million , after underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses. Upon the completion of our IPO, all 100.2 million shares of our convertible preferred stock automatically converted into an aggregate of 100.4 million shares of our common stock; all our outstanding warrants to purchase shares of convertible preferred stock converted into 22,468 warrants to purchase shares of common stock, with the related warrant liability of $0.8 million reclassified into additional paid-in capital; and our a mended and restated certificate of incorporation was filed and went in effect authorizing a total of 500.0 million shares of common stock and 10.0 million shares of preferred stock. Key Factors Affecting Our Performance We believe that our future performance will depend on many factors, including the following: Growing Our Customer Base We are highly focused on continuing to acquire new customers to support our long-term growth. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in our sales and marketing efforts to drive customer acquisition. As of January 31, 2019 , we had over 475,000 customers, including over 55,000 enterprise and commercial customers, as comp ared to over 370,000 customers and over 40,000 enterprise and commercial customers as of January 31, 2018 . We define a customer as a separate and distinct buying entity, such as a company, an educational or government institution, or a distinct business unit of a large company that has an active contract to access our software suite. We define enterprise customers as companies generally included in the Global 2000. We generally define commercial customers to include both mid-market companies, which includes companies outside the Global 2000 that have greater than 250 employees, and small-to-medium-sized businesses, or SMBs, which are companies with between 10 and 249 employees, in each case excluding any enterprise customers. VSBs include companies with fewer than 10 employees. We refer to total customers as all enterprises, commercial businesses and VSBs. We believe that our ability to increase the number of customers on our software suite, particularly the number of enterprise and commercial customers, is an indicator of our market penetration, the growth of our business and our potential future business opportunities. Increasing awareness of our software suite, further developing our sales and marketing expertise and continuing to build features tuned to different industry needs have expanded the diversity of our customer base to include organizations of all sizes across nearly every industry. Retaining and Expanding Contracts with Existing Enterprise and Commercial Customers Many of our customers have increased spend with us as they have expanded their use of our offerings in both existing and new use cases across their front or back office operations. Our enterprise and commercial customers may start with just one-use case and gradually implement additional use cases across their organization once they see the benefits of our software suite. Several of our largest enterprise customers have deployed our software suite for hundreds of use cases across their organizations. We believe there is significant expansion opportunity with our customers following their initial adoption of our software suite. Increasing International Revenue Our international revenue represented 17% of our total revenue in each of the y ears ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . 44 We started our international selling efforts in English-speaking common law countries, such as Canada, the United Kingdom and Australia, as we were able to leverage our core technologies in these jurisdictions since they have a similar approach to e-signature as the U.S. We have since made significant investments to be able to offer our solutions in select civil law countries. For example, in Europe, we have Standards-Based Signature technology tailored for eIDAS. In addition, to follow longstanding tradition in Japan, we enable signers to upload and apply their personal eHanko stamp to represent their signatures on an agreement. We plan to increase our international revenue by leveraging and continuing to expand the investments we have already made in our technology, direct sales force and strategic partnerships, as well as helping existing U.S.-based customers manage agreements across their international businesses. Additionally, we expect our strategic partnerships in key international markets, including our current relationships with SAP in Europe, to further grow. Investing for Growth We believe that our market opportunity is large, and we plan to invest to continue to support further growth. This includes expanding our sales headcount and increasing our marketing initiatives. We also plan to continue to invest in expanding the functionality of our software suite and underlying infrastructure and technology to meet the needs of our customers across industries. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive revenue primarily from subscriptions and, to a lesser extent, professional services. Subscription Revenue. Subscription revenue consists of fees for the use of our software suite and our technical infrastructure and access to customer support, which includes phone or email support. We typically invoice customers in advance on an annual basis. We recognized subscription revenue ratably over the term of the contract subscription period beginning on the date access to our software suite is provided, as long as all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. Professional Services and Other Revenue. Professional services revenue includes fees associated with new customers requesting deployment and integration services. We price professional services on a time and materials basis and on a fixed fee basis. We generally have standalone value for our professional services and recognize revenue based on standalone selling price as services are performed or upon completion of services for fixed fee contracts. Other revenue includes amounts derived from sales of on-premises solutions. Overhead Allocation We allocate shared costs, such as facilities (including rent, utilities and depreciation on equipment shared by all departments), information technology, information security costs and recruiting to all departments based on headcount. As such, allocated shared costs are reflected in each cost of revenue and operating expense category. Cost of Revenue Cost of Subscription Revenue. Cost of subscription revenue primarily consists of expenses related to hosting our software suite and providing support. These expenses consist of employee-related costs, including salaries, bonuses, benefits, stock-based compensation and other related costs, as well as personnel costs for employees associated with our technical infrastructure and customer support. These expenses also consist of software and maintenance costs, third-party hosting fees, outside services associated with the delivery of our subscription services, amortization expense associated with capitalized internal-use software and acquired intangible assets, credit card processing fees and allocated overhead. We expect our cost of revenue to continue to increase in absolute dollar amounts as we invest in our business. Cost of Professional Services and Other Revenue. Cost of professional services and other revenue consists primarily of personnel costs for our professional services delivery team, travel related costs and allocated overhead. 45 Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit is total revenue less total cost of revenue. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of total revenue. We expect that gross profit and gross margin will continue to be affected by various factors including our pricing, timing and amount of investment to maintain or expand our hosting capability, the growth of our software suite support and professional services team, stock-based compensation expenses, amortization of costs associated with capitalized internal use software and acquired intangible assets and allocated overhead. Operating Expenses Our operating expenses consist of selling and marketing, research and development and general and administrative expenses. Selling and Marketing Expense. Selling and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel costs, including sales commissions. These expenses also include expenditures related to advertising, marketing, promotional events and brand awareness activities, as well as allocated overhead. We expect selling and marketing expense to continue to increase in absolute dollars as we enhance our product offerings and implement marketing strategies. Research and Development Expense. Research and development expense consists primarily of personnel costs. These expenses also include non-personnel costs, such as subcontracting, consulting and professional fees for third-party development resources and depreciation costs, as well as allocated overhead. Our research and development efforts focus on maintaining and enhancing existing functionality and adding new functionality. We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars as we invest in the enhancement of our software suite. General and Administrative Expense. General and administrative expense consists primarily of employee-related costs for those employees associated with administrative services such as legal, human resources, information technology related to internal systems, accounting and finance. These expenses also include certain third-party consulting services, certain facilities costs and allocated overhead. We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars to support the overall growth of our operations. Interest Expense After issuance of our Notes in September 2018, interest expense consists primarily of contractual interest expense, amortization of discount and amortization of debt issuance costs on our Notes. Prior to the issuance of the Notes, interest expense consisted primarily of commitment fees and amortization of costs related to our loan facility. Interest income and other income, net Interest income and other income, net , consists primarily of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Our provision for (benefit from) income taxes consists primarily of income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions where we conduct business and state minimum taxes in the U.S., as well as certain tax benefits arising from acquisitions. We have a valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets, including U.S. net operating loss carryforwards. We expect to maintain this valuation allowance until it becomes more likely than not that the benefit of our U.S. deferred tax assets will be realized by way of expected future taxable income in the U.S. 46 Discussion of Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical consolidated statements of operations data: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Revenue: Subscription $ 663,657 $ 484,581 $ 348,563 Professional services and other 37,312 33,923 32,896 Total revenue 700,969 518,504 381,459 Cost of revenue: Subscription 117,764 83,834 73,363 Professional services and other 74,657 34,439 29,114 Total cost of revenue 192,421 118,273 102,477 Gross profit 508,548 400,231 278,982 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 539,606 277,930 240,787 Research and development 185,968 92,428 89,652 General and administrative 209,297 81,526 64,360 Total expenses 934,871 451,884 394,799 Loss from operations (426,323 ) (51,653 ) (115,817 ) Interest expense (10,844 ) (624 ) (611 ) Interest income and other income, net 8,959 3,135 1,372 Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (428,208 ) (49,142 ) (115,056 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (1,750 ) 3,134 356 Net loss $ (426,458 ) $ (52,276 ) $ (115,412 ) 47 The following table sets forth the components of our consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue: Year Ended January 31, 2019 2018 2017 Revenue: Subscription 95 % 93 % 91 % Professional services and other 5 7 9 Total revenue 100 100 100 Cost of revenue: Subscription 17 16 19 Professional services and other 10 7 8 Total cost of revenue 27 23 27 Gross profit 73 77 73 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 77 53 63 Research and development 27 18 23 General and administrative 30 16 17 Total expenses 134 87 103 Loss from operations (61 ) (10 ) (30 ) Interest expense (2 ) Interest income and other income, net 2 1 Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (61 ) (9 ) (30 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1 Net loss (61 )% (10 )% (30 )% The following discussion and analysis are for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to the same period in 2018 and the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to the same period in 2017 , unless otherwise stated. Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 % Change 2018 versus 2017 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 Revenue: Subscription $ 663,657 $ 484,581 $ 348,563 37 % 39 % Professional services and other 37,312 33,923 32,896 10 % 3 % Total revenue $ 700,969 $ 518,504 $ 381,459 35 % 36 % Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue increased $179.1 million , or 37% , in the year ended January 31, 2019 , and $136.0 million , or 39% , in the year ended January 31, 2018 . Subscription revenue was 95% , 93% and 91% of total revenue in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . The increase s in both periods were primarily attributable to increases in subscription sales to new and existing customers. The increase in the year ended January 31, 2019 also reflects the addition of SpringCM. We continue to invest in a variety of customer programs and initiatives, which, along with expanded customer use cases, have helped increase our subscription revenue over time. We expect subscription revenue to continue to increase as we offer new functionality, attract new customers and integrate SpringCM's capabilities into our offerings. 48 Professional Services and Other Revenue Professional services and other revenue increased by $3.4 million , or 10% , in the year ended January 31, 2019 , and by $1.0 million , or 3% , in the year ended January 31, 2018 primarily due to increased engagement of professional services to support our growing customer base. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 % Change 2018 versus 2017 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 117,764 $ 83,834 $ 73,363 40 % 14 % Professional services and other 74,657 34,439 29,114 117 % 18 % Total cost of revenue $ 192,421 $ 118,273 $ 102,477 63 % 15 % Gross margin: Subscription 82 % 83 % 79 % (1 )pts 4 pts Professional services and other (100 )% (2 )% 11 % (98 )pts (13 )pts Total gross margin 73 % 77 % 73 % (4 )pts 4 pts Cost of Subscription Revenue Cost of subscription revenue increased $33.9 million , or 40% in the year ended January 31, 2019 , primarily due to: An increase of $15.3 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily driven by the expense related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied on the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, for which no expense was recorded in the same prior year period, and the expense on RSUs granted with a service-based condition only ; An increase of $9.7 million in data center and other related operating costs to support our software suite and the impact of the acquisition of SpringCM; An increase of $5.3 million in personnel costs primarily driven by increases in headcount, the addition of SpringCM employees and the employer portion of payroll taxes related to RSU settlements with no such expense in the prior year ; and An increase of $2.5 million in allocated overhead primarily driven by higher allocated facility and IT expenses. Cost of subscription revenue increased $10.5 million , or 14% in the year ended January 31, 2018 , primarily due to: An increase of $7.6 million in data center and other related operating costs to support our software suite; and An increase of $2.0 million in personnel costs related to the hiring of employees to support customer service. Cost of Professional Services and Other Revenue Cost of professional service and other revenue increased $40.2 million , or 117% , in the year ended January 31, 2019 , primarily due to: An increase of $24.9 million in stock-based compensation primarily driven by the expense related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied on the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, for which no expense was recorded in the same prior year period, and the expense on RSUs granted with a service-based condition only ; An increase of $11.7 million in personnel costs primarily related to increased headcount in our professional services organization and the addition of SpringCM employees, as well as the employer portion of payroll taxes related to RSU settlements with no such expense in the prior year ; An increase of $1.5 million in allocated overhead primarily driven by higher facility expenses; and An increase of $0.8 million in travel costs due to increased headcount. Cost of professional service and other revenue increased $5.3 million , or 18% , in the year ended January 31, 2018 , primarily due to $5.0 million increase in personnel costs driven by increased headcount in our professional services organization. 49 Sales and Marketing Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 % Change 2018 versus 2017 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 Sales and marketing $ 539,606 $ 277,930 $ 240,787 94 % 15 % Percentage of revenue 77 % 53 % 63 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $261.7 million , or 94% , in the year ended January 31, 2019 , primarily due to: An increase of $162.7 million in stock-based compensation expense primarily driven by the expense related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied on the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, for which no expense was recorded in the same prior year period, and the expense on RSUs granted with a service-based condition only ; An increase of $58.3 million in personnel costs driven by increased headcount, the addition of SpringCM employees, the employer portion of payroll taxes related to RSU settlements with no such expense in the prior year , and higher commissions in line with higher sales; An increase of $14.5 million in marketing and advertising expense, primarily due to higher spend for online advertising campaigns; An increase of $10.4 million in allocated overhead due to increase in headcount and higher allocated IT and facility costs; An increase of $4.9 million in travel costs to support the increase in the personnel; An increase of $4.3 million in other expenses primarily due to higher spend on employee-related costs; An increase of $4.3 million in depreciation and amortization due to the amortization of the intangible assets acquired in the SpringCM acquisition on September 4, 2018; and An increase of $1.8 million in software and equipment due to increase sales tool licenses. Sales and marketing expenses increased $37.1 million , or 15% , in the year ended January 31, 2018 , primarily due to: An increase of $29.1 million in personnel costs driven by increased headcount and higher commissions in line with higher sales; An increase of $2.3 million in travel costs to support the increase in the personnel; An increase of $3.3 million increase in allocated overhead due to increased headcount and facility costs; and An increase of $1.5 million in consulting fees for market and other research activities. Research and Development Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 % Change 2018 versus 2017 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 Research and development $ 185,968 $ 92,428 $ 89,652 101 % 3 % Percentage of revenue 27 % 18 % 23 % Research and development expenses increased $93.5 million , or 101% , in the year ended January 31, 2019 , primarily due to: An increase of $69.2 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily driven by the expense related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied on the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, for which no expense was recorded in the same prior year period, and the expense on RSUs granted with a service-based condition only ; An increase of $14.0 million in personnel costs due to higher headcount, the addition of SpringCM employees and the employer portion of payroll taxes related to RSU settlements with no such expense in the prior year ; An increase of $4.6 million in allocated overhead due to increased allocated IT and facility costs; An increase of $1.7 million in other expenses primarily due to higher employee costs; An increase of $1.6 million in professional fees due to higher consulting spend; and An increase of $0.9 million in travel costs to support the increase in the personnel. Research and development expenses increased $2.8 million , or 3% , in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase of $8.9 million in personnel costs to support development efforts was partially offset by a $5.3 million decrease in stock-based compensation. In the year ended January 31, 2017, we incurred additional modification expense for certain employees whose employment ceased with no such expense in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The remainder of the decrease in stock-based compensation expense is driven by the impact of options that were canceled or fully vested in the year ended January 31, 2017 with no options granted to research and development employees in the year ended January 31, 2018 . 50 General and Administrative Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 % Change 2018 versus 2017 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 General and administrative $ 209,297 $ 81,526 $ 64,360 157 % 27 % Percentage of revenue 30 % 16 % 17 % General and administrative expenses increased $127.8 million , or 157% , in the year ended January 31, 2019 , primarily due to: An increase of $109.1 million in stock-based compensation expense, primarily driven by the expense related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied on the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, for which no expense was recorded in the same prior year period, and the expense on RSUs granted with a service-based condition only ; An increase of $10.0 million in professional fees, primarily driven by costs related to our IPO, secondary offering and preparation for operating as a public company, as well as higher audit and consulting costs; and An increase of $9.7 million in personnel costs primarily due to increased headcount and the employer portion of payroll taxes related to RSU settlements with no such expense in the prior year . General and administrative expenses increased $17.2 million , or 27% , in the year ended January 31, 2018 , primarily due to: An increase of $5.1 million increase in personnel cost and of $2.6 million in allocated overhead in line with the increase in headcount; An increase of $5.0 million in business taxes in connection with growth of the business, assessments completed in certain jurisdictions and a foreign transfer tax; and An increase of $2.2 million in stock-based compensation expense driven by a significant grant made at the end of fiscal 2017. Interest expense Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 % Change 2018 versus 2017 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 Interest expense $ (10,844 ) $ (624 ) $ (611 ) 1,638 % 2 % Percentage of revenue (2 )% % % Interest expense increased by $10.2 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 , due to interest expense and amortization of discount and transaction costs on our Notes issued in September 2018. Interest expense remained relatively consistent in the year ended January 31, 2018 . Interest Income and Other Income, Net Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 % Change 2018 versus 2017 % Change (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 Interest income and other income, net $ 8,959 $ 3,135 $ 1,372 186 % 128 % Percentage of revenue 2 % 1 % % In the year ended January 31, 2019 , interest income and other income, net, increased by $5.8 million primarily due to an $11.5 million increase in interest income on higher cash and cash equivalent balances during the period and on investments in marketable securities that commenced in the last quarter of fiscal 2019. This was partially offset by foreign currency losses of $3.4 million compared to foreign currency gains of $2.2 million in the prior year, a change of $5.6 million , driven by the impact of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar on transactions denominated in foreign currency. In the year ended January 31, 2018 , interest income and other income, net, increased by $1.8 million , primarily due to foreign currency transaction gains driven by remeasurement of certain monetary transactions. 51 Provision for (Benefit from) Income Taxes Year Ended January 31, (in thousands, except for percentages) 2019 2018 2017 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ (1,750 ) $ 3,134 $ 356 Percentage of revenue % 1 % % We had a tax benefit of $1.8 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to a provision for income taxes of $3.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . The change was primarily driven by a tax benefit of $7.1 million upon the release of a portion of our deferred tax valuation allowance in connection with the SpringCM acquisition. This tax benefit was partially offset by an increase in foreign tax expense, resulting from higher year-over-year earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions as we continue to scale our foreign operations to support our ongoing international growth. Tax expense in the year ended January 31, 2018 , increased by $2.8 million . This increase was due to an increase in foreign tax expense, resulting from transfers of intellectual property and higher year-over-year earnings in certain foreign jurisdictions as we continue to scale our international operations to support our ongoing international growth. Quarterly Results of Operations The following table sets forth our unaudited quarterly consolidated results of operations for each of the quarters indicated. These unaudited quarterly results of operations have been prepared on the same basis as our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the opinion of management, the financial information reflects all normal recurring adjustments necessary for the fair statement of results of operations for these periods. This information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The results of historical periods are not necessarily indicative of the results in any future period and the results of a particular quarter or other interim period are not necessarily indicative of the results for a full year. 52 Quarterly Consolidated Statements of Operations Three Months Ended (in thousands, except per share data) Jan 31, 2019 Oct 31, 2018 Jul 31, 2018 Apr 30, 2018 Jan 31, 2018 Oct 31, 2017 Jul 31, 2017 Apr 30, 2017 Revenue: Subscription $ 187,572 $ 169,426 $ 158,461 $ 148,198 $ 137,276 $ 122,905 $ 117,553 $ 106,847 Professional services and other 12,160 8,959 8,583 7,610 11,598 7,684 7,990 6,651 Total revenue 199,732 178,385 167,044 155,808 148,874 130,589 125,543 113,498 Cost of revenue: Subscription 33,560 28,709 23,057 32,438 22,166 22,335 20,040 19,293 Professional services and other 19,133 16,364 13,304 25,856 9,309 8,881 8,418 7,831 Total cost of revenue 52,693 45,073 36,361 58,294 31,475 31,216 28,458 27,124 Gross profit 147,039 133,312 130,683 97,514 117,399 99,373 97,085 86,374 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 127,691 117,051 103,779 191,085 74,630 69,666 68,943 64,691 Research and development 42,921 38,404 33,773 70,870 23,431 22,522 23,767 22,708 General and administrative 39,055 36,274 30,851 103,117 25,603 19,528 18,156 18,239 Total expenses 209,667 191,729 168,403 365,072 123,664 111,716 110,866 105,638 Loss from operations (62,628 ) (58,417 ) (37,720 ) (267,558 ) (6,265 ) (12,343 ) (13,781 ) (19,264 ) Interest expense (7,101 ) (3,503 ) (47 ) (193 ) (150 ) (154 ) (169 ) (151 ) Interest income and other income, net 4,794 3,395 2,998 (2,228 ) 2,436 (1,225 ) 2,034 (110 ) Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (64,935 ) (58,525 ) (34,769 ) (269,979 ) (3,979 ) (13,722 ) (11,916 ) (19,525 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 1,309 (5,712 ) 1,945 708 2,373 783 121 (143 ) Net loss $ (66,244 ) $ (52,813 ) $ (36,714 ) $ (270,687 ) $ (6,352 ) $ (14,505 ) $ (12,037 ) $ (19,382 ) Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted $ (0.40 ) $ (0.31 ) $ (0.22 ) $ (7.46 ) $ (0.20 ) $ (0.45 ) $ (0.39 ) $ (0.66 ) Stock-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses (1) : Cost of revenuesubscription $ 2,241 $ 2,398 $ 1,588 $ 9,955 $ 214 $ 228 $ 231 $ 238 Cost of revenueprofessional services 3,413 3,578 2,822 16,045 234 253 254 235 Sales and marketing 20,505 22,338 16,791 112,481 1,839 1,959 2,883 2,705 Research and development 9,562 9,919 7,359 47,268 1,175 1,042 1,288 1,391 General and administrative 13,550 13,515 11,605 84,045 2,772 3,113 3,856 3,837 (1) Three months ended April 30, 2018, includes $262.8 million of stock-based compensation expense related to RSUs, for which the performance-based condition was satisfied on April 26, 2018, the effective date of our IPO Registration Statement. 53 Percentage of Revenue Data Three Months Ended (in thousands, except per share data) Jan 31, 2019 Oct 31, 2018 Jul 31, 2018 Apr 30, 2018 Jan 31, 2018 Oct 31, 2017 Jul 31, 2017 Apr 30, 2017 Revenue: Subscription 94 % 95 % 95 % 95 % 92 % 94 % 94 % 94 % Professional services and other 6 5 5 5 8 6 6 6 Total revenue 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Cost of revenue: Subscription 17 16 14 21 15 17 16 17 Professional services and other 9 9 8 16 6 7 7 7 Total cost of revenue 26 25 22 37 21 24 23 24 Gross profit 74 75 78 63 79 76 77 76 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 64 66 62 123 50 53 55 57 Research and development 21 22 20 45 16 17 19 20 General and administrative 20 20 19 67 17 15 14 16 Total expenses 105 108 101 235 83 85 88 93 Loss from operations (31 ) (33 ) (23 ) (172 ) (4 ) (9 ) (11 ) (17 ) Interest expense (4 ) (2 ) Interest income and other income, net 2 2 2 (1 ) 1 (2 ) 2 Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes (33 ) (33 ) (21 ) (173 ) (3 ) (11 ) (9 ) (17 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (3 ) 1 1 1 1 Net loss (33 )% (30 )% (22 )% (174 )% (4 )% (11 )% (10 )% (17 )% Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity were cash and cash equivalents, investments and cash generated from operations. As of January 31, 2019 , we had $769.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. We also had $164.2 million in long-term investments that provide additional capital resources. In May 2018, we received net proceeds of $523.9 million upon the completion of our IPO. In September 2018, we received net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes of approximately $560.8 million after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and transaction costs. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures needs over at least the next 12 months. While we generated positive cash flows from operations of $76.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 , we have generated losses from operations in the past as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $928.8 million as of January 31, 2019 . We expect to continue to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future due to the investments we intend to make, and, as a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute strategic initiatives to grow our business. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance. Therefore, a substantial source of our cash is from such invoices, which are included on our consolidated balance sheets as accounts receivable until collection and contract liabilities. Our accounts receivable increased by $42.6 million , excluding accounts receivable acquired from SpringCM, compared to an increase of $28.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 , which resulted in a $14.5 million decrease in cash provided by operating activities. Accordingly, collections from our customers have a material impact on our cash flows from operating activities. Contract liabilities consists of the unearned portion of billed fees for our subscriptions, which is subsequently recognized as revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policy. As of January 31, 2019 , we had contract liabilities of $388.8 million , including contract liabilities acquired from SpringCM, compared to $277.9 million as of January 31, 2018 . The increase in contract liabilities resulted in net cash provided by operating activities of $100.9 million . Therefore, 54 our growth in billings to existing and new customers has a material net beneficial impact on our cash flows from operating activities, after consideration of the impact on our accounts receivable . Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, customer retention and expansion, the timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our software suite, the expansion of sales and marketing activities and the continuing market acceptance of our software suite. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, technologies and intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. On September 4, 2018 , we acquired SpringCM for $218.8 million in cash. The acquisition was funded with cash on hand. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we settled 12.6 million RSUs for which the service-based condition was satisfied on or prior to December 14, 2018 and 0.8 million PSUs for which the performance condition was satisfied in January 2019. In connection with these settlements, we withheld 5.3 million shares and remitted tax liabilities of $215.3 million on behalf of the RSUs holders to the relevant tax authorities in cash. We also used $14.4 million to pay the employer portion of payroll taxes on all RSUs and PSUs settled during the fourth quarter with no such expenditure in the prior period. Credit Facility In May 2015, we signed a Senior Secured Credit Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, or the Credit Agreement, and a syndicate of other banks. The Credit Agreement extended a revolving loan facility of up to $80.0 million with a letter of credit sub-facility up to $15.0 million (as a sublimit of the revolving loan facility) and a swingline sub-facility up to $5.0 million (as a sublimit of the revolving loan facility). Our obligations under the Credit Agreement were secured by substantially all our assets. The facility required us to comply with certain financial and non-financial covenants. The facility was subject to customary fees for loan facilities of this type, including ongoing commitment fees at a rate between 0.3% and 0.3375% per annum on the daily undrawn balance. The facility expired in May 2018. Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Year Ended January 31, 2019 versus 2018 $ Change 2018 versus 2017 $ Change (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 76,086 $ 54,979 $ (4,790 ) $ 21,107 $ 59,769 Investing activities (664,324 ) (18,761 ) (40,880 ) (645,563 ) 22,119 Financing activities 853,116 25,728 8,037 827,388 17,691 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (4,136 ) 4,246 (334 ) (8,382 ) 4,580 Net change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 260,742 $ 66,192 $ (37,967 ) $ 194,550 $ 104,159 Cash Flows from Operating Activities 2019 Compared to 2018 . Cash provided by operating activities increased by $21.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 . This change was primarily due to an increase of $407.4 million in non-cash expenses, partially offset by a $374.2 million increase in net loss. The increase in non-cash expenses was driven by a $381.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense primarily driven by the expense related to RSUs with a performance condition satisfied on the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, for which no expense was recorded in the same prior year period, and the expense on RSUs granted with a service-based condition only . Net cash provided by operating assets and liabilities decreased by $12.1 million . Additions to deferred contract acquisition and fulfillment increased by $27.9 million and cash used from changes in accounts receivable increased by $14.5 million in line with higher sales. Cash used from changes in accounts payable also increased by $10.2 million driven by the timing of payments. These were partially offset by increases in cash provided from changes in accrued compensation of $16.9 million 55 due to higher sales, addition of SpringCM, business growth and timing of payroll. Changes in contract liabilities and contract assets provided $13.1 million and $11.1 million in line with higher billings. 2018 Compared to 2017 . We had positive cash flows from operating activities of $55.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 as compared to negative cash flows of $4.8 million in the year ended January 31, 2017, an increase of $59.8 million. This change was primarily driven by a $63.1 million decrease in net loss, partially offset by a $6.1 million decrease in cash from changes in operating assets and liabilities. There were several significant positive and negative movements from changes in operating assets and liabilities over the period. Net cash from the change in deferred rent decreased by $15.1 million. We did not have any significant new leases in the year ended January 31, 2018, while the year ended January 31, 2017 reflects the buildup in the deferred rent balance related to several new Seattle leases we entered into at the end of fiscal 2016. Net cash from the change in deferred contract acquisition costs decreased by $14.6 million in line with growth in sales. Net cash from changes in contract liabilities and accounts receivable increased by $16.7 million as our business continued to grow. Net cash from changes in other liabilities increased by $7.4 million primarily due to delayed consideration related to our acquisition of Algorithmic Research Ltd. and foreign income tax provision. Cash Flows from Investing Activities 2019 Compared to 2018 . Cash used in investing activities increased by $645.6 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 . We used $415.1 million to purchase investments and $218.8 million to acquire SpringCM during the year ended January 31, 2019 . The remainder of the increase in cash used in investing activities related to $11.5 million increase in spend on purchases of property and equipment, in particular due to additional investments for our data centers and servers to support growth and leasehold improvements for our new office spaces. 2018 Compared to 2017 . Cash used in investing activities decreased by $22.1 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year. Our cash outflows were primarily driven by purchases of property and equipment, which decreased by $24.4 million as compared to the prior year. During the year ended January 31, 2017, we made significant investments in leasehold improvements and furniture for our new Seattle leases with no similar spend during the year ended January 31, 2018 . Cash Flows from Financing Activities 2019 Compared to 2018 . Cash provided by financing activities increased by $827.4 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 as compared to the same prior year period. We received proceeds, net of transaction costs, of $560.8 million from the Notes issuance and proceeds, net of underwriting discounts and commissions and $529.3 million from the issuance of common stock in our IPO during the year ended January 31, 2019 . We used $215.3 million to remit tax withholding obligations on RSUs settled during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 and $67.6 million to purchase capped calls in connection with the Notes issuance and $4.0 million for deferred offering costs related to our IPO. Proceeds from exercise of stock options increased by $23.8 million during the period compared to the prior year period. 2018 Compared to 2017 . Cash provided by financing activities increased by $17.7 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 as compared to the prior year. Proceeds from exercises of stock options contributed an additional $18.3 million compared to the prior year as more of our employees exercised their stock options. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table represents our future non-cancelable contractual obligations as of January 31, 2019 , aggregated by type: Payments Due by Period Total Less than 1 Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years More than 5 Years Convertible Senior Notes $ 575,000 $ $ $ 575,000 $ Interest payments 13,296 2,875 8,625 1,796 Operating lease commitments 148,551 22,198 45,173 46,546 34,634 Purchase obligations 18,848 5,722 6,731 1,841 4,554 Our principal contractual obligations and commitments consist of obligations under the Notes (including principal and coupon interest), operating leases, as well as noncancelable contractual commitments that primarily relate to cloud 56 infrastructure support and sales and marketing activities . Refer to Note 10 and Note 11 of the accompanying notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information on the Notes and for all other commitments. As of January 31, 2019 , we had unused letters of credit outstanding associated with our various operating leases totaling $9.8 million . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates W e prepare our financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Preparing these financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We evaluate our estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates are based on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Our actual results could differ from these estimates. The critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgments that we believe to have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements are revenue recognition, deferred contract acquisition costs, stock-based compensation, business combinations and valuation of goodwill and other acquired intangible assets and income taxes. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue from contracts with customers using the five-step method described in Note 2 in our consolidated financial statements. At contract inception we evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract and whether the combined or single contract includes more than one performance obligation. We combine contracts entered into at or near the same time with the same customer if we determine that the contracts are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective; the amount of consideration to be paid in one contract depends on the price or performance of the other contract; or the services promised in the contracts are a single performance obligation. Our performance obligations consist of (i) subscription services, (ii) professional and other services, (iii) on-premises solutions and (iv) maintenance and support for our on-premises solutions. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on their relative standalone selling price. We determine standalone selling price, or SSP, for all our performance obligations using observable inputs, such as standalone sales and historical contract pricing. SSP is consistent with our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration the type of subscription services and professional and other services. SSP also reflects the amount we would charge for that performance obligation if it were sold separately in a standalone sale and the price we would sell to similar customers in similar circumstances. In general, we satisfy the majority of our performance obligations over time as we transfer the promised services to our customers. For some of our services, such as delivery of on-premises solutions, we satisfy our performance obligations at a point in time. We review the contract terms and conditions to evaluate the timing and amount of revenue recognition; the related contract balances; and our remaining performance obligations. These evaluations require judgment that could affect the timing and amount of revenue recognized. Deferred Contract Acquisition Costs To determine the period of benefit of our deferred contract acquisition costs, we evaluate the type of costs incurred, the nature of the related benefit, and the specific facts and circumstances of our arrangements. We determine the period of benefit for commissions paid for the acquisition of the initial subscription contract by taking into consideration our initial estimated customer life and the technological life of our software suite and related significant features. We determine the period of benefit for commissions on renewal subscription contracts by considering the average contractual term for renewal contracts. We evaluate these assumptions on a quarterly basis and periodically review whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that could impact the period of benefit. 57 Stock-based Compensation Compensation cost for stock-based awards issued to employees, including stock options and RSUs, is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of RSUs is estimated on the date of grant based on the fair value of our underlying common stock. Prior to our IPO, the fair value of our common stock for financial reporting purposes was determined considering objective and subjective factors and required judgment to determine the fair value of common stock for financial reporting purposes as of the date of each equity grant or modification. Substantially all RSUs that we issued through January 31, 2018, vest upon the satisfaction of both service-based and performance-based vesting conditions. The service-based condition is typically satisfied over a four-year service period. The performance-based condition related to these awards was satisfied on the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, which occurred on April 26, 2018. Upon the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement, we recognized $262.8 million in stock-based compensation expense related to RSUs, for which the service-based condition was satisfied as of such date. The majority of RSUs granted after January 31, 2018 vest on the satisfaction of service-based condition only. From time-to-time, we grant RSUs that also include performance-based or market-based conditions. For RSUs granted with a performance condition, we recognize expense on a graded-vesting basis over the vesting period, after assessing the probability of achieving requisite performance criteria. For RSUs granted with a market condition, we use a lattice model simulation analysis which captures the impact of the vesting conditions to value the performance stock units and recognize the expense on a straight-line basis. We account for equity instruments issued to non-employees at fair value of the consideration received or fair value of the equity instrument issued, whichever is more reliably measurable. The measurement date of the fair value of the equity instrument issued is the earlier of the date on which the counterpartys performance is complete or the date on which it is probable that performance will occur. We calculate the fair value of options and purchase rights granted under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, based on the BlackScholes optionpricing model. The BlackScholes model requires the use of various assumptions including expected term and expected stock price volatility. We estimate the expected term for stock options using the simplified method due to the lack of historical exercise activity. The simplified method calculates the expected term as the midpoint between the vesting date and the contractual expiration date of the award. Almost all of our options have a contractual term of ten years. The expected term for the ESPP purchase rights is estimated using the offering period, which is typically six months. We estimate volatility for options and ESPP purchase rights using volatilities of a group of public companies in a similar industry, stage of life cycle, and size. The interest rate is derived from government bonds with a similar term to the option or ESPP purchase right granted. We have not declared, nor do we expect to declare dividends. Therefore, there is no dividend impact on the valuation of options or ESPP purchase rights. We use the straightline method for employee expense attribution for stock options and ESPP purchase rights. Compensation expense is recognized net of forfeitures that are estimated at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Business Combinations and Valuation of Goodwill and Other Acquired Intangible Assets We estimate the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. At the acquisition date, we measure goodwill as the excess of consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition date fair values of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. Business combination accounting requires us to make assumptions and apply judgment. Key assumptions include, but are not limited to: future cash flows from our revenue streams; the acquired company's existing customer relationships; royalty rates; and discount rates. These estimates and assumptions are subjective. Our ability to realize the future cash flows used in our fair value calculations may be affected by changes in our financial condition, our financial performance or business strategies. 58 Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. During the measurement period of up to one year from the acquisition date, based on new information obtained that relates to facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. We record adjustments identified, if any, subsequent to the end of the measurement period in our consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Other Long-Lived AssetsImpairment Assessments Our test for goodwill impairment starts with a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. If qualitative factors indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than its carrying amount, then a quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed. For the purposes of impairment testing, we have determined that we have one operating segment and one reporting unit. No impairment has been noted to date. We periodically review the carrying amounts of intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We measure the recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amount of such assets (or asset group) to the future undiscounted cash flow we expect the assets (or asset group) to generate. An impairment loss is recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying amount. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of intangible assets and other long-lived assets to assess whether a revision to the remaining periods of amortization is required. Assumptions and estimates about remaining useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as industry and economic trends and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy. Although we believe the historical assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results. We have not recognized any intangible asset impairment charges to date. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations in various jurisdictions may be subject to significant change, with or without notice, due to economic, political, and other conditions, and significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for these taxes. Our effective tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, such as changes in our business operations, acquisitions, investments, entry into new businesses and geographies, intercompany transactions, the relative amount of our foreign earnings, including earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, losses incurred in jurisdictions for which we are not able to realize related tax benefits, the applicability of special tax regimes, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in our stock price, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, changes in the laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions. In addition, a number of countries are actively pursuing changes to their tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, such as the Tax Act. Finally, foreign governments may enact tax laws in response to the Tax Act that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. As we expand internationally, we will face increased complexity in determining the appropriate tax jurisdictions for revenue and expense items, as a result, we may record unrecognized tax benefits in the future. At that time, we would make adjustments to these potential future reserves when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters would be different to the amounts we may potentially record in the future, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. The provision for income taxes would include the effects of any future accruals that we believe are appropriate to record, as well as the related net interest and penalties. 59 We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities, as well as for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rate that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. The Tax Act significantly changed how the U.S. taxes corporations. The Tax Act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required by U.S. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the Tax Act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the Tax Act will be applied or otherwise administered. As future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to amounts that we have previously recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. Loss contingencies We evaluate contingent liabilities including threatened or pending litigation in accordance with the authoritative guidance on contingencies. We assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes from potential claims or legal proceedings, as well as potential ranges of probable losses, when the outcomes of the claims or proceedings are probable and reasonably estimable. A determination of the amount of accrued liabilities required, if any, for these contingencies is made after the analysis of each separate matter. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, we base our estimates on the information available at the time of our assessment. As additional information becomes available, we reassess the potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation and may revise our estimates. Any revisions in the estimates of potential liabilities could have a material impact on our operating results and financial position. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this report. Emerging Growth Company Status In April 2012, the JOBS Act was enacted. Section 107 of the JOBS Act provides that an emerging growth company may take advantage of the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Therefore, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this extended transition period and, as a result, we will adopt new or revised accounting standards on the relevant dates on which adoption of such standards is required for other public companies. 60 Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Other Key Metrics To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we use certain non-GAAP financial measures, as described below, to understand and evaluate our core operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures, which may be different than similarly-titled measures used by other companies, are presented to enhance investors overall understanding of our financial performance and should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our financial performance, enhance the overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to important metrics used by our management for financial and operational decision-making. We are presenting these non-GAAP measures to assist investors in seeing our financial performance using a management view, and because we believe that these measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing our core financial performance over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP subscription gross profit, non-GAAP professional services and other gross profit, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP income (loss) from operations, non-GAAP operating margin and non-GAAP net income (loss) : We define these non-GAAP financial measures as the respective GAAP measures, excluding expenses related to stock-based compensation, employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions, amortization of acquisition-related intangibles, amortization of debt discount and issuance costs from our convertible senior notes issued in September 2018, acquisition-related expenses, partial releases of valuation allowance due to acquisition, and, as applicable, other special items. The amount of employer payroll tax-related items on employee stock transactions is dependent on our stock price and other factors that are beyond our control and do not correlate to the operation of the business. Costs associated with acquisitions include legal, accounting, other professional fees and other non-recurring costs. We believe it is useful to exclude these expenses in order to better understand the long-term performance of our core business and to facilitate comparison of our results to those of peer companies and over multiple periods. Free cash flows : We define free cash flow as net cash provided by (used in) operating activities less purchases of property and equipment. We believe free cash flow is an important liquidity measure of the cash (if any) that is available, after purchases of property and equipment, for operational expenses, investment in our business and to make acquisitions. Free cash flow is useful to investors as a liquidity measure because it measures our ability to generate or use cash in excess of our capital investments in property and equipment. Once our business needs and obligations are met, cash can be used to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in future growth. Billings : We define billings as total revenue plus the change in our contract liabilities and refund liability less contract assets and unbilled accounts receivable in a given period. Billings reflects sales to new customers plus subscription renewals and additional sales to existing customers. Only amounts invoiced to a customer in a given period are included in billings. We believe billings is a key metric to measure our periodic performance. Given that most of our customers pay in annual installments one year in advance, but we typically recognize a majority of the related revenue ratably over time, we use billings to measure and monitor our ability to provide our business with the working capital generated by upfront payments from our customers. 61 Reconciliation of gross profit and gross margin: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 GAAP gross profit $ 508,548 $ 400,231 $ 278,982 Add: Stock-based compensation 42,040 1,887 2,211 Add: Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 6,081 6,793 6,940 Add: Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 1,949 Add: Acquisition-related expenses 108 Non-GAAP gross profit $ 558,726 $ 408,911 $ 288,133 GAAP gross margin 73 % 77 % 73 % Non-GAAP adjustments 7 % 2 % 3 % Non-GAAP gross margin 80 % 79 % 76 % GAAP subscription gross profit $ 545,893 $ 400,747 $ 275,200 Add: Stock-based compensation 16,182 911 1,190 Add: Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 6,081 6,793 6,940 Add: Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 830 Non-GAAP subscription gross profit $ 568,986 $ 408,451 $ 283,330 GAAP subscription gross margin 82 % 83 % 79 % Non-GAAP adjustments 4 % 1 % 2 % Non-GAAP subscription gross margin 86 % 84 % 81 % GAAP professional services and other gross profit (loss) $ (37,345 ) $ (516 ) $ 3,782 Add: Stock-based compensation 25,858 976 1,021 Add: Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 1,119 Add: Acquisition-related expenses 108 Non-GAAP professional services and other gross profit (loss) $ (10,260 ) $ 460 $ 4,803 GAAP professional services and other gross margin (100 )% (2 )% 11 % Non-GAAP adjustments 73 % 3 % 4 % Non-GAAP professional services and other gross margin (27 )% 1 % 15 % Reconciliation of income (loss) from operations and operating margin: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 GAAP loss from operations $ (426,323 ) $ (51,653 ) $ (115,817 ) Add: Stock-based compensation 410,978 29,747 35,443 Add: Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 13,102 10,043 10,325 Add: Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 15,657 Add: Acquisition-related expenses 1,768 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 15,182 $ (11,863 ) $ (70,049 ) GAAP operating margin (61 )% (10 )% (30 )% Non-GAAP adjustments 63 % 8 % 12 % Non-GAAP operating margin 2 % (2 )% (18 )% 62 Reconciliation of net income (loss): Year Ended January 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 GAAP net loss $ (426,458 ) $ (52,276 ) $ (115,412 ) Add: Stock-based compensation 410,978 29,747 35,443 Add: Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles 13,102 10,043 10,325 Add: Employer payroll tax on employee stock transactions 15,657 Add: Acquisition-related expenses 1,839 Add: Amortization of debt discount and issuance costs 9,507 Less: Tax effect of the SpringCM acquisition (1) (7,080 ) Non-GAAP net income (loss) $ 17,545 $ (12,486 ) $ (69,644 ) (1) Represents a tax benefit related to the release of a portion of our deferred tax asset valuation allowance resulting from the SpringCM Acquisition. Computation of free cash flow: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 76,086 $ 54,979 $ (4,790 ) Less: purchase of property and equipment (30,413 ) (18,929 ) (43,330 ) Non-GAAP free cash flow $ 45,673 $ 36,050 $ (48,120 ) Computation of billings: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Revenue $ 700,969 $ 518,504 $ 381,459 Add: Contract liabilities and refund liability, end of period 390,887 282,943 195,501 Less: Contract liabilities and refund liability, beginning of period (282,943 ) (195,501 ) (137,031 ) Add: Contract assets and unbilled accounts receivable, beginning of period 16,899 10,095 2,532 Less: Contract assets and unbilled accounts receivable, end of period (13,436 ) (16,899 ) (10,095 ) Less: Contract liabilities and refund liability contributed by the acquisition of SpringCM (11,002 ) Non-GAAP billings $ 801,374 $ 599,142 $ 432,366 ITEM 7A. QUALITATIVE AND QUANTITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risks in the ordinary course of our business. Market risk represents the risk of loss that may impact our financial position due to adverse changes in financial market prices and rates. Our market risk exposure is primarily the result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange and interest rates. Interest Rate Risk As of January 31, 2019 , we had cash, cash equivalents and investments totaling $933.2 million , which consisted primarily of bank deposits, money market funds, commercial paper, and corporate notes and bonds. Interest-earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Our investment portfolio is comprised of highly rated securities and limits the amount of credit exposure to any one issuer. A hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates would result in a $3.7 million decline of the fair value of our investment portfolio as of January 31, 2019 . Such losses would only be realized if we sold the investments prior to maturity. We do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes and have not used any derivative financial instruments to manage our interest rate risk exposure. 63 On September 18, 2018, we offered and issued $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of Notes. The notes have fixed annual interest rate of 0.5% , and, therefore, we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the Notes. The fair value of the Notes changes when the market price of our stock fluctuates or interest rates change. However, we carry the Notes at face value less unamortized discount on our balance sheet and present the fair value for required disclosure purposes only. Foreign Currency Exchange Risk Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and the functional currency of each of our subsidiaries is either its local currency or the U.S. dollar, depending on the circumstances. The assets and liabilities of each of our subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect at each balance sheet date. Operations accounts are translated using the average exchange rate for the relevant period. Decreases in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to other currencies may negatively affect revenue and other operating results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Foreign currency translation adjustments are accounted for as a component of " Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income " within " Stockholders equity (deficit) ". Gains or losses due to transactions in foreign currencies are included in Interest and other income, net in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. We have not engaged in the hedging of foreign currency transactions to date, although we may choose to do so in the future. We do not believe that an immediate 10% increase or decrease in the relative value of the U.S. dollar to other currencies would have a material effect on operating results. 64 ITEM 8. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of DocuSign, Inc. Opinion on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of DocuSign, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the Company) as of January 31, 2019, and 2018, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, of redeemable convertible preferred stock and stockholders equity (deficit) and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2019, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the consolidated financial statements). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of January 31, 2019 and 2018, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2019, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Basis for Opinion These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Companys management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. We conducted our audits of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP San Jose, California March 26, 2019 We have served as the Company's auditor since 2009, which includes periods before the Company became subject to SEC reporting requirements. DOCUSIGN, INC. CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS January 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents $ 517,811 $ 256,867 Investments 251,203 Restricted cash 367 569 Accounts receivable 174,548 123,750 Contract assetscurrent 10,616 14,260 Prepaid expenses and other current assets 29,976 23,349 Total current assets 984,521 418,795 Investmentsnoncurrent 164,220 Property and equipment, net 75,832 63,019 Goodwill 195,225 37,306 Intangible assets, net 74,203 14,148 Deferred contract acquisition costsnoncurrent 112,583 75,535 Other assetsnoncurrent 8,833 11,170 Total assets $ 1,615,417 $ 619,973 Liabilities, Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock and Stockholders Equity (Deficit) Current liabilities Accounts payable $ 19,590 $ 23,713 Accrued expenses 21,755 15,734 Accrued compensation 77,553 50,852 Contract liabilitiescurrent 381,060 270,188 Deferred rentcurrent 2,452 1,758 Other liabilitiescurrent 13,903 11,574 Total current liabilities 516,313 373,819 Convertible senior notes, net 438,932 Contract liabilitiesnoncurrent 7,712 7,736 Deferred rentnoncurrent 24,195 23,044 Deferred tax liabilitynoncurrent 4,207 2,511 Other liabilitiesnoncurrent 9,696 4,010 Total liabilities 1,001,055 411,120 Commitments and contingencies (Note 11) Redeemable convertible preferred stock, $0.0001 par value; 0 shares authorized, issued and outstanding as of January 31, 2019; 100,603 shares authorized, 100,226 shares issued and outstanding, $548,910 liquidation preference as of January 31, 2018 547,501 Stockholders equity (deficit) Preferred stock, $0.0001 par value; 10,000 shares authorized, 0 shares issued and outstanding as of January 31, 2019; 0 shares authorized, issued and outstanding as of January 31, 2018 Common stock, $0.0001 par value; 500,000 shares authorized, 169,303 shares outstanding as of January 31, 2019; 185,000 shares authorized, 35,700 shares outstanding as of January 31, 2018 17 4 Additional paid-in capital 1,545,088 160,265 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income ( 1,965 ) 3,403 Accumulated deficit ( 928,778 ) ( 502,320 ) Total stockholders equity (deficit) 614,362 ( 338,648 ) Total liabilities, redeemable convertible preferred stock, and stockholders equity (deficit) $ 1,615,417 $ 619,973 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. DOCUSIGN, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE LOSS Year Ended January 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 Revenue: Subscription $ 663,657 $ 484,581 $ 348,563 Professional services and other 37,312 33,923 32,896 Total revenue 700,969 518,504 381,459 Cost of revenue: Subscription 117,764 83,834 73,363 Professional services and other 74,657 34,439 29,114 Total cost of revenue 192,421 118,273 102,477 Gross profit 508,548 400,231 278,982 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 539,606 277,930 240,787 Research and development 185,968 92,428 89,652 General and administrative 209,297 81,526 64,360 Total expenses 934,871 451,884 394,799 Loss from operations ( 426,323 ) ( 51,653 ) ( 115,817 ) Interest expense ( 10,844 ) ( 624 ) ( 611 ) Interest income and other income, net 8,959 3,135 1,372 Loss before provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( 428,208 ) ( 49,142 ) ( 115,056 ) Provision for (benefit from) income taxes ( 1,750 ) 3,134 356 Net loss $ ( 426,458 ) $ ( 52,276 ) $ ( 115,412 ) Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted $ ( 3.16 ) $ ( 1.66 ) $ ( 4.17 ) Weighted-average number of shares used in computing net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted 135,163 32,294 28,020 Other comprehensive income (loss): Foreign currency translation (losses) gains, net of tax $ ( 5,626 ) $ 6,149 $ 651 Unrealized gains on investments, net of tax 258 Other comprehensive (loss) income ( 5,368 ) 6,149 651 Comprehensive loss $ ( 431,826 ) $ ( 46,127 ) $ ( 114,761 ) Stock-based compensation expense included in costs and expenses: Cost of revenuesubscription $ 16,182 $ 911 $ 1,190 Cost of revenueprofessional services 25,858 976 1,021 Sales and marketing 172,115 9,386 11,187 Research and development 74,108 4,896 10,161 General and administrative 122,715 13,578 11,884 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 67 DOCUSIGN, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (DEFICIT) Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock Common Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (Income) Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders Equity (Deficit) (in thousands) Shares Amount Shares Amount Balances at January 31, 2016 100,226 $ 544,584 27,435 $ 3 $ 61,881 $ ( 3,397 ) $ ( 334,632 ) $ ( 276,145 ) Exercise of stock options 2,044 8,122 8,122 Repurchase of shares from employees ( 40 ) ( 85 ) ( 85 ) Employee stock-based compensation expense 34,310 34,310 Non-employee stock-based compensation expense 1,276 1,276 Accretion of preferred stock 1,456 ( 1,456 ) ( 1,456 ) Vesting of early exercise liability 1,384 1,384 Net loss ( 115,412 ) ( 115,412 ) Other comprehensive income, net 651 651 Balances at January 31, 2017 100,226 546,040 29,439 3 105,432 ( 2,746 ) ( 450,044 ) ( 347,355 ) Exercise of stock options 6,261 1 26,432 26,433 Employee stock-based compensation expense 28,496 28,496 Non-employee stock-based compensation expense 1,366 1,366 Accretion of preferred stock 1,461 ( 1,461 ) ( 1,461 ) Net loss ( 52,276 ) ( 52,276 ) Other comprehensive income, net 6,149 6,149 Balances at January 31, 2018 100,226 547,501 35,700 $ 4 $ 160,265 $ 3,403 $ ( 502,320 ) $ ( 338,648 ) 68 DOCUSIGN, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF REDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY (DEFICIT) (Continued) Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock Common Stock Additional Paid-In Capital Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss (Income) Accumulated Deficit Total Stockholders Equity (Deficit) (in thousands) Shares Amount Shares Amount Balances at January 31, 2018 100,226 $ 547,501 35,700 $ 4 $ 160,265 $ 3,403 $ ( 502,320 ) $ ( 338,648 ) Exercise of stock options 5,791 50,211 50,211 Settlement of RSUs 8,126 1 ( 1 ) Tax withholding on RSU settlement ( 215,332 ) ( 215,332 ) Employee stock-based compensation expense 411,803 411,803 Non-employee stock-based compensation expense 1,058 1,058 Accretion of preferred stock 353 ( 353 ) ( 353 ) Issuance of common stock in connection with initial public offering, net of offering costs 19,314 2 524,977 524,979 Conversion of redeemable convertible preferred stock to common stock in connection with initial public offering ( 100,226 ) ( 547,854 ) 100,350 10 547,844 547,854 Conversion of preferred stock warrant to common stock warrant in connection with initial public offering 848 848 Equity component of Convertible Senior Notes 131,331 131,331 Purchase of capped calls related to issuance of Convertible Senior Notes ( 67,563 ) ( 67,563 ) Exercise of common stock warrants 22 Net loss ( 426,458 ) ( 426,458 ) Other comprehensive loss, net ( 5,368 ) ( 5,368 ) Balances at January 31, 2019 $ 169,303 $ 17 $ 1,545,088 $ ( 1,965 ) $ ( 928,778 ) $ 614,362 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 69 DOCUSIGN, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Cash flows from operating activities: Net loss $ ( 426,458 ) $ ( 52,276 ) $ ( 115,412 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities Depreciation and amortization 38,027 31,750 28,471 Amortization of deferred contract acquisition and fulfillment costs 42,112 30,377 22,369 Amortization of debt discount and transaction costs 9,507 Stock-based compensation expense 410,978 29,747 35,443 Deferred income taxes ( 5,001 ) ( 996 ) 12 Other 800 ( 1,877 ) ( 1,767 ) Changes in operating assets and liabilities Accounts receivable ( 42,571 ) ( 28,077 ) ( 17,454 ) Contract assets 4,204 ( 6,934 ) ( 7,111 ) Prepaid expenses and other current assets ( 3,283 ) ( 1,507 ) 1,630 Deferred contract acquisition and fulfillment costs ( 80,869 ) ( 52,978 ) ( 34,761 ) Other assets 2,658 ( 1,604 ) 238 Accounts payable ( 7,380 ) 2,864 4,890 Accrued expenses 4,214 5,992 ( 2,596 ) Accrued compensation 26,039 9,168 9,532 Contract liabilities 100,874 87,774 60,440 Deferred rent 1,845 ( 168 ) 14,979 Other liabilities 390 3,724 ( 3,693 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 76,086 54,979 ( 4,790 ) Cash flows from investing activities: Cash paid for acquisition, net of acquired cash ( 218,779 ) ( 299 ) Purchases of investments ( 415,132 ) Proceeds from sale of short-term investments 1,785 Purchases of property and equipment ( 30,413 ) ( 18,929 ) ( 43,330 ) Proceeds from sale of business held for sale 467 665 Net cash used in investing activities ( 664,324 ) ( 18,761 ) ( 40,880 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Proceeds from issuance of convertible senior notes, net of initial purchasers' discounts and transaction costs 560,756 Purchase of capped calls related to issuance of convertible senior notes ( 67,563 ) Proceeds from issuance of common stock in initial public offering, net of underwriting commissions 529,305 Payment of tax withholding obligation on RSU settlement ( 215,332 ) Proceeds from the exercise of stock options 50,211 26,433 8,122 Payment of deferred offering costs ( 4,011 ) ( 315 ) Other financing ( 250 ) ( 390 ) ( 85 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 853,116 25,728 8,037 Effect of foreign exchange on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash ( 4,136 ) 4,246 ( 334 ) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 260,742 66,192 ( 37,967 ) Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at beginning of period 257,436 191,244 229,211 Cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash at end of period $ 518,178 $ 257,436 $ 191,244 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 70 DOCUSIGN, INC. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Continued) Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Supplemental disclosure: Cash paid for interest $ 204 $ 599 $ 602 Cash paid for taxes 3,213 617 229 Non-cash investing and financing activities: Property and equipment in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities $ 2,293 $ 3,967 $ 3,325 Conversion of redeemable convertible preferred stock to common stock in connection with initial public offering 547,854 Conversion of preferred stock warrant to common stock warrant in connection with initial public offering 848 Preferred stock accretion 353 1,461 1,456 Vesting of early exercised stock options 1,384 Deferred offering costs accrued and unpaid 1,381 Estimated fair value of office under build-to-suit lease 2,479 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 71 DOCUSIGN, INC. Index for Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Note 1 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 73 Note 2 Revenue and Performance Obligations 83 Note 3 Fair Value Measurements 83 Note 4 Property and Equipment, Net 85 Note 5 Acquisition of SpringCM Inc. 85 Note 6 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net 87 Note 7 Balance Sheet Components 88 Note 8 Contract Balances 88 Note 9 Deferred Contract Acquisition and Fulfillment Costs 89 Note 10 Convertible Senior Notes 89 Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies 91 Note 12 Stockholders' Equity 93 Note 13 Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders 97 Note 14 Employee Benefit Plan 97 Note 15 Income Taxes 97 Note 16 Geographic Information 101 72 DOCUSIGN, INC. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1 . Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Organization and Description of Business DocuSign, Inc. (we, our or us) was incorporated in the State of Washington in April 2003. We merged with and into DocuSign, Inc., a Delaware corporation, in March 2015. We provide a platform that enables businesses of all sizes to digitally prepare, execute and act on agreements, thereby simplifying and accelerating the process of doing business. Basis of Presentation and Principles of Consolidation Our consolidated financial statements include those of DocuSign, Inc. and our subsidiaries, after elimination of all intercompany accounts and transactions. We have prepared the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (U.S. GAAP). Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2019 , for example, are to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 . Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current year presentation. These amounts were not material to any of the periods presented. Initial Public Offering On May 1, 2018, we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, in which we issued and sold 19.3 million shares of common stock at price to the public of $ 29.00 per share, including 3.3 million shares of common stock purchased by the underwriters in the full exercise of the over-allotment option granted to them. Certain of our existing stockholders sold an additional 5.6 million shares at the public offering price. We received net proceeds of $ 523.9 million after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $ 30.8 million and offering expenses of $ 5.4 million . We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by our stockholders. Upon the completion of our IPO, all 100.2 million shares of our convertible preferred stock automatically converted into an aggregate of 100.4 million shares of our common stock; all our outstanding warrants to purchase shares of convertible preferred stock converted into warrants to purchase 22,468 shares of common stock with the related warrant liability of $ 0.8 million reclassified into additional paid-in capital; and our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation was filed and went in effect authorizing a total of 500.0 million shares of common stock and 10.0 million shares of preferred stock. Follow-On Offering On September 18, 2018, we completed our follow-on offering, in which certain stockholders sold 8.1 million shares of common stock. The price per share to the public was $ 55.00 . We did not receive any proceeds from the sale of shares by the selling stockholders. We incurred and expensed issuance costs of $ 1.3 million associated with the sale of such shares. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant items subject to such estimates and assumptions include those related to the allocation of revenue between recognized and deferred amounts, allowance for bad debts, goodwill, intangible assets, deferred contract acquisition costs, customer benefit period, fair value of financial instruments, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of common stock, f air value of the liability and equity components of the convertible notes, valuation of the build-to-suit lease, and the valuation allowance for deferred income taxes. 73 Concentration of Credit Risk Our financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and accounts receivable. Although we deposit our cash with multiple financial institutions, the deposits, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. We have not experienced any losses on our deposits of cash and cash equivalents. Cash equivalents consist of money market funds which are invested through financial institutions in the U.S. Management believes that the institutions are financially stable and, accordingly, minimal credit risk exists. No customer individually accounted for more than 10% of our revenues in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . One of our customers accounted for 10 % of our accounts receivable as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 . We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers, do not require collateral and maintain allowances for potential credit losses on customers accounts when deemed necessary. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when a customer obtains control of promised services. The amount of revenue recognized reflects the consideration that we expect to be entitled to receive in exchange for these services. To achieve the core principle of this new standard, we apply the following steps: 1. Identification of the contract, or contracts, with the customer We consider the terms and conditions of the contract and our customary business practices in identifying our contracts under ASC 606. We determine we have a contract with a customer when the contract is approved, we can identify each partys rights regarding the services to be transferred, we can identify the payment terms for the services, we have determined the customer has the ability and intent to pay and the contract has commercial substance. At contract inception we evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract and whether the combined or single contract includes more than one performance obligation. We apply judgment in determining the customers ability and intent to pay, which is based on a variety of factors, including the customers historical payment experience or, in the case of a new customer, credit and financial information pertaining to the customer. 2. Identification of the performance obligations in the contract Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the services and the products that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, whereby the customer can benefit from the service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available from third parties or from us, and are distinct in the context of the contract, whereby the transfer of the services and the products is separately identifiable from other promises in the contract. Our performance obligations consist of (i) subscription services, (ii) professional services, (iii) on-premises solutions, and (iv) maintenance and support for on-premises solutions. 3. Determination of the transaction price The transaction price is determined based on the consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring services to the customer. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price if, in our judgment, it is probable that a significant future reversal of cumulative revenue under the contract will not occur. None of our contracts contain a significant financing component. 4. Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligation in the contract If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation. Contracts that contain multiple performance obligations require an allocation of the transaction price to each performance obligation based on a relative standalone selling price (SSP). 5. Recognition of the revenue when, or as, we satisfy a performance obligation Revenue is recognized at the time the related performance obligation is satisfied by transferring the control of the promised service to a customer. Revenue is recognized as control of the service is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those services. We generate all our revenue from contracts with customers. 74 Subscription Revenue We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to access our software suite and related subscriptions of our customers. Our subscription revenue is driven by our go-to-market model, which includes a combination of direct sales, partner-assisted sales and web-based self-service purchasing. Subscription arrangements with customers do not provide the customer with the right to take possession of our software operating our software suite at any time. Instead, customers are granted continuous access to our software suite over the contractual period. A time-elapsed method is used to measure progress because we transfer control evenly over the contractual period. Accordingly, the fixed consideration related to subscription revenue is generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term beginning on the date access to our software suite is provided, as long as other revenue recognition criteria have been met. The typical subscription term is one to three years. Most of our contracts are non-cancelable over the contractual term. Customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause if we fail to perform in accordance with the contractual terms. Some of our customers have the option to purchase additional subscription services at a stated price. These options are evaluated on a case-by-case basis but generally do not provide a material right as they are priced at or above our SSP and, as such, would not result in a separate performance obligation. Professional Services and Other Revenue Professional services and other revenue consists of fees associated with consulting and training services from assisting customers in implementing and expanding the use of our software suite. These services are distinct from subscription services. Professional services do not result in significant customization of the subscription service. Revenue from professional services provided on a time and materials basis is recognized as the services are performed. Other revenue includes amounts derived from the sale of our on-premises solutions, which are recognized upon passage of control, which occurs upon shipment of the product. The maintenance and support on the on-premises solutions is a stand-ready obligation to perform this service over the term of the arrangement and, as a result, is accounted for ratably over the term of the arrangement. Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations Most of our contracts with customers contain multiple performance obligations that are distinct and accounted for separately. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative SSP basis. We determine SSP for all our performance obligations using observable inputs, such as standalone sales and historical contract pricing. SSP is consistent with our overall pricing objectives, taking into consideration the type of subscription services and professional and other services. SSP also reflects the amount we would charge for that performance obligation if it were sold separately in a standalone sale, and the price we would sell to similar customers in similar circumstances. Variable Consideration Revenue from sales is recorded at the net sales price, which is the transaction price, and includes estimates of variable consideration. The amount of variable consideration that is included in the transaction price is constrained and is included in the net sales price only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of the cumulative revenue will not occur when the uncertainty is resolved. If our services do not meet certain service level commitments, our customers are entitled to receive service credits, and in certain cases, refunds, each representing a form of variable consideration. We have historically not experienced any significant incidents affecting the defined levels of reliability and performance as required by our subscription contracts. Accordingly, the amount of any estimated refunds related to these agreements in the consolidated financial statements is not material during the periods presented. Deferred Contract Acquisition Costs We capitalize sales commissions, certain parts of the company bonus and associated payroll taxes paid to internal sales personnel that are incremental to the acquisition of customer contracts. These costs are recorded as deferred contract acquisition costs on the consolidated balance sheets. We determine whether costs should be deferred based on our sales compensation plans, if the commissions are in fact incremental and would not have occurred absent the customer contract. Sales commissions for renewal of a subscription contract are not considered commensurate with the commissions paid for the acquisition of the initial subscription contract given the substantive difference in commission rates between new and renewal 75 contracts. Commissions paid upon the initial acquisition of a contract are amortized over an estimated period of benefit of five years while commissions paid related to renewal contracts are amortized over an estimated period of benefit of two years. Amortization is recognized on a straight-line basis commensurate with the pattern of revenue recognition. Commissions paid on professional services are typically amortized in accordance with the associated revenue as the commissions paid on new and renewal professional services are commensurate with each other. We determine the period of benefit for commissions paid for the acquisition of the initial subscription contract by taking into consideration our initial estimated customer life and the technological life of our software suite and related significant features. We determine the period of benefit for renewal subscription contracts by considering the average contractual term for renewal contracts. Amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs is primarily included in the Sales and marketing expense in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. We periodically review these deferred costs to determine whether events or changes in circumstances have occurred that could impact the period of benefit of these deferred contract acquisition costs. There were no material impairment losses recorded during the periods presented. Deferred Contract Fulfillment Costs We capitalize third-party costs to fulfill contracts with a customer in Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other assetsnoncurrent on our consolidated balance sheets. We amortize these costs consistent with the ratable revenue recognition of the performance obligations in the associated contracts. We assess these costs for impairment at the end of each reporting period. Cost of Revenue Subscription cost of revenue primarily consists of personnel and related costs to support our software suite, amortization expense associated with capitalized internally developed software and intangible assets, property and equipment depreciation, allocated overhead expenses, merchant processing fees and server hosting costs. Professional services and other cost of revenue consists primarily of personnel costs for our professional services delivery team, travel-related costs and allocated overhead. Advertising Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and are included in Sales and marketing expense in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Advertising expense was $ 34.1 million , $ 19.3 million and $ 23.6 million in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . Research and Development Research and development costs are expensed as incurred and consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, bonuses and benefits, and stock-based compensation. They also include amortization associated with acquired intangible assets and allocated overhead. Stock-Based Compensation Compensation cost for stock-based awards issued to employees, including stock options and restricted stock units, or RSUs, is measured at fair value on the date of grant and recognized over the service period. The fair value of stock options is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model. The fair value of RSUs is estimated on the date of grant based on the fair value of our underlying common stock. We recognize compensation expense for stock options on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Compensation expense for RSUs granted prior to January 31, 2018, is amortized on a graded basis over the requisite service period as long as the performance condition in the form of a specified liquidity event is probable to occur. The liquidity event condition was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our registration statement on Form S-1, or IPO Registration Statement, on April 26, 2018. On that date we recorded a cumulative stock-based compensation expense of $ 262.8 million using the accelerated attribution method for all the RSUs, for which the service condition has been fully satisfied as of April 26, 2018. The remaining unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to the RSUs will be recorded over their remaining requisite service periods. RSUs granted after January 31, 2018, generally vest on the satisfaction of service-based condition only. We recognize compensation expense for such RSUs on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. 76 From time-to-time, we grant RSUs that also include performance-based or market-based conditions. For RSUs granted with a performance condition, we recognize expense on a graded vesting basis over the vesting period, after assessing the probability of achieving requisite performance criteria. For RSUs granted with a market condition, we use a lattice model simulation analysis which captures the impact of the vesting conditions to value the performance stock units and recognize the expense on a graded basis. We recognize compensation expense related to shares issued pursuant to the employee stock purchase plan (ESPP) on a straight-line basis over the offering period. Compensation expense is recognized net of forfeitures that are estimated at the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. In the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , total stock-based compensation expense was $ 411.0 million , $ 29.7 million and $ 35.4 million . Recognized tax benefits on total stock-based compensation expense, which are reflected in the "provision for income taxes" in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, were $ 1.7 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 and immaterial in the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 . We account for equity instruments issued to non-employees at fair value of the consideration received or fair value of the equity instrument issued, whichever is more reliably measurable. The measurement date of the fair value of the equity instrument issued is the earlier of the date on which the counterpartys performance is complete or the date on which it is probable that performance will occur. Compensation expense related to stock-based awards issued to non-employees was $ 1.1 million , $ 1.4 million and $ 1.3 million in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . We capitalize stock-based compensation costs incurred as a result of qualifying internally-developed software development activities. Capitalized stock-based compensation was $ 1.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 and $ 0.1 million in each of the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 . We may elect to issue shares on the settlement dates net of the minimum statutory tax withholding requirements to be paid by us on behalf of our employees. In these instances, we record the liability for withholding amounts to be paid by us as a reduction to additional paid-in capital when paid, and include these payments as a reduction of cash flows from financing activities. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. These foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than the U.S. We record a provision for income taxes for the anticipated tax consequences of the reported results of operations using the asset and liability method. Under this method, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax basis of assets and liabilities, as well as for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the tax rates that are expected to apply to taxable income for the years in which those tax assets and liabilities are expected to be realized or settled. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the net amount that we believe is more likely than not to be realized. We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if we believe that it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities based on the technical merits of the position. As we expand internationally, we will face increased complexity in determining the appropriate tax jurisdictions for revenue and expense items. As a result, we may record unrecognized tax benefits in the future. Our policy is to adjust these reserves when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences will affect the provision for income taxes in the period in which such determination is made and could have a material impact on our financial condition and operating results. The provision for income taxes includes the effects of any accruals that we believe are appropriate, as well as the related net interest and penalties. We intend to indefinitely reinvest any undistributed and future earnings from our foreign operations outside of the U.S. As of January 31, 2019 , and 2018 , no provision for applicable income taxes has been provided thereon. Upon distribution of those earnings, we would be subject to withholding taxes payable to various foreign countries. As of January 31, 2019 , any foreign withholding taxes potentially payable on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were immaterial. 77 Foreign Currency The functional currency of our foreign entities is generally the local currency. The functional currency of our branches is the U.S. dollar. For branches where the U.S. dollar is the functional currency, foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities are re-measured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates and foreign currency denominated nonmonetary assets and liabilities are re-measured into U.S. dollars at historical exchange rates. We recognize gains and losses from transaction adjustments within " Interest income and other income, net " in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss in the period of occurrence. We recorded a foreign currency transaction loss of $ 3.4 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 and a foreign currency transaction gain of $ 2.2 million and $ 2.0 million in the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 . We present our financial statements in U.S. dollars. Adjustments resulting from translating foreign functional currency financial statements into U.S. dollars are recorded as a separate component on our consolidated statements of comprehensive loss, net of tax. All assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Revenues and expenses are translated at the average exchange rate during the period. Equity transactions are translated using the historical exchange rate. Net Loss Per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders In periods when we have net income, we compute basic and diluted net loss per share in conformity with the two-class method required for participating securities. The undistributed earnings are allocated between common stock and participating securities as if all earnings had been distributed during the period presented. We consider all series of convertible preferred stock to be participating securities as the holders of such stock are entitled to receive noncumulative dividends on a pari passu basis in the event that a dividend is paid on common stock. We also consider any shares issued on the early exercise of stock options subject to repurchase to be participating securities because holders of such shares have non-forfeitable dividend rights in the event a dividend is paid on common stock. The holders of convertible preferred stock and early exercised shares do not have a contractual obligation to share in our losses. As such, our net losses in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 were not allocated to these participating securities. Basic net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by dividing the net loss attributable to common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is computed by giving effect to all potential shares of common stock, including common stock underlying our convertible preferred stock, our warrants to purchase common stock, and convertible preferred stock, early exercised stock options and outstanding stock options, to the extent they are dilutive. Since we have reported net losses for all periods presented, diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders is the same as basic net loss per share attributable to common stockholders. Dilutive common shares are not assumed to have been issued as their effect would have been antidilutive. Cash and Cash Equivalents We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Investments Investments consist of money market funds, commercial paper, corporate notes and bonds, as well as U.S. treasury and government agency securities. Management determines the appropriate classification of investments at the time of purchase and reevaluates such determination at each balance sheet date. Investments with original maturities of more than three months are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet, with all unrealized gains and losses reflected in Other comprehensive income (loss) on the consolidated balance sheets. These securities are classified as short-term or long-term based on their remaining contractual maturities. We evaluate our investments to assess whether those with unrealized loss positions are other than temporarily impaired. We consider impairments to be other than temporary if they are related to deterioration in credit risk or if it is likely we will sell the securities before the recovery of their cost basis. Realized gains and losses and declines in value judged to be other than temporary are determined based on the specific identification method and are reported in "interest income and other income, net" in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. 78 Restricted Cash Restricted cash primarily consists of a money market account and certificates of deposits collateralizing our operating lease agreements for office space. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We measure assets and liabilities at fair value based on an expected exit price, which represents the amount that would be received on the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. As such, fair value may be based on assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The authoritative guidance on fair value measurements establishes a consistent framework for measuring fair value on either a recurring or nonrecurring basis whereby inputs, used in valuation techniques, are assigned a hierarchical level. The following are the hierarchical levels of inputs to measure fair value: Level 1 Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 Inputs reflect quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities; or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means. Level 3 Unobservable inputs reflecting our own assumptions incorporated in valuation techniques used to determine fair value. These assumptions are required to be consistent with market participant assumptions that are reasonably available Assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the placement of assets and liabilities being measured within the fair value hierarchy. The carrying values of our financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable approximate their respective fair values due to the short period of time to maturity, receipt or payment. Accounts Receivable, Unbilled Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts Accounts receivable primarily consist of amounts billed currently due from customers. Our accounts receivable are subject to collection risk. Gross accounts receivable are reduced for this risk by an allowance for doubtful accounts. This allowance is for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. It is an estimate and is regularly evaluated for adequacy by taking into consideration a combination of factors. To determine whether a provision for doubtful accounts should be recorded, we look at such factors as past collection experience, credit quality of the customer, age of the receivable balance, and current economic conditions. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $ 0.6 million and $ 0.3 million as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 . We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to our customers. Unbilled accounts receivable represent amounts for which we have recognized revenue, pursuant to our revenue recognition policy, for professional services already performed, but billed in arrears. The unbilled accounts receivable balance was $ 1.5 million and $ 0.8 million as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 . We do not typically offer right of refund in our contracts. The allowance for doubtful accounts reflects our best estimate of probable losses inherent in our receivables portfolio determined on the basis of historical experience, specific allowances for known troubled accounts and other currently available evidence. We have not experienced significant credit losses from our accounts receivable. We perform a regular review of our customers payment histories and associated credit risks and do not require collateral from our customers. Changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts were not material in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . Property and Equipment Property and equipment, including costs incurred to bring to the location and condition necessary for intended use, are recorded at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method and the following estimated useful lives: 79 Estimated Useful Life Computer and network equipment 2-3 years Software, including capitalized software development costs 3 years Furniture and office equipment 3-4 years Leasehold improvements Lesser of lease term and 10 years Disposals are removed at cost less accumulated depreciation, and any gain or loss from disposition is reflected in the statement of operations in the year of disposition. Additions and improvements that increase the value or extend the life of an asset are capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. We are deemed to be the owner, for accounting purposes, during the construction phase of certain long-lived assets under a build-to-suit lease arrangement because of our involvement with the construction, our exposure to any potential cost overruns or our other commitments under the arrangements. In these cases, we recognize build-to-suit lease assets under construction and corresponding build-to-suit lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheets. Once construction is completed, if a lease meets certain sale-leaseback criteria, we remove the asset and liability and account for the lease as an operating lease. Otherwise, the lease is accounted for as a capital lease. Goodwill Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting and is not amortized. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter of each year, or as events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Our test for goodwill impairment starts with a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform the quantitative goodwill impairment test. If qualitative factors indicate that the fair value of the reporting unit is more likely than not less than its carrying amount, then a quantitative goodwill impairment test is performed. For the purposes of impairment testing, we have determined that we have one operating segment and one reporting unit. There was no impairment of goodwill recorded in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . Intangible Assets Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives of intangible assets, estimated based on our expected period of benefit, are as follows: Estimated Useful Life Customer contracts & related relationships 5-9 years Certifications 5 years Maintenance contracts & related relationships 5 years Existing technology 3 years Backlogsubscription 2 years Tradenames/trademarks 1-2 years Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We review long-lived assets, including property and equipment and intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Such events and changes may include: significant changes in performance relative to expected operating results, significant changes in asset use, significant negative industry or economic trends, and changes in our business strategy. An impairment loss is recognized when estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition are less than its carrying amount. No assets were determined to be impaired as of January 31, 2019 or 2018 . 80 Software Development Costs We capitalize qualifying internally-developed software development costs incurred during the application development stage, as long as it is probable the project will be completed, and the software will be used to perform the function intended. Capitalization of such costs ceases once the project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use. Capitalized software development costs are included in Property and equipment, net on our consolidated balance sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives of approximately three years. We capitalized $ 7.6 million , $ 2.4 million and $ 3.3 million of internally developed software in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . We recorded amortization expense related to capitalized software development costs of $ 2.8 million , $ 3.6 million and $ 4.6 million in the respective years. Business Combinations We account for our acquisitions using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires, among other things, allocation of the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. When determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, management makes significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Managements estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable and, as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. During the measurement period, not to exceed one year from the date of acquisition, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with a corresponding offset to goodwill if new information is obtained related to facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date. After the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are reflected in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Acquisition costs, such as legal and consulting fees, are expensed as incurred. Segments Operating segments are defined as components of an entity for which separate financial information is available and that is regularly reviewed by the Chief Operating Decision Maker, or the CODM, in deciding how to allocate resources to an individual segment and in assessing performance. Our Chief Executive Officer is our CODM. Our CODM reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions, allocating resources, and evaluating financial performance. As such, we have determined that we operate in one operating and one reportable segment. Legal Contingencies We expect to periodically evaluate developments in our legal matters that could affect the amount of liability that we accrue, if any, and adjust, as appropriate. Until the final resolution of any such matter for which we may be required to record a liability, there may be a loss exposure in excess of the liability recorded and such amount could be significant. We expense legal fees as incurred. Recent Accounting Pronouncements In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, issued accounting standards update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which supersedes current guidance related to accounting for leases. This guidance is intended to increase transparency and comparability among organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-10, Codification Improvements to Topic 842, Leases. The ASU makes 16 technical corrections to the new leases standard and other accounting topics, alleviating unintended consequences from applying the new standard. It does not make any substantive changes to the core provisions or principles of the new standard. In July 2018, the FASB also issued ASU No. 2018-11, Leases (Topic 842). The ASU provides (1) an optional transition method that entities can use when adopting the standard and (2) a practical expedient that permits lessors to not separate nonlease components from the associated lease component if certain conditions are met. 81 The standard is effective for public entities for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. We will adopt the new standard as of February 1, 2019 and will recognize a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of accumulated deficit as of the adoption date. We will elect the optional transition approach to not apply Topic 842 in the comparative periods presented and the package of practical expedients. We will adopt all available practical expedients, as applicable. We expect that the adoption of Topic 842 will result in the recognition of total right-of-use assets between $ 80.0 million and $ 100.0 million and total lease liabilities between $ 110.0 million and $ 130.0 million , with the most significant impact related to our office space leases. We do not expect the adoption of Topic 842 to have a material impact to the consolidated statements of operations or to have any impact on its cash flows from operating, investing or financing activities. In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13, Financial Instruments Credit Losses (Topic 326). ASU 2016-13 changes the impairment model for most financial assets, and will require the use of an expected loss model in place of the currently used incurred loss method. Under this model, entities will be required to estimate the lifetime expected credit loss on such instruments and record an allowance to offset the amortized cost basis of the financial asset, resulting in a net presentation of the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset. The update to the standard is effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2019. We are evaluating the impact of the adoption of ASU 2016-13 on our consolidated financial statements. In February 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-02, Income StatementReporting Comprehensive Income (Topic 220), which allows a reclassification from accumulated other comprehensive income to retained earnings for stranded tax effects resulting from the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, the Tax Act. As the amendment only relates to the reclassification of the income tax effects of the U.S. Tax Act, the underlying guidance that requires that the effect of a change in tax laws or rates be included in income from continuing operations is not affected. The standard is effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018 for all entities. The amendment is to be applied either in the period of adoption or retrospectively to each period in which the effect of the change in the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate in the Tax Act is recognized. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption of the standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-07, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Nonemployee Share-Based Payment Accounting. The ASU aligns the measurement and classification guidance for stock-based payments to nonemployees with the guidance for stock-based payments to employees, with certain exceptions. Under the guidance, the measurement of equity-classified nonemployee awards will be fixed at the grant date. The ASU is effective for public business entities in annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018, and interim periods within those years. Early adoption is permitted, including in an interim period, but not before an entity adopts the Topic 606 revenue guidance. The adoption of the standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In July 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-09, Codification Improvements, which clarifies, corrects errors in and makes improvements to several topics in the FASB Accounting Standard Codification. The transition and effective date guidance is based on the facts and circumstances of each amendment. Some of the amendments do not require transition guidance and were effective upon issuance of the ASU. Amendments that do have transition guidance are effective for public business entities for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2018. The adoption of the standard is not expected to have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-13, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820), which modifies, removes and adds certain disclosure requirements on fair value measurements based on the FASB Concepts Statement, Conceptual Framework for Financial ReportingChapter 8: Notes to Financial Statements . The ASU is effective for all entities for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. The amendments on changes in unrealized gains and losses, the range and weighted average of significant unobservable inputs used to develop Level 3 fair value measurements and the narrative description of measurement uncertainty should be applied prospectively for only the most recent interim or annual period presented in the initial fiscal year of adoption. All other amendments should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented upon their effective date. Early adoption is permitted. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of the ASU on our consolidated financial statements. In August 2018, the FASB issued ASU No. 2018-15, IntangiblesGoodwill and Other Internal-Use Software (Subtopic 350-40), which aligns the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a hosting arrangement that is a service contract with the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software (and hosting arrangements that include an internal use software license). The accounting for the service element of a hosting arrangement that is a service contract is not affected by the amendments in this ASU. The amendments in this Update are effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, and interim periods 82 within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted. We are in the process of evaluating the impact of the adoption of the ASU on our consolidated financial statements. Note 2 . Revenue and Performance Obligations Subscription revenue is recognized over time and accounted for approximately 95 % , 93 % and 91 % of our revenue in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . The typical subscription term is one to three years. Most of our subscription contracts are non-cancelable over the contractual term. Customers typically have the right to terminate their contracts for cause, if we fail to perform. As of January 31, 2019 , the aggregate amount of the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations was $ 570.7 million , which consists of both billed and unbilled consideration that we expect to recognize as subscription revenue. We expect to recognize 51 % of the transaction price in the twelve months following January 31, 2019 , in our consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss with the remainder recognized thereafter. We elected to apply the practical expedient to not disclose the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations for contracts with a contract term of one year or less. In addition, we do not disclose the transaction price related to revenue from professional services, training services and web revenue as revenue from these sources is recognized within one year. Note 3 . Fair Value Measurements We carry certain assets and liabilities at fair value. Fair value is defined as an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The three-tier hierarchy for inputs used in measuring fair value, which prioritizes the inputs based on the observability as of the measurement date, is as follows: Level 1 Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 Observable inputs other than the quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities; and Level 3 Unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which require us to develop assumptions of what market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. 83 The following table summarizes our financial assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis during the period: January 31, 2019 (in thousands) Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Level 1: Cash equivalents Money market funds $ 350,063 $ $ $ 350,063 Level 2: Cash equivalents Commercial paper 76,828 ( 11 ) 76,817 Corporate notes and bonds 2,998 2,998 U.S. government agency securities 6,491 6,491 Available-for-sale securities Commercial paper 86,655 4 ( 21 ) 86,638 Corporate notes and bonds 287,496 389 ( 105 ) 287,780 U.S. Treasury securities 4,982 ( 1 ) 4,981 U.S. government agency securities 36,021 7 ( 4 ) 36,024 Level 2 total 501,471 400 ( 142 ) 501,729 Total $ 851,534 $ 400 $ ( 142 ) $ 851,792 January 31, 2018 (in thousands) Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Estimated Fair Value Level 1: Cash equivalents Money market funds $ 122,663 $ $ $ 122,663 Money market funds consist of cash equivalents with original maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase. We use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities to determine the fair value of our Level 1 investments in money market funds. The fair value of our Level 2 investments is determined using pricing based on quoted market prices or alternative market observable inputs . The fair value of our available-for-sale marketable securities as of January 31, 2019 , by remaining contractual maturities, were as follows (in thousands): Due in one year or less $ 251,203 Due in one to two years 164,220 $ 415,423 As of January 31, 2019 , we had a total of 119 available-for-sale securities, none of which were considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired. As of January 31, 2018 , we had no marketable securities on our consolidated balance sheet. As of January 31, 2018 , our liabilities measured at fair value on recurring basis consisted of a warrant liability with a fair value $ 0.4 million (Level 3) for outstanding warrants to purchase 22,468 shares of our Series B-1 preferred stock. These warrants were issued in connection with a certain loan and securities agreement previously entered into with Silicon Valley Bank. We estimated the fair value of our warrant liability using the Black-Scholes pricing model. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the redeemable convertible preferred stock warrant liability are the fair value of the underlying stock at the valuation date and the estimated term of the warrant. All warrants to purchase shares of convertible preferred stock converted into 22,468 warrants to purchase common stock upon the closing of our IPO 84 on May 1, 2018 and were exercised immediately. The related warrant liability was reclassified to additional paid-in capital as of that date. We had no liabilities measured at fair value on recurring basis as of January 31, 2019 . Convertible Senior Notes As of January 31, 2019 , the estimated fair value of our 0.5 % Convertible Senior Notes with aggregate principal amount of $ 575.0 million equaled the principal amount. We estimated the fair value based on the quoted market prices in an inactive market on the last trading day of the reporting period (Level 2). These Convertible Senior Notes are recorded at face value less unamortized debt discount and transaction costs on our consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 10 for further information. Note 4 . Property and Equipment, Net Property and equipment consisted of the following: January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Computer and network equipment $ 55,233 $ 54,087 Software, including capitalized software development costs 27,959 24,270 Furniture and office equipment 9,511 9,692 Leasehold improvements 41,464 37,494 134,167 125,543 Less: Accumulated depreciation ( 66,479 ) ( 66,160 ) 67,688 59,383 Work in progress 8,144 3,636 $ 75,832 $ 63,019 As of January 31, 2019 , work in progress consisted primarily of capitalized internally-developed software development costs for projects still in progress. Depreciation expense associated with property and equipment was $ 24.9 million , $ 21.7 million and $ 18.1 million in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . As of January 31, 2019 , we capitalized $ 2.5 million related to the fair value of the Israel leased space and $ 1.7 million of construction costs in leasehold improvements under the build-to-suit lease guidance. The corresponding financing liability of $ 2.5 million , including interest, was recorded in " Other liabilitiesnoncurrent" on the consolidated balance sheets. Refer to Note 11 for additional information. Note 5 . Acquisition of SpringCM Inc. On September 4, 2018 , we completed the acquisition of SpringCM Inc., or SpringCM, a cloud-based document generation and contract lifecycle management software company based in Chicago, Illinois. With the addition of SpringCM's capabilities in document generation, redlining, advanced document management and end-to-end agreement workflow, the deal further accelerates the broadening of our solution beyond e-signature to the rest of the agreement processfrom preparing to signing, acting-on and managing agreements. Under the terms of the agreement, we acquired SpringCM for approximately $ 218.8 million in cash, excluding cash acquired, working capital and transaction cost adjustments. Of the cash paid at closing, $ 8.2 million will be held in escrow for an 18 -month period after closing to secure our indemnification rights under the Merger Agreement. Additionally, we granted certain continuing employees of SpringCM RSUs with service and performance conditions covering up to 0.5 million shares that will be accounted for as a post-acquisition compensation expense over the vesting period. The performance-based condition will be satisfied upon SpringCM meeting certain revenue targets. As of January 31, 2019 , the performance-based condition was not considered probable. We accounted for the transaction as a business combination using the acquisition method of accounting. We allocated the purchase price to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their respective estimated fair values on the acquisition date. Fair values were determined using the valuation performed by management. Excess purchase price consideration was recorded as goodwill and is primarily attributable to the assembled workforce and 85 expanded market opportunities when integrating SpringCMs capabilities in document generation, redlining, advanced document management and end-to-end agreement workflow with our other offerings. We engaged third party valuation specialists to aid our analysis of the fair value of the acquired intangibles. All estimates, key assumptions, and forecasts were either provided by or reviewed by us. While we chose to utilize a third-party valuation specialist for assistance, the fair value analysis and related valuations reflect the conclusions of management and not those of any third party. The fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were determined using the market, income and cost approaches. The purchase price allocation was prepared on a preliminary basis and is subject to further adjustments as additional information becomes available concerning the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Any adjustments to the purchase price allocation will be made as soon as practicable but no later than one year from the acquisition date. The following table summarizes the acquisition date fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition: (in thousands) September 4, 2018 Cash and cash equivalents $ 6,950 Accounts receivable and other assets 10,542 Property and equipment 6,108 Goodwill 159,097 Intangible assets 73,000 Contract liabilities ( 9,973 ) Other liabilities ( 12,948 ) Deferred tax liability ( 7,047 ) $ 225,729 None of the goodwill recognized upon acquisition is deductible for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The estimated useful lives, primarily based on the expected period of benefit to us, and fair values of the identifiable intangible assets at acquisition date were as follows: (in thousands, except years) Estimated Fair Value Expected Useful Life Existing technology $ 11,900 3 years Customer relationshipssubscription 54,200 9 years Backlogsubscription 6,400 2 years Tradenames / trademarks 500 1 year Total preliminary intangible assets $ 73,000 In the year ended January 31, 2019 , we incurred acquisition costs of $ 1.8 million . These costs include legal, accounting fees and other costs directly related to the acquisition and are classified within operating expenses in our consolidated statements of operations. We included the results of operations of SpringCM in our consolidated statements of operations from the acquisition date. In the year ended January 31, 2019 , our consolidated statement of operations includes revenues of $ 9.8 million . Due to the continued integration of the combined businesses, the information needed to determine earnings was unavailable. The following unaudited pro forma information has been prepared for illustrative purposes only and assumes the acquisition occurred on February 1, 2017. It includes pro forma adjustments related to the amortization of acquired intangible assets, stock-based compensation expense, professional services revenue and contract acquisitions costs adjustments under the new revenue recognition standard, and contract liabilities fair value adjustment. The unaudited pro forma results have been prepared based on estimates and assumptions, which we believe are reasonable, however, they are not necessarily indicative of the consolidated results of operations had the acquisition occurred on February 1, 2017, or of future results of operations: 86 (Unaudited) Year Ended January 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 Revenue $ 720,321 $ 544,680 Net loss ( 459,895 ) ( 69,078 ) Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders, basic and diluted ( 3.40 ) ( 2.18 ) Note 6 . Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill were as follows (in thousands): Balance at January 31, 2017 $ 35,782 Additions 139 Foreign currency translation 1,385 Balance at January 31, 2018 37,306 AdditionsSpringCM 159,097 Foreign currency translation ( 1,178 ) Balance at January 31, 2019 $ 195,225 Intangible assets consisted of the following: January 31, 2019 January 31, 2018 (in thousands) Weighted-average Remaining Useful Life (Years) Estimated Fair Value Accumulated Amortization Acquisition-related Intangibles, Net Estimated Fair Value Accumulated Amortization Acquisition-related Intangibles, Net Existing technology 2.6 $ 31,594 $ ( 20,747 ) $ 10,847 $ 19,694 $ ( 15,953 ) $ 3,741 Tradenames / trademarks 0.9 2,419 ( 1,858 ) 561 1,919 ( 1,294 ) 625 Customer contracts & related relationships 8.3 65,782 ( 11,168 ) 54,614 11,582 ( 6,411 ) 5,171 Certifications 1.5 6,917 ( 4,846 ) 2,071 6,917 ( 3,462 ) 3,455 Maintenance contracts & related relationships 1.3 1,498 ( 1,104 ) 394 1,498 ( 804 ) 694 BacklogSubscription 1.7 6,400 ( 1,304 ) 5,096 6.7 $ 114,610 $ ( 41,027 ) 73,583 $ 41,610 $ ( 27,924 ) 13,686 Cumulative translation adjustment 620 462 Total $ 74,203 $ 14,148 Amortization of finite-lived intangible assets in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was classified as follows: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Cost of subscription revenue $ 6,081 $ 6,793 $ 6,940 Sales and marketing 7,021 3,250 3,385 Total $ 13,102 $ 10,043 $ 10,325 87 As of January 31, 2019 , future amortization of finite-lived intangibles that will be recorded in cost of revenue and operating expenses is estimated as follows, excluding cumulative translation adjustment (in thousands): Fiscal 2020 $ 17,717 Fiscal 2021 13,818 Fiscal 2022 8,370 Fiscal 2023 6,023 Fiscal 2024 6,023 Thereafter 21,632 Total $ 73,583 Note 7 . Balance Sheet Components Components of prepaid expenses and other current assets were as follows: January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Prepaid expenses and other current assets Prepaid expenses $ 18,415 $ 16,062 Other current assets 11,561 7,287 Total $ 29,976 $ 23,349 Note 8 . Contract Balances Contract assets represent amounts for which we have recognized revenue, pursuant to our revenue recognition policy, for contracts that have not yet been invoiced to our customers where there is a remaining performance obligation, typically for multi-year arrangements. Total contract assets were $ 11.9 million and $ 16.1 million as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 , of which $ 1.3 million and $ 1.9 million were noncurrent and included within "Other assetsnoncurrent" on our consolidated balance sheets. The change in contract assets reflects the difference in timing between our satisfaction of remaining performance obligations and our contractual right to bill our customers. Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue and include payments received in advance of performance under the contract. Such amounts are generally recognized as revenue over the contractual period. In the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , we recognized revenue of $ 264.0 million , $ 180.4 million and $ 123.4 million that was included in the corresponding contract liability balance at the beginning of the periods presented. We receive payments from customers based upon contractual billing schedules. We record accounts receivable when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. Payment terms on invoiced amounts are typically 30 days. 88 Note 9 . Deferred Contract Acquisition and Fulfillment Costs The following table represents a rollforward of our deferred contract acquisition costs: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Beginning balance $ 77,344 $ 57,271 Additions to deferred contract acquisition costs 78,983 48,716 Amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs ( 40,342 ) ( 28,643 ) Ending balance $ 115,985 $ 77,344 Deferred contract acquisition costs, current $ 3,402 $ 1,809 Deferred contract acquisitions costs, noncurrent 112,583 75,535 Total $ 115,985 $ 77,344 The following table represents our contract fulfillment costs, which include third-party service fees: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Beginning balance $ 3,316 $ 788 Additions to deferred contract fulfillment costs 1,886 4,262 Amortization of deferred contract fulfillment costs ( 1,770 ) ( 1,734 ) Ending balance $ 3,432 $ 3,316 Deferred contract fulfillment costs, current $ 765 $ 1,575 Deferred contract fulfillment costs, noncurrent 2,667 1,741 Total $ 3,432 $ 3,316 Current deferred contract acquisition and fulfillment costs are included in "Prepaid expenses and other current assets" and noncurrent deferred contract fulfillment costs are included in "Other assetsnoncurrent" on our consolidated balance sheets. Note 10 . Convertible Senior Notes In September 2018, we issued $ 575.0 million aggregate principal amount of 0.5 % Convertible Senior Notes due in 2023 (the Notes), including the initial purchasers exercise in full of their option to purchase an additional $ 75.0 million principal amount of the Notes, in a private placement to qualified institutional buyers exempt from registration under the Securities Act. The net proceeds from the issuance of the Notes were $ 560.8 million after deducting the initial purchasers discounts and transaction costs. The Notes are governed by an indenture (the Indenture) between us, as the issuer, and U.S. Bank National Association, as trustee. The Notes are our senior unsecured obligations and rank senior in right of payment to any of our indebtedness that is expressly subordinated in right of payment to the Notes; equal in right of payment to any of our unsecured indebtedness then existing and future liabilities that are not so subordinated; effectively junior in right of payment to any of our secured indebtedness, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such indebtedness; and structurally junior to all indebtedness and other liabilities (including trade payables) of our subsidiaries. The Indenture does not contain any financial covenants or restrictions on the payments of dividends, the incurrence of indebtedness, or the issuance or repurchase of securities by us or any of our subsidiaries. The Notes mature on September 15, 2023 unless earlier repurchased or redeemed by us or earlier converted in accordance with their terms prior to the maturity date. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on March 15, 2019. The Notes have an initial conversion rate of 13.9860 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes, which is equal to an initial conversion price of approximately $ 71.50 per share of our common stock and is subject to adjustment in some events. Following certain corporate events that occur prior to the maturity date or following our issuance of a notice of redemption, we will increase the conversion rate for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with 89 such corporate event or during the related redemption period in certain circumstances. Additionally, upon the occurrence of a corporate event that constitutes a fundamental change per the Indenture, holders of the Notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or a portion of their Notes at a purchase price equal to 100 % of the principal amount of the Notes plus accrued and unpaid interest. On or after June 15, 2023, until the close of business on September 13, 2023, holders may convert all or any portion of their Notes at any time regardless of whether the conditions set forth below have been met. Upon conversion, holders will receive cash, shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our election. Holders of the Notes may convert all or any portion of their Notes at any time prior to the close of business on June 14, 2023, in integral multiples of $1,000 principal amount, only under the following circumstances: During any fiscal quarter commencing after the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2019 (and only during such fiscal quarter), if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on, and including, the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130 % of the conversion price on each applicable trading day; During the 5 -business day period after any 10 consecutive trading day period (the measurement period) in which the trading price as defined in the Indenture per $1,000 principal amount of notes for each trading day of the measurement period was less than 98 % of the product of the last reported sale price of our common stock and the conversion rate on each such trading day; If we call any or all of the notes for redemption, at any time prior to the close of business on the scheduled trading day immediately preceding the redemption date; or Upon the occurrence of specified corporate events described in the Indenture. We may redeem for cash or shares all or any portion of the Notes, at our option, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, beginning on or after September 20, 2021 if the last reported sale price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during a period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on, and including, the last trading day of the immediately preceding fiscal quarter is greater than or equal to 130 % of the conversion price on each applicable trading day. As of January 31, 2019 , the conditions allowing holders of the Notes to convert have not been met and therefore the Notes are not yet convertible. We account for the Notes as separate liability and equity components. We determined the carrying amount of the liability component as the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of 6 % based on comparable convertible transactions for similar companies. The carrying amount of the equity component representing the conversion option was $ 134.7 million and was calculated by deducting the carrying value of the liability component from the principal amount of the Notes as a whole. This difference represents a debt discount that is amortized to interest expense over the term of the Notes using the effective interest rate method. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the conditions for equity classification. We allocate transaction costs related to the issuance of the Notes to the liability and equity components using the same proportions as the initial carrying value of the Notes. Transaction costs attributable to the liability component were $ 10.9 million and are being amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the term of the Notes. Transaction costs attributable to the equity component were $ 3.3 million and are netted with the equity component of the Notes in stockholders equity. The net carrying value of the liability component of the Notes was as follows: (in thousands) January 31, 2019 Principal $ 575,000 Less: unamortized debt discount ( 125,872 ) Less: unamortized transaction costs ( 10,196 ) Net carrying amount $ 438,932 The net carrying amount of the equity component of the Notes was as follows: 90 (in thousands) January 31, 2019 Proceeds allocated to the conversion option (debt discount) $ 134,667 Less: transaction costs ( 3,336 ) Net carrying amount $ 131,331 The interest expense recognized related to the Notes was as follows: (in thousands) Year Ended January 31, 2019 Contractual interest expense $ 1,071 Amortization of debt discount 8,795 Amortization of transaction costs 712 Total $ 10,578 Capped Calls In connection with the offering of the Notes, we entered into privately-negotiated capped call transactions, or Capped Calls, with certain counterparties. The Capped Calls each have an initial strike price of approximately $ 71.50 per share, subject to certain adjustments, which corresponds to the initial conversion price of the Notes. The Capped Calls have initial cap prices of $ 110.00 per share, subject to certain adjustments. The Capped Calls cover, subject to anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 8.0 million shares of our common stock. The Capped Calls are generally intended to reduce or offset the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Notes with such reduction or offset, as the case may be, subject to a cap based on the cap price. As the Capped Call transactions are considered indexed to our own stock and are considered equity classified, they are recorded in stockholders equity and are not accounted for as derivatives. The cost of $ 67.6 million incurred in connection with the Capped Calls was recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. Impact on Earnings Per Share The Notes will not have an impact on our diluted earnings per share until the average market price of our common stock exceeds the conversion price of $ 110.00 per share, as we intend and have the ability to settle the principal amount of the Notes in cash upon conversion. We are required under the treasury stock method to compute the potentially dilutive shares of common stock related to the Notes for periods we report net income. However, upon conversion, there will be no economic dilution from the Notes until the average market price of our common stock exceeds the cap price of $ 110.00 per share, as exercise of the Capped Calls offsets any dilution from the Notes from the conversion price up to the cap price. Capped Calls are excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share, as they would be antidilutive under the treasury stock method. Note 11 . Commitments and Contingencies Operating Leases We lease office space under noncancelable operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through June 2027 . Some operating leases contain escalation provisions for adjustments in the consumer price index. We are responsible for maintenance, insurance and property taxes. We recognize rent expense on a straight-line basis over the defined lease periods. We incurred rent expense under operating leases of $ 19.8 million , $ 17.7 million and $ 15.8 million in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . We entered into eight leases during the year ended January 31, 2019 . 91 The future minimum annual lease payments as of January 31, 2019 , related to the outstanding lease agreements were as follows (in thousands): Fiscal 2020 $ 22,198 Fiscal 2021 22,617 Fiscal 2022 22,556 Fiscal 2023 23,173 Fiscal 2024 23,373 Thereafter 34,634 Total minimum lease payments $ 148,551 Israel Build-to-Suit Lease In July 2018, we entered into a long-term lease of a new-construction office space in Giv'at Shmuel, Israel. The lease has a term of 10 years with an option to cancel after five years and six months and an option to extend for five years. Since the office space was delivered to us as a cold shell and we are performing construction activities, for accounting purposes only, we are deemed to be the owner of the entire project, including the office space shell. In August 2018, upon commencement of the construction, we began to capitalize the related costs, including the fair value of the office space shell, as a build-to-suit property within "Property and equipment, net" and recognize a corresponding build-to-suit lease obligation, including interest. Fair value of the office space shell was estimated at $ 2.5 million using comparable market prices per square foot for similar space for public real estate transactions in the surrounding area. It is a Level 2 fair value measure. As of January 31, 2019 , $ 4.2 million was capitalized for the building and construction costs. Construction was completed on the office in December 2018 and, as such, a portion of the monthly lease payment is allocated to land rent and recorded as an operating lease expense and the non-interest portion of the amortized lease payments to the landlord related to the rent of the building is applied to reduce the build-to-suit lease obligation. Other Obligations As of January 31, 2019 , we had unused letters of credit outstanding associated with our various operating leases totaling $ 9.8 million . We have entered into certain noncancelable contractual arrangements that require future purchases of goods and services. These arrangements primarily relate to cloud infrastructure support and sales and marketing activities. As of January 31, 2019 , our noncancelable contractual obligations with a remaining term of more than one year were as follows (in thousands): Fiscal 2020 $ 5,722 Fiscal 2021 4,690 Fiscal 2022 2,041 Fiscal 2023 898 Fiscal 2024 943 Thereafter 4,554 Total $ 18,848 In February 2018, subsequent to year end, we renewed a cloud-based software agreement that includes a noncancelable commitment of $ 15.7 million through the year ended January 31, 2022. In March 2019, we purchased an investment in a private company for $ 15.0 million . 92 Indemnification We enter into indemnification provisions under our agreements with other companies in the ordinary course of business, including business partners, contractors and parties performing our research and development. Pursuant to these arrangements, we agree to indemnify and defend the indemnified party for certain claims and related losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party from actual or threatened third-party claim because of our activities. The duration of these indemnification agreements is generally perpetual. The maximum potential amount of future payments we could be required to make under these indemnifications is not determinable. Historically, we have not incurred material costs to defend lawsuits or settle claims related to these indemnification agreements. As a result, we believe the fair value of these indemnification agreements is not material as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 . We maintain commercial general liability insurance and product liability insurance to offset certain of our potential liabilities under these indemnification agreements. We have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors and executive officers. These agreements require us to indemnify such individuals, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, for certain liabilities to which they may become subject as a result of their affiliation with us. Claims and Litigation From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings, claims and litigations made against us in the ordinary course of business. We are not currently a party to any legal proceedings or are aware of any pending or threatened litigation, that would have a material adverse effect to our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, should such litigation be resolved unfavorably. Note 12 . Stockholders' Equity Redeemable Convertible Preferred Stock We previously issued Series A, Series A-1, Series B, Series B-1, Series C, Series D, Series E, and Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock prior to the IPO. Upon completion of the IPO, all 100.2 million shares of our convertible preferred stock automatically converted into an aggregate of 100.4 million shares of our common stock. Refer to Note 1 for further information. Common Stock Reserved for Future Issuance We have reserved the following shares of common stock, on an as-if converted basis, for future issuance as of January 31, 2019 : January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Conversion of outstanding convertible preferred stock 100,350 Warrants to purchase preferred stock 22 Warrants to purchase common stock 18 Options issued and outstanding 13,648 19,832 RSUs outstanding 17,558 23,081 Remaining shares available for future issuance under the Equity Incentive Plans 17,519 709 Remaining shares available for future issuance under the ESPP 3,800 Total shares of common stock reserved 52,525 144,012 Equity Incentive Plans We maintain three stock-based compensation plans: the 2018 Equity Incentive Plan, or the 2018 Plan, the Amended and Restated 2011 Equity Incentive Plan (2011 Plan) and the Amended and Restated 2003 Stock Plan, or the 2003 Plan. 93 Our board of directors adopted, and our stockholders approved, the 2018 Plan during the year ended January 31, 2019 . The 2018 Plan went into effect in April 2018, upon the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement. This plan serves as a successor to the 2011 Plan and 2003 Plan and provides for the grant of stock-based awards to our employees, directors and consultants. No additional awards under the 2011 Plan or 2003 Plan will be made as of the effective date of the 2018 Plan. Outstanding awards under these two plans continue to be subject to the terms and conditions of the respective plans. Shares available for grant under the 2011 Plan that were reserved but not issued as of the effective date of the 2018 Plan were added to the reserves of the 2018 Plan. Any shares subject to outstanding awards originally granted under the 2011 Plan that: (i) expire or terminate for any reason prior to exercise or settlement; (ii) are forfeited because of the failure to meet a contingency or condition required to vest such shares or otherwise return to the Company; or (iii) are reacquired, withheld (or not issued) to satisfy a tax withholding obligation in connection with an award or to satisfy the purchase price or exercise price of a stock award shall become available for future issuance pursuant to the 2018 Plan. The equity awards available for grant for the periods presented were as follows: (in thousands) Year Ended January 31, 2019 Available at beginning of fiscal year 709 Awards authorized 19,021 Options canceled/expired 393 RSUs granted ( 9,255 ) RSUs cancelled 1,377 Shares withheld and retired 5,274 Available at end of fiscal year 17,519 The number of shares reserved under the 2018 Plan will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year, starting on February 1, 2019 and continuing through February 1, 2028, in an amount equal to (i) 5 % of the total number of shares of our capital stock outstanding on January 31st of the preceding fiscal year or (ii) a lesser number of shares as determined by our board of directors. Pursuant to this automatic increase, the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved an increase of 8.5 million shares reserved for issuance effective on February 1, 2019. Stock Options We calculated the fair value of each option award on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following weighted-average assumptions were used for the periods presented, in which options were granted: Year Ended January 31, 2018 2017 Risk-free interest rate 1.86% - 2.17% 1.25% - 2.19% Expected dividend yield Expected life of option (in years) 6.05 6.05 Expected volatility 44.99% - 45.53% 45.77% - 48.58% 94 The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant for the expected life of the award. Our computation of expected life was based on safe harbor rules as prescribed by the simplified method for estimating expected term. We have assumed a 0 % dividend yield. Our computation of expected volatility is based on a calculation using the historical stock information of companies deemed comparable to us, for the period matching the expected term of each option and with an end date matching each of the various measurement dates. Determination of these assumptions involves managements best estimates at that time, which impact the fair value of the option calculated under the Black-Scholes methodology, and ultimately the expense that will be recognized over the life of the option. The estimated weighted-average grant date fair value for stock options granted during the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 was $ 7.41 and $ 8.43 per share. The decrease in the value was primarily driven by an increase in the time-to-liquidity estimate, changes in industry trends and prices at which our common stock was transacted between third parties, such as employees, existing and outside investors. All such options were granted with an exercise price equal to the estimated fair value of our common stock at the date of grant. There were no options granted during the year ended January 31, 2019 . Option activity was as follows: (in thousands, except per share data) Number of Options Outstanding Weighted-Average Exercise Price Per Share Weighted-Average Remaining Contractual Term (Years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value (In thousands) Balances at January 31, 2018 19,832 $ 11.44 6.62 $ 152,754 Options exercised ( 5,791 ) 9.40 Options canceled/expired ( 393 ) 12.36 Balances at January 31, 2019 13,648 $ 12.27 5.38 $ 507,371 Vested and expected to vest at January 31, 2019 13,462 $ 12.20 5.35 $ 501,458 Exercisable at January 31, 2019 11,548 $ 11.32 4.99 $ 440,309 As of January 31, 2019 , our total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock option grants was $ 14.2 million . We expect to recognize this expense over the remaining weighted-average period of approximately 1.6 years. The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $ 171.6 million , $ 83.6 million and $ 28.9 million . The total grant date fair value of options vesting during the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $ 25.8 million , $ 33.6 million and $ 38.8 million . During the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 , we modified the equity award agreements of seven employees whose employment ceased. The terms of the modification agreements accelerated the time-based vesting requirements of these employees unvested equity holdings and extended their time to exercise the vested stock options from the separation date. Total incremental compensation cost resulting from these modifications was $ 0.3 million and $ 4.1 million in the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 . There were no material modifications during the year end January 31, 2019 . RSUs Substantially all the RSUs that we have issued through January 31, 2018 vest upon the satisfaction of both service-based and performance-based vesting conditions. The service-based condition is typically satisfied over a four -year service period. The performance-based condition related to these awards was satisfied upon the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement on April 26, 2018. On that date we recorded a cumulative stock-based compensation expense of $ 262.8 million using the accelerated attribution method for all the RSUs with the service condition fully satisfied. The total grant date fair value of RSUs vested during the year ended January 31, 2019 was $ 260.8 million . No RSUs vested during the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 . During the year ended January 31, 2019 , we granted 0.7 million RSUs that are subject to either a performance-based or market-based vesting conditions and a service-based condition. The performance-based conditions will be satisfied if our financial performance meets certain operating targets. The market-based conditions will be satisfied if certain milestones based on our common stock price are met. All other RSUs granted after January 31, 2018 vest on the satisfaction of a service-based condition only. The weighted-average grant date fair value for RSUs granted during the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 was $ 53.77 , $ 17.04 and $ 18.04 per share. 95 RSU activity was as follows: (in thousands, except per share data) Number of Units Weighted-Average Grant Date Fair Value Unvested at January 31, 2018 23,081 $ 17.54 Granted 9,255 53.77 Vested ( 13,817 ) 18.87 Canceled ( 1,377 ) 26.59 Unvested at January 31, 2019 17,142 $ 34.56 During the year ended January 31, 2019 , we settled 12.6 million RSUs for which the service-based condition was satisfied on or prior to December 15, 2018 and 0.8 million PSUs for which the performance condition was satisfied in January 2019. In connection with these settlements, we withheld 5.3 million shares and remitted tax liabilities of $ 215.3 million on behalf of the RSUs holders to the relevant tax authorities in cash. As of January 31, 2019 , our total unrecognized compensation cost related to RSUs was $ 384.5 million . We expect to recognize this expense over the remaining weighted-average period of approximately 2.1 years. 2018 Employee Stock Purchase Plan In the year ended January 31, 2019 , our board of directors adopted, and our stockholders approved the 2018 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (2018 ESPP). In April 2018, the 2018 ESPP went into effect upon the effectiveness of our IPO Registration Statement. Subject to any limitations contained therein, the 2018 ESPP allows eligible employees to contribute, normally through payroll deductions, up to 15 % of their earnings for the purchase of our common stock at a discounted price per share. The 2018 ESPP provides for separate six -month offering periods. The initial offering period will run from September 15, 2018 through March 14, 2019. We calculated the fair value of the ESPP purchase right using the BlackScholes optionpricing model, based on the following assumptions: Year Ended January 31, 2019 Risk-free interest rate 2.33 % Expected dividend yield % Expected life of purchase right (in years) 0.5 Expected volatility 40 % The expected term for the ESPP purchase rights is estimated using the offering period, which is typically six months. We estimate volatility for options and ESPP purchase rights using volatilities of a group of public companies in a similar industry, stage of life cycle, and size. The interest rate is derived from government bonds with a similar term to the ESPP purchase right granted. We have not declared, nor do we expect to declare dividends. The weighted-average grant date fair value of ESPP purchase rights was $ 14.24 per share and compensation expense related to the ESPP was $ 2.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 . A total of 3.8 million shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under the 2018 ESPP. As of January 31, 2019 , no shares of our common stock have been purchased under the 2018 ESPP. The number of shares reserved under the 2018 ESPP will automatically increase on the first day of each fiscal year, starting on February 1, 2019 and continuing through February 1, 2028, in an amount equal to the lesser of (i) 1 % of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding on January 31 of the preceding fiscal year, (ii) 3.8 million shares, or (iii) a lesser number of shares determined by our board of directors. 96 Note 13 . Net Loss per Share Attributable to Common Stockholders The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted net loss per share attributable to common stockholders for periods presented: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 Numerator: Net loss $ ( 426,458 ) $ ( 52,276 ) $ ( 115,412 ) Less: preferred stock accretion ( 353 ) ( 1,461 ) ( 1,456 ) Net loss attributable to common stockholders $ ( 426,811 ) $ ( 53,737 ) $ ( 116,868 ) Denominator: Weighted-average common shares outstanding 135,163 32,294 28,020 Net loss per share attributable to common stockholders: Basic and diluted $ ( 3.16 ) $ ( 1.66 ) $ ( 4.17 ) Outstanding potentially dilutive securities that were excluded from the diluted per share calculations because they would have been antidilutive are as follows: January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Convertible preferred stock as-converted 100,350 100,350 Stock options 13,648 19,832 27,302 Warrants to purchase convertible preferred stock 22 22 Warrants to purchase common stock 18 18 RSUs 16,568 ESPP 295 Total antidilutive securities 30,511 120,222 127,692 The table above does not include 0.6 million , 23.1 million and 16.8 million RSUs outstanding as of January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 as these RSUs are subject to operating and stock price targets or a liquidity event performance condition that was not considered probable as of that period. Note 14 Employee Benefit Plan In 2004, we established a defined contribution savings plan (the Plan) that meets the requirements under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. This Plan covers substantially all employees who meet minimum age and service requirements and allows participants to defer a portion of their annual compensation on a pre-tax basis. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019, we began to match 50 % of each participants contribution up to a maximum of 6 % of the participants base salary and commissions paid during the period. During the year ended January 31, 2019 , we recognized an expense of $ 1.7 million related to matching contributions. We did not make any contributions in the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 . Note 15 . Income Taxes The domestic and foreign components of pre-tax loss were as follows: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 U.S. $ ( 460,627 ) $ ( 54,485 ) $ ( 109,669 ) International 32,419 5,343 ( 5,387 ) Loss before income taxes $ ( 428,208 ) $ ( 49,142 ) $ ( 115,056 ) 97 The components of our income tax provision (benefit) were as follows: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Current Federal $ $ 37 $ State 413 ( 46 ) 28 Foreign 2,838 4,139 316 Total current 3,251 4,130 344 Deferred Federal ( 7,083 ) ( 110 ) 80 State ( 2 ) 15 4 Foreign 2,084 ( 901 ) ( 72 ) Total deferred ( 5,001 ) ( 996 ) 12 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes $ ( 1,750 ) $ 3,134 $ 356 The reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to our effective tax rate was as follows: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 U.S statutory rate 21.0 % 32.9 % 34.0 % State taxes 3.1 10.9 Foreign tax rate differential 0.3 ( 7.3 ) ( 1.9 ) Stock-based compensation 17.5 38.3 ( 4.6 ) Change in valuation allowance ( 43.6 ) 28.2 ( 28.2 ) Overall impact of federal tax rate change from 34% to 21% ( 121.1 ) Research and development credits 4.0 2.3 Other ( 1.9 ) 9.4 0.4 Effective tax rate 0.4 % ( 6.4 )% ( 0.3 )% 98 The significant components of net deferred tax balances were as follows: January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Deferred tax assets Net operating loss carryforwards $ 280,835 $ 115,555 Accruals and reserves 3,180 2,800 Stock-based compensation 39,334 7,846 Research and development credits 22,876 4,977 Other 10,715 11,944 Total deferred tax assets 356,940 143,122 Deferred tax liabilities Deferred contract acquisition costs ( 28,103 ) ( 19,234 ) Convertible debt ( 29,531 ) Acquired intangibles ( 16,766 ) ( 705 ) Other ( 3,885 ) ( 5,471 ) Total deferred tax liabilities ( 78,285 ) ( 25,410 ) Less: Valuation allowance ( 282,141 ) ( 119,153 ) Net deferred tax liabilities $ ( 3,486 ) $ ( 1,441 ) We account for deferred taxes under ASC 740, Income Taxes, which requires a reduction of the carrying amounts of deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that such assets will not be realized. Accordingly, the need to establish valuation allowances for deferred tax assets is assessed periodically based on the ASC 740 more-likely-than-not realization threshold criterion. This assessment considers matters such as future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, projected future taxable income, tax-planning strategies and results of recent operations. The evaluation of the recoverability of the deferred tax assets requires that we weigh all positive and negative evidence to reach a conclusion that it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The weight given to the evidence is commensurate with the extent to which it can be objectively verified. Due to our lack of U.S. earnings history, the net U.S. deferred tax assets have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. The valuation allowance increased by $ 163.0 million in the year ended January 31, 2019 and decreased by $ 13.9 million in the year ended January 31, 2018 . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Tax Act. The Tax Act significantly impacts the future ongoing U.S. corporate income tax by, among things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rates from 34% to 21% , providing for unlimited net operating loss carry-forward periods, and implementing a territorial tax system. The reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate required us to remeasure our U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities in the year ended January 31, 2018 to the newly enacted federal rate of 21% . In December 2017, the SEC Staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which allows us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. During the three months ended January 31, 2019 , the amounts recorded for the Tax Act no longer remain provisional as we completed our accounting for the effect of the Tax Act within the measurement period, under the SEC guidance, which did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. However, the amounts recorded for the repatriation tax, the remeasurement of deferred taxes, and our reassessment of indefinitely reinvested earnings, uncertain tax positions, and valuation allowances may be impacted by future clarification and guidance regarding available tax accounting methods and elections, earnings and profits computations, and state tax conformity to federal tax changes, among others. Collectively, we had no foreign earnings as of January 31, 2019 , and therefore were not subject to the mandatory repatriation tax provisions of the Tax Act. However, some of our foreign subsidiaries do have accumulated earnings. No deferred tax liabilities for foreign withholding taxes have been recorded relating to the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries since all such earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested. The amount of the unrecognized deferred tax liability associated with these earnings is immaterial. 99 As of January 31, 2019 , we had accumulated federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of $ 1.1 billion and $ 463.8 million . Of the $ 1.1 billion of federal net operating losses, $ 105.8 million is carried forward indefinitely and is not limited to 80% of taxable income, and $ 612.8 million is carried forward indefinitely, but is limited to 80% of taxable income. The remaining federal and state net operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2023 and 2022. As of January 31, 2019 , we also had total foreign net operating loss carryforwards of $ 4.9 million , which do not expire under local law. As of January 31, 2019 , we had accumulated U.S. federal and state research tax credits of $ 23.6 million and $ 6.8 million . The U.S. federal research tax credits will begin to expire in 2023. The U.S. state research tax credits do not expire. Available net operating losses may be subject to annual limitations due to ownership change limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code, as amended, or the Code, and similar state provisions. Under Section 382 of the Code, substantial changes in our ownership and the ownership of acquired companies may limit the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that are available to offset taxable income. We conducted an analysis through December 31, 2018, to determine whether an ownership change had occurred since inception. The analysis indicated that, because an ownership change occurred in a prior year, federal and state net operating losses were limited pursuant to IRC Section 382. This limitation has been accounted for in calculating the available net operating loss carryforwards. In the event we have subsequent changes in ownership, net operating losses and research and development credit carryovers could be limited and may expire unutilized as a result of the subsequent ownership change. The foreign jurisdictions in which we operate may have similar provisions that may limit our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards incurred by entities that we have acquired. Additional limitations on the use of these tax attributes could occur in the event of possible disputes arising in examination from various taxing authorities. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. (federal and state) and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and determining our provision for income taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We establish reserves for income tax-related uncertainties based on estimates of whether, and the extent to which, additional income taxes will be due. These reserves are established when we believe that certain positions might be challenged despite our belief that our tax return positions are fully supportable. We adjust these reserves in light of changing facts and circumstances, such as the outcome of tax audits, changes in tax regulations, the outcome of relevant court cases, and other information. The provision for income taxes includes the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that are considered appropriate. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balance of total unrecognized tax benefits was as follows: January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 Unrecognized tax benefits balance at February 1 $ 7,733 $ Gross decrease for tax positions of prior years ( 407 ) Gross increase for tax positions of current year 2,407 7,733 Unrecognized tax benefits balance at January 31 $ 9,733 $ 7,733 A significant portion of the unrecognized tax benefit was recorded as a reduction in our gross deferred tax assets, offset by a reduction in our valuation allowance. We have net uncertain tax positions of $ 2.9 million and $ 2.5 million included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of January 31, 2019 and 2018 . There was no such liability as of January 31, 2017 . We recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions within the income tax expense line in the consolidated statements of operations. Accrued interest and penalties are included within the related tax liability line in the consolidated balance sheets. As of January 31, 2019 , accrued interest or penalties related to uncertain tax positions were $ 0.4 million . The income taxes we pay are subject to review by taxing jurisdictions globally. Our estimate of the potential outcome of any uncertain tax position is subject to managements assessment of relevant risks, facts and circumstances existing at that time. However, our future results may include adjustments to estimates in the period the audits are resolved, which may impact our effective tax rate. As of January 31, 2019 , the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that would affect our effective tax rate, if recognized, would have been $ 2.4 million . 100 Our tax years from inception in 2003 through January 31, 2019 , remain subject to examination by the U.S. and California, as well as various other jurisdictions. We are under examination by the Israeli Tax Authorities for the calendar years, 2013 through 2016. We recognize valuation allowances on deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The following table represents the rollforward of our valuation allowance: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 Beginning balance $ 119,153 $ 133,029 $ 103,416 Valuation allowance charged to income tax provision 201,646 56,566 45,874 Adoption of new accounting principle 5,610 Valuation allowance credited as a result of U.S. Tax Act ( 59,520 ) Convertible Debt issued ( 31,594 ) Acquisition of SpringCM ( 7,064 ) Valuation allowance credited to income tax provision ( 16,532 ) ( 16,261 ) Ending balance $ 282,141 $ 119,153 $ 133,029 Note 16 . Geographic Information Revenue by geography is generally based on the address of the customer as specified in our master subscription agreement. Revenue by geographic area were as follows: Year Ended January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 2017 U.S. $ 581,011 $ 428,551 $ 316,309 International 119,958 89,953 65,150 Total revenue $ 700,969 $ 518,504 $ 381,459 No single country other than the U.S. had revenue greater than 10% of total revenue in the years ended January 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 . Our property and equipment by geographic area were as follows: January 31, (in thousands) 2019 2018 U.S. $ 60,625 $ 51,023 International 15,207 11,996 Total property and equipment $ 75,832 $ 63,019 ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. 101 ITEM 9A.