Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, could, "will, seek, depends, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about: our ability to attract new customers and retain and expand our relationships with existing customers; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit, operating expenses, key metrics, ability to generate cash flow and ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; the anticipated trends, market opportunity, growth rates and challenges in our business and in the business intelligence software market; the efficacy of our sales and marketing efforts; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to respond to and capitalize on rapid technological changes; our expectations and management of future growth; our ability to enter new markets and manage our expansion efforts, particularly internationally; our ability to develop new product features; our ability to attract and retain key employees and qualified technical and sales personnel; our ability to effectively and efficiently protect our brand; our ability to timely scale and adapt our infrastructure; the effect of general economic and market conditions on our business; the impact of the coronavirus pandemic, including on the global economy, our results of operations, enterprise software spending, and business continuity; our ability to protect our customers' data and proprietary information; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property and not infringe upon others intellectual property; and our ability to comply with all governmental laws, regulations and other legal obligations. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives or plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 28 Overview We founded Domo in 2010 with the vision of digitally connecting everyone within the enterprise with real-time, rich, relevant data and then encouraging all employees to collaborate and act on that data. We realized that many organizations were unable to access the massive amounts of data that they were collecting in siloed cloud applications and on-premise databases. Furthermore, even for organizations that were capable of accessing their data, the process for doing so was time-consuming, costly, and often resulted in the data being out-of-date by the time it reached decision makers. The delivery format, including alert functionality, and devices were not adequate for the connected and real-time mobile workforce. Based on these observations, it was apparent that all organizations, regardless of size or industry, were failing to unlock the power of all of their people, data, and systems. To address these challenges, we provide a cloud-based platform that digitally connects everyone at an organization from the CEO to frontline employees with all the people, data, and systems in an organization, giving them access to real-time data and insights and allowing them to manage their business from their smartphones. We offer our platform to our customers as a subscription-based service. Subscription fees are based upon the chosen Domo package which includes tier-based platform capabilities as well as users. Business leaders, department heads and managers are the typical initial subscribers to our platform, deploying Domo to solve a business problem or to enable departmental access. Over time, as customers recognize the value of our platform, we increasingly engage with CIOs and other executives to facilitate broad enterprise adoption. A majority of our customers subscribe to our services through multi-year contracts. As of October 31, 2020, 59% of our customers were under multi-year contracts, compared to 55% of customers as of January 31, 2020. The high percentage of multi-year contracts, among both new and existing customers, has enhanced the predictability of our subscription revenue. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance, but have recently seen an increase in requests for semi-annual and quarterly billing terms. However, in our most recent quarter ended October 31, 2020, we have seen an overall improvement in the portion of total billings that are annual in advance. A majority of our annual recurring revenue is up for renewal during the fiscal year ending January 31, 2021. Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations (RPO) represents the remaining amount of revenue we expect to recognize from existing non-cancelable contracts, whether billed or unbilled. As of October 31, 2019 and 2020, total RPO was $205.9 million and $248.8 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 21%. The amount of RPO expected to be recognized as revenue in the next twelve months was $125.8 million and $153.9 million as of October 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 22%. We had total revenue of $44.8 million and $53.6 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively, reflecting a year-over-year increase of 20%. For the nine months ended October 31, 2019 and 2020, we had total revenue of $127.2 million and $153.3 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 21%. Our enterprise customers were a key driver of revenue growth, with revenue of $20.4 million and $27.0 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively, or 32% year-over-year growth. For the nine months ended October 31, 2019 and 2020, revenue from enterprise customers was $59.6 million and $76.9 million, respectively, or 29% year-over-year growth. For the nine months ended October 31, 2019 and 2020, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue, nor did any single organization when accounting for multiple subsidiaries or divisions which may have been invoiced separately. Revenue from customers with billing addresses in the United States comprised 76% and 76% or our total revenue for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including net losses of $29.1 million and $22.2 million for the three months ended October 31, 2019 and 2020, respectively, and had an accumulated deficit of $1,102.8 million at October 31, 2020. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Recent Developments A novel strain of coronavirus, COVID-19, emerged in China in December 2019 and began to spread globally, including to the United States, in early 2020. The World Health Organization has declared COVID-19 to be a public health emergency of international concern. The full impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is inherently uncertain at the time of this report. The COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in travel restrictions and in some cases, prohibitions of non-essential activities, disruption and shutdown of businesses and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. We cannot reasonably predict the extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic will impact our business or operating results, which is highly dependent on inherently uncertain future developments, including the severity of COVID-19 and the actions 29 taken by governments and private businesses in relation to COVID-19 containment. Because our platform is offered as a subscription-based service, the effect of the pandemic may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods, if at all. We have adopted several measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including instructing employees to work from home, making adjustments to our expenses and cash flow to correlate with possible declines in billings and cash collections from customers, re-evaluating our office space needs, shifting certain of our customer events, such as Domopalooza, to online-only webcasts and restricting non-critical business travel by our employees. Historically, a significant portion of field sales and professional services were conducted in person. Currently, as a result of the work and travel restrictions related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, substantially all of our sales and professional services activities are being conducted remotely. These changes are expected to remain in effect in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and will likely extend into future quarters. The impact, if any, of these and any additional operational changes we may implement is uncertain, but changes we have implemented have not affected and are not expected to affect our ability to maintain operations, including financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting and disclosure