Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about: our ability to attract new customers and retain and expand our relationships with existing customers; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit, operating expenses, key metrics, ability to generate cash flow and ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; the anticipated trends, market opportunity, growth rates and challenges in our business and in the business intelligence software market; the efficacy of our sales and marketing efforts; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to respond to and capitalize on rapid technological changes; our expectations and management of future growth; our ability to enter new markets and manage our expansion efforts, particularly internationally; our ability to develop new product features; our ability to attract and retain key employees and qualified technical and sales personnel; our ability to effectively and efficiently protect our brand; our ability to timely scale and adapt our infrastructure; our ability to protect our customers' data and proprietary information; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property and not infringe upon others intellectual property; and our ability to comply with all governmental laws, regulations and other legal obligations. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part I, Item 1A ("Risk Factors"). In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives and plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 4 PART I Item 1. Business Overview Domo is an operating system that powers a business, enabling all employees, from the CEO to front-line workers, to access real-time data and insights and take action from their smartphone. This is possible because Domo digitally connects all the people, data and systems in an organization. Through Domos platform, data from across the business is collected, stored, prepared, organized, analyzed, visualized, and shared. Algorithms and machine learning can be applied to the data that allow alerts to be triggered and actions invited. Users can receive these notifications on any device and immediately act on the invitation, after which the system can write back to the original system of record. Because Domo can digitally connect any organization and empower each of its employees, we believe our market potential is every working person with a mobile device. Because we leverage the power of the cloud, our platform can process extremely large volumes of quantitative and qualitative data while maintaining high performance levels. On a typical business day, our customers in the aggregate typically query several hundred trillion rows from uncached queries. Even with this volume of data, we maintain a subsecond average query response time. In aggregate, the data in Domo can be indexed anonymously. We have made significant investments to build an enterprise-grade platform with the scale, speed and security to support the world's largest organizations, regardless of where they are in their digital transformation journey. In many ways, building Domo was like building seven start-ups in one. We built connectors to connect real-time to all of the data within a company and bring all that data into a warehouse and developed a data engine that is able to manage up to trillions of rows of data. We built visualization tools that enable our users to explore the data on any device and enable them to collaborate on the data in real time. We built our artificial intelligence and machine learning engine that is able to find correlations within the data and invites users to action. To enable our users to develop the applications they wanted on top of this platform, we built an app store with pre-built applications as well as the tools for users to build their own applications. That's why Domo is more than just a business intelligence, data warehouse, data discovery, analytics, collaboration, dashboarding, visualization or reporting tool. These tools and technologies are typically provided by separate vendors today. Domo combines all of them in a single platform that can augment a customer's existing infrastructure with the following: Connectors : Domo offers more than 1,000 powerful, first-class connectors which we define as read/write, API and standards based connectors that are available in the Domo Appstore, as well as a library of very flexible universal connectors that currently power over one hundred thousand Domo datasets, enabling all users, regardless of technical ability, to connect to data across a broad range of sources and facilitate initiation of business processes. These connectors enable data to be continuously synchronized in real time, fostering visibility and interoperability across a broad range of data sources. Data Warehouse : Our data warehouse, Adrenaline, stores massive amounts of data from across the business, organizes that data across many factors or variables and employs a massive number of processors to query that data in parallel, enabling employees across the organization to simultaneously access the same data for their various needs with subsecond response times on average. Domo ETL : Fusion is our data transformation engine that sorts customer data, making it possible for any dataset connected to Domo to be cleansed, combined and prepared for use leveraging Magic ETL, Data Flows and hygiene algorithms. Data Analysis and Visualization : Our Explorer analytics suite allows users to analyze, display, share and interact with data through pixel-perfect visualizations. Explorer is a data discovery tool that seamlessly works on mobile as well as on wall monitors in executive offices or manufacturing facility floors. Collaboration : Buzz is our standalone collaboration and productivity suite that integrates seamlessly with Domo's other features. Chat, sharing, organizational charts, profiles, and project management all help foster an engaged and curious workforce, so that anyone in an organization can participate in improving the business. Artificial Intelligence Algorithms : Domo's Mr. Roboto leverages machine learning algorithms, predictive analytics, and other artificial intelligence technologies to create alerts, detect anomalies, optimize queries, and suggest areas of interest to help people focus on what matters most. Mr. Roboto constantly scans incoming data to identify trends, anomalies and correlations, providing alerts and initiating business processes. 5 Partner Ecosystem : With the Domo Appstore, APIs and developer tool kits, Domo enables an ecosystem of partners to quickly build applications on the platform. We believe this will be a meaningful source of future lead generation as application creation investment thresholds are high. As of January 31, 2019 , we had more than 1,700 organizations as customers, including 447 customers with more than $1 billion in revenue, which we refer to as enterprise customers. For the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , our enterprise customers accounted for 47% , 46% and 45% of our revenue for such periods, respectively. We focus our sales and marketing resources on obtaining customers with over $100 million in revenue, with a particular emphasis on enterprise customers. We employ a land-and-expand business model and typically enter into enterprises within a specific division or for a specific use case. As our users see the value of our platform and user engagement increases, we expand our footprint within the enterprise. Over the year ended January 31, 2019 , our subscription net revenue retention rate, which compares the subscription revenue generated from a cohort of customers that generated subscription revenue at the beginning of the same period in consecutive fiscal years (excluding customers from the cohort who canceled during the initial period), averaged over 100% , 110% and 100% for all customers, enterprise customers and non-enterprise customers, respectively. By comparison, over the year ended January 31, 2018 , our subscription net revenue retention rates averaged over 100%, 115% and 95% for all customers, enterprise customers and non-enterprise customers, respectively. For the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , we had total revenue of $74.5 million , $108.5 million and $142.5 million , respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 46% and 31% , respectively. For the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , our net loss was $183.1 million , $176.6 million and $154.3 million , respectively. The Domo Solution We believe business technology must be as easy-to-use and intuitive as mobile consumer applications, while providing enterprise-grade scalability and security features. Everyone, from a CEO to a front-line employee, benefits from the functionality that Domo provides. Our platform fosters collaboration, efficient decision making, increased organizational productivity, and generates improved business results. The platform also is designed to help IT leaders deliver value rapidly to the business by seamlessly complementing their existing systems and infrastructure and unlocking value from their fragmented data and systems. While developing our platform, we have been focused on four key pillars. All of Your People Our platform enables every type of employee to connect to, analyze, and leverage data from their smartphone. When everyone can use data, the value of the data increases significantly and everyone is equipped with a common set of facts across all levels of an organization. As a result, data-driven knowledge proliferates throughout an organization as more employees become capable of contributing to shared, collaborative analysis. When freed from the constraints of traditional business intelligence tools, these employees tend to not only become increasingly productive, but also feel more connected to the broader organization. All of Your Data in Real Time Our platform provides real-time access to quantitative and qualitative data, including through more than 1,000 powerful first-class connectors as well as a library of very flexible universal connectors that currently power over one hundred thousand Domo datasets. In addition, through Domo Workbench, organizations can connect to proprietary data sources regardless of where those data sources reside within an organization. This comprehensive approach enables every type of employee to design customized, real-time views of data and data trends. For example, a marketer can design a visualization that includes real-time data of the click-through rates of the online advertisements, the impact of regional marketing campaigns, and the benchmarks of his organization's campaigns across the years. Intelligence that Invites Actions Our platform leverages artificial intelligence, including machine learning algorithms and predictive analytics, to continuously power more advanced insights, recommendations and alerts. We thereby enable employees to be aware of what is happening on a real-time basis, and take appropriate action where necessary. As more organizations and users adopt our platform, we have access to more data, and our indices become more powerful, resulting in more effective benchmarking. Our platform, based on ongoing variance analysis, is capable of providing personalized, proactive alerts and recommended actions to every employee and writing back to source applications based on predetermined actions triggered after certain thresholds or behavior has occurred. In the case of a bakery, for example, our platform can alert the owner that she does not have enough flour to meet tomorrows demand and recommend a supply schedule to prevent future stock-outs. 6 Domo Appstore We have prebuilt applications for specific use cases, and our users, including development partners, can build tailored applications to address a wide range of potential use cases, with limited training and no or limited IT involvement required. These applications range from a real-time social index to evaluate an organization's engagement across various social media platforms to a predictive analytics toolkit that allows users to analyze "what if" scenarios and forecast the direction of key business metrics to an aggregator for an organizations relevant mobile application statistics. To date, these applications have been adopted across a broad range of industries. Additionally, through the Domo Appstore, users have the option to make their applications available to all Domo users. This application ecosystem generates a powerful network for our platform as users build, adopt and use additional applications, usage increases within an organization, which enables our platform to deliver even more powerful insights to those users. Through the power of Domos comprehensive cloud- based platform, organizations can finally provide all of their data, to all of their employees, all of the time. Key Benefits of Our Solution Domo is more than just a business intelligence, data connection, data warehouse, data transformation or ETL, data discovery, analytics, collaboration, dashboarding, visualization or reporting tool. These tools and technologies are typically provided by separate vendors today. Domo combines all of them in a single platform and enables truly digitally connected organizations. The Domo platform delivers six core benefits, and from the combination of these six, customers benefit from a seventh, a virtuous cycle of optimization: Executive and Outcome Focused Mobile Solution From the beginning, we targeted CEOs as key users of our platform. That concept has fundamentally influenced every aspect of the Domo platform from architecture to user experience. CEOs have huge demands on their time, are constantly on the move, do not have time or desire to learn complex software, need answers that quickly drive decisions, need to create alignment within their organization, need to focus on the exceptional items that should bubble up in their business instead of turning over every stone to see if something is off, and hunger for as much collaborative and correlative signal as they can get. Our platform was designed to meet each of these needs. Our native mobile application enables all employees, not just CEOs, to effectively manage their businesses and responsibilities using any device. Employees can see current status of business operations and receive automatic alerts for when they need to take action, delivered directly to their smartphone. Anyone can edit and interact with data and share it with colleagues in real time directly from their smartphone. While Domo was designed with mobile users first in mind, it is automatically accessible across laptops, TV screens, monitors, tablets and smartphones, via different browsers and visualization engines, which is a competitive differentiator. Universal Data Model Data Platform and Transformation Domo is changing the way people think about data. Data is no longer a currency only to be banked, but is the fuel that drives the business. Domo puts data to work, all of the data, together in an integrated, robust system, for all of the businesss employees. To accomplish this, Domo created a distributed data platform that was engineered to ingest, process, clean, prepare and make queryable all of a businesss available data, and serve it back with a subsecond average query response time, not just from a couple of databases or a single warehouse, or a few external cloud apps, but from all of the data, including systems that come online outside of ITs influence like the myriad of cloud software providers each department might be leveraging. We believe that all of a businesss quantitative and qualitative data must be brought together, in one system, in order to deliver the types of encompassing views and timely insights todays leaders must have. Our portfolio of connectors and cloud-based data warehouse provides a massively scalable solution to enable businesses to connect to their data systems. Our cloud-based ETL suite allows all of that data to be transformed and prepared together in a universal data format, enabling users to easily incorporate, change or discontinue different data sources without disruption. Our fast query engine searches the data, enabling insights to be generated. Now business leaders can have fully comprehensive views of what is happening, across all departments and across all systems. Digitally Connected Organization Interconnecting and Orchestrating across Disparate Systems Businesses use many separate software systems to facilitate core elements of managing their business. This means there is no natural opportunity to leverage a broader, more holistic view of the state of the business or to take broadly informed actions and decision paths. It is very difficult to create alignment across the disparate organizations that use the siloed systems. This 7 often creates walled gardens of data inside the business and blocks departments and teams from being able to effectively work full life cycle problems with each other. It also cripples the C-suite from being able to truly understand the nature of a problem or opportunity. Our comprehensive, cloud-based platform weaves seven critical platform components together to exploit this opportunity to increase alignment, accuracy and effectiveness of business leaders: data connections, data warehouse, data management, data analysis and visualization, artificial intelligence algorithms, and our partner ecosystem. An action in one system can have its influence measured in another, combined together in the same view, such as when marketing automation affects sales revenue generation, which in turn affects financial performance, to truly understand how best to guide the business. Productivity Fosters Getting Work Done Together Our platform enables all employees to engage with each other with real-time data and business results at the center of the conversation. Employees can easily find others in their organization who access similar data and invite them and others with the appropriate permissions to engage in richer conversations to achieve business results. With Domo, users collaborate where the data lives, increasing everyones productivity and ability to act on the data. Our platform also enables organizations to share their data and collaborate with customers, suppliers and other partners outside of the organization. Additionally, any user can schedule critical insights to be delivered to the right inboxes, ensuring the right stakeholders are being kept up-to-date on relevant developments. Enterprise Security, Scalability and Compliance We have invested significantly to build security features in our platform that have enabled us to expand our presence within the enterprise. Because we connect directly to data sources that hold companies CRM, HCM, ERP and other sensitive data in our system, we must maintain enterprise-grade security standards for data access, privacy and administration. Our security protocols enabled us to attract enterprise customers across a wide array of industries, including many in highly regulated industries such as financial services and healthcare. Our security features, such as customer-controlled encryption key management, provide much needed confidence that the data on our platform is secure. Our native multi-tenant, web-scale, massive parallel processing capabilities and multi-dimensional architecture manage extremely large volumes of data and deliver real-time analysis at scale. On a typical business day, our customers in the aggregate typically query several hundred trillion rows from uncached queries. Even with this volume of data, we maintain a subsecond average query response time. We leverage an organizations existing data systems, meaning IT does not have to re-architect what has already been built and does not have to invest in new infrastructure to implement our platform. We also provide IT departments with centralized governance and administration capabilities. Our platform enables IT departments to not only monitor the health of all data within an organization, but also actively control who has access to that data on a real-time, continuous basis. Our platform provides robust controls down to row level security that enable leaders to tailor data access based on a variety of categories, including role, geography or department. We provide the assurance of leading security and compliance certifications, including those relating to SOC 1, SOC 2 + HITRUST, HIPAA and more. Benchmarks and Applications Ecosystem We built the Domo platform with the explicit goal that it be extended and leveraged by a rich ecosystem of partners, developers, business experts and entrepreneurs. Each of the core pieces of the Domo platform has been engineered from the ground up to be extensible and accessible through APIs and SDKs. We have also created the Domo Appstore, a marketplace for the distribution of additive capabilities and pre-built content from the Domo ecosystem, such as a new data connector, a best-practice dashboard, or a fully functioning custom solution, to extend their Domo experience. Third parties are able to rapidly develop rich applications that leverage the collective power of the Domo platform. Each of the core tenets of the platform are offered as services and functionality used to build the types of products that typically would be expensive and time-consuming to replicate. Virtuous Cycle of Optimization The combination of these six core benefits drives a seventh factor, a virtuous cycle of optimization. A digitally connected organization is able to leverage all of the data, people, systems, behaviors, automation, write-back, predictive analytics, machine learning, natural language processing and workflows to achieve its goals and improve the entire business. Customers get more value from their workforce, and get more value from their data. We believe this is only the beginning; the network effect of digitizing complex workflows, automating well known outcomes, suggesting courses of action, unlocking crowd wisdom effects within the business and anomaly detection across the entire organization will continue to improve as more of an organization's people, data and systems are connected to the Domo platform. 8 Competitive Strengths Our key competitive strengths include: Mobile Functionality. We designed Domo with mobile functionality front of mind. Domos native mobile applications unlock users ability to access data and collaborate in real time, from anywhere. When data is in Domo, it is immediately available for consumption on smartphones and other mobile devices without requiring separate versions or visualizations. Functionality That Can Be Used by Everyone. Employees can easily connect to relevant data sources, create powerful data transformations, analyze data, build reports and applications, configure alerts, and collaborate through our desktop or mobile application. Employees without technical expertise can use all of the features of our platform without involving a business analyst. Easy to Adopt. Employees can begin using our platform within minutes, without the need for heavy IT involvement to procure and implement. We offer a self-service subscription, as well as a free trial, through our website, in addition to traditional inside and field sales models for broad company deployments. Scale . Domo has been natively built on a cloud-based architecture that is capable of massive scale. The Domo data warehouse and our connector strategy allows our platform to connect, house and make accessible all of the data within an organization and have a system that can make recommendations. Proven Economic Value. The comprehensive capabilities of our solution enable organizations to benefit from cost savings that result from their ability to remove previously deployed, limited systems. Also, because our solution enables employees to spend less time tracking down data or preparing presentations for meetings, employees are able to dedicate more time to value added activities. As a result, in addition to cost savings, organizations that deploy our solution are often able to generate incremental revenue. Proven Enterprise Readiness. We have invested significantly to broaden our platform capabilities and enhance security and scalability requirements for the enterprise. Our enterprise customer base has grown from 36 as of January 31, 2014, to 447 as of January 31, 2019 , representing a compound annual growth rate, or CAGR, of 66% . We are investing in our field sales team to further increase our focus on attracting new enterprise customers and expanding our footprint within our current enterprise customers. Continuous Product Innovation. From inception through January 31, 2019 , we have invested $395.0 million in research and development to create our comprehensive platform. These investments allowed us to create more than 1,000 first-class connectors as well as a library of very flexible universal connectors that currently power over one hundred thousand Domo datasets, which enable everyone to connect and use all of the data within their organization in real time, through our data explorer and ETL engine. We invested in creating our native mobile application, which empowers all employees to effectively manage their responsibilities using their mobile device. We also invested in developing collaboration capabilities, resulting in our solution being able to aggregate all collaboration activity within an organization in a context-sensitive, easily navigable view. These investments have also enabled us to build a comprehensive cloud-based platform with enterprise-grade features. More recently, these investments have allowed us to develop machine learning algorithms that invite all employees to action, based on the real-time data that is accessible within our platform. We developed the Domo Appstore on top of that, which offers hundreds of applications, developed internally and by an open ecosystem of partners, providing expertise across a variety of industries. Developer tools and programmatic APIs enable the rapid development and delivery of custom apps leveraging the Domo platform and services. In many ways, building Domo was like building seven start-ups at once. Additionally, we believe that our significant investments in research and development, which were required to build an operating system that powers a business, will provide tremendous leverage in our financial model as our business continues to scale. Strong Industry Recognition. Our brand is synonymous with the next generation of cloud-native, mobile-first data solutions. We have attracted and retained top talent in our industry and have become a top choice for organizations looking for better ways to use data to run their businesses. We have received multiple innovation awards and top-ranked recognition for ease-of-use and business value based on customer-based research from organizations such as Dresner Advisory Services, Gartner Research and Ventana Research. We've also been recognized with workplace and growth awards including the Deloitte Technology Fast 500, Forbes Cloud 100, Inc. 500 and Inc. 5000, CNBC Disruptor 50, Great Places to Work, Utah Business Best Places to Work (7 consecutive years) as well and Glassdoor Best Places to Work 2016. Additionally, our annual conference, Domopalooza, is renowned within the industry and attracts thousands of passionate users each year. 9 Expanding Third Party Ecosystem with Strong Network Effects. We have developed pre-built applications for specific use cases and provide everyone with the necessary tools to build applications that run on our platform. These applications can be tailored to the specific needs of a specific role, organization or industry and leverage all the benefits of our solution to enable everyone to improve decision making, business outcomes and financial results. Once built, users can share these applications within their organization, but can also elect to open the application to all our users, across industries and geographies. Growth Strategies Key components of our growth strategy include: Increasing Our Overall Customer Base. The market for our platform is large and underpenetrated, as any organization of any size and in any industry is a potential customer of Domo. We believe there is substantial opportunity to add additional customers both in the United States and internationally as the need for all employees to access actionable, real-time data continues to drive market adoption of our platform. We are committed to further penetrating international markets and are investing in markets such as Japan, Asia Pacific and EMEA. Accelerate Expansion within Existing Customers. We employ a land-and-expand business model and typically enter into enterprises either within a specific division or for a specific use case. As our users see the value of our platform and user engagement increases, we expand our footprint within the enterprise. We are focused on helping our users quickly realize the value of our platform. We have substantial growth potential within our existing customer base. We will continue to focus on showcasing the value of our platform to expand our footprint within our existing customers. Extend Platform Functionality and Value Proposition. Our goal is to continue to enhance and broaden the capabilities of our platform to address our users evolving needs. To that end, we plan to continue to invest in enhancing the ease of use and self-service capabilities, scalability, security and performance of our platform and expanding the IoT, artificial intelligence and data management functionality of our platform. We will also continue to invest in additional features and capabilities. Expand the Domo Ecosystem. The ecosystem for our platform includes customer influencers, which share valuable best practices for and serve as proof points for other customers, strategic partners, which efficiently expand our reach, and third party developers that create customized applications tailored for specific customer use cases. We will continue to invest in establishing and strengthening these relationships to broaden this ecosystem. Leverage the Data. The Domo platform is uniquely positioned to generate performance benchmarks and indices across a wide array of organizations and disciplines, and in time we plan to capitalize on that position to attract additional customers and broaden and deepen our relationships with them. Although no customer will have access to the data of another, given that customers bring their data into the same cloud-based platform, we could enable performance comparisons based on index derived from similarly-situated organizations. Our Technology Our solution is comprised of seven core elements: connectors; data warehouse and fast query engine; Domo ETL; data analysis and visualization tools; collaboration tools; artificial intelligence algorithms; and apps and partner ecosystem. These core elements were developed with two foundational considerations in mind: accessibility for all users, with a heavy emphasis on mobile-first functionality; and 10 access, and applicability to business of all sizes, including those requiring enterprise-grade governance and security. Connectors The foundation of our technology is the ability to connect all of an organizations relevant business data and then combine, cleanse and transform that data into formats that can be easily visualized and analyzed. Our platform provides real-time access to data through a broad and flexible set of connection options, including through more than 1,000 first-class connectors, which we define as read/write, API and standards based connectors that are available in the Domo Appstore, as well as a library of very flexible universal connectors that currently power over one hundred thousand Domo datasets. We also provide users an intuitive web-based toolkit, Connector Dev Studio, which allows users to build their own connectors. Our platform allows organizations to integrate directly with almost any source of data required to answer key business questions. Whether the necessary data is located in other third party systems, on-premise data stores, or even local machines, Domo provides easy access across all platforms with no coding necessary in most cases. Since Domo has built and maintains a large library of connectors, organizations no longer need to directly deal with the confusing and constantly changing ecosystem. Typically, all that is necessary are the security credentials required to access the data. Additionally, the cloud-based nature of Domo means that not only is it simple for an organization to import data, but such data will also be continually imported and updated creating a living, real-time dataset with no hardware investment by the customer. For organizations with on-premises data solutions, or bespoke or legacy applications, we have developed Workbench, our secure data acquisition tool designed to easily and securely connect on-premises data to our platform. We thereby enable organizations to connect to real-time proprietary data sources regardless of where those data sources sit within the organization. QuickStart Apps help users load relevant data into a usable format with the click of a button. With a growing library of popular data sources that draw from years of role and industry experience, Domo guides users on what KPIs they should be measuring from the day they connect. Data Warehouse and Fast Query Engine Adrenaline, the Domo data warehouse, stores massive amounts of data connected from across the business, enabling anyone to quickly access the data they need. After data has been imported into Domo, it is important that it is safe, secure, and available. Adrenaline uses industry-leading technologies to ensure that customer data is secure and encrypted while stored in the system. It is also stored in redundant systems to provide a safe and reliable retrieval. In the case of frequently changing, or updated data, Domo additionally stores historical versions of past data available for catastrophic recovery. Availability of the data is handled through Domos fast query layer. All data is prepared and available for querying through this feature. Adrenaline organizes the data across any number of factors or variables and employs a massive number of processors to query that data in parallel. This service supports queries while building simple cards as well as complex, custom queries and dataset joins on datasets comprised of billions of records. Our fast query layer eliminates the need for IT to perform time-consuming data summarizations or other complex processes in order to maintain high query performance. On top of the flexibility, it provides subsecond average query response time, enabling real-time consumption of information. The speed and flexibility at this layer differentiate between Domo from traditional solutions offered by our competitors. Domo ETL: Data Transformation Our self-service ETL toolset, Fusion, enables users to easily join, aggregate and cleanse data from multiple sources. Unlike some solutions that require separate tools to extract, transform and load, or ETL, data, Fusion permits users of all skill levels to clean and combine data within our platform. With an intuitive, drag-and-drop interface, users with little or no expertise can easily combine all their data and transform it into a format that can be easily manipulated, visualized and analyzed. For data analysts, our platform includes SQL-based dataflows, which allow more technical users to combine and transform raw data sources for other users. Fusion also includes a variety of machine learning algorithm and predictive analytics tools to allow everyone to add intelligence to any dataset, enabling a range of data science analysis, including: cluster analysis to perform cohort analysis and discover relationships to understand complex data; predictive models built on a suite of regression algorithms to better understand core drivers and influencers of key business metrics; 11 forecasting models using common forecasting methods; time-series, multivariate, parametric and non-parametric algorithms to reveal abnormal or interesting data in any dataset; and intelligent models built on machine learning algorithms. All algorithms can be implemented using a simple wizard for configuration. Real-time Analysis and Visualization Our Explorer analytics suite, consisting of Domo Analyzer, Domo Pages and Collections, Domo Stories, Publication Groups and Domo Everywhere, allows users to analyze, display, share and interact with data through pixel-perfect visualizations. Domo Analyzer allows users to analyze, display, share and interact with data across mobile devices and personal computers. Domo Analyzer combines an intuitive simplicity that allows business users to find quick insights and advanced capabilities analysts expect. Analyzer allows users to create their own workspace: over 300 chart types and a robust mapping engine that enable users to immediately visualize area-specific data, even suggesting charts based on the data input so users never start with a blank slate; the ability to see and manipulate the data in all columns that are applied to charts, along with any other unused columns that should be shown; out-of-the-box visualizations that make it easy to review numerous time periods to see trends and comparisons; pre-defined filters for any visualization, making it easy for viewers to explore the data and see results in specific areas; the ability to change options, colors, series, and even chart types on the fly and get instant feedback; and tools to allow users to verify that data is flowing correctly and on time. Domo Pages and Collections allow everyone to consume and organize data in ways that are meaningful and personalized to them. Its easy to drag-and-drop, re-size and group reports, which we refer to as cards, into collections, and build slideshows to share both internally or externally. Domo Stories allows users to combine cards, text, and images in a dashboard to tell a powerful story about the data. Rather than simply arranging cards on a page, users can customize page layouts to emphasize certain points and guide other users through analysis of the data. Other sharing tools include Publication Groups, which enable everyone to securely share filtered views of data with other individuals and groups, send a single card or a slideshow of cards through scheduled emails, enabling everyone to share valuable information with teams or external stakeholders. Domo Everywhere is a set of embedded analytics tools that enable organizations to securely share data with customers, partners and vendors, without having to recreate new or special datasets. Content can be shared in portals, or web properties or even inside applications. Once embedded, any parameters applied to a card can be reflected in the embedded report. In addition, user access can be controlled by using Single Sign On and personal data permissions, or PDPs, to pass parameters back to Domo. Real-time Collaboration Domo connects all employees across an organization, while also allowing everyone to customize and create personalized experiences to help them learn and invite action on those items that are uniquely important to them. Our Org Explorer and Profiles features bring a social component and transparency to an organization, allowing all employees to see other employees role within the organization, find their contact information and learn how they contribute to the organization. Everyone can see what cards their coworkers are following, and then follow the same information, or share their own data with them proactively. 12 Once connected with the right people, Buzz aggregates all collaboration activity, in a single context-sensitive, easily navigable view. This allows an entire organization to share and discuss data in real time, to make better decisions more quickly. With Buzz, users can: chat with individuals and teams around real-time data through both public and private channels and direct messages; share alerts with other users; and search for and share attachments with an easy-to-use drag-and-drop interface. Other features to promote collaboration are included throughout our platform, including: Report Scheduler, which allows users to schedule delivery of a card or page to anyone; Snapshot Annotation, which allows users to call out a specific spike or trends in data, annotate on any card to highlight it for others and initiate a conversation from any device; Projects and Tasks, which help users quickly take action with simple planning and assignment tools, including creating a task directly from a Buzz thread; and Alerts, which prompt timely collaboration and action. Artificial Intelligence Algorithms Through Mr. Roboto, which leverages machine learning algorithms, artificial intelligence and predictive analytics, Domo creates alerts, detects anomalies, optimizes queries, and suggests areas of interest to help people focus on what matters most. We are also developing additional artificial intelligence capabilities to enable users to develop benchmarks and indexes based on data in the Domo platform, as well as automatic write back to other systems. Domo was designed and built from the ground up to deliberately and seamlessly combine all the traditional disparate technologies into a single system. This seamless combination allows our customers to apply advanced analytics and machine learning to their data for a variety of uses, including: modeling access patterns to allow for intelligent alerts that inform users of what is happening with both their data and their organization even if the user didnt explicitly ask for it; and analyzing popular consumption paths to allow for customized recommendations for data, reports, and even conversations that users may find interesting or may have missed. Partner Ecosystem: App Development Platform and Appstore The Domo Appstore offers hundreds of apps, developed internally and by an open ecosystem of partners, providing expertise across a variety of industries. Developer tools and programmatic APIs enable the rapid development and delivery of custom apps leveraging the Domo platform and services. Domos developer portal provides all of the tools and documentation needed to build custom apps leveraging our platform. Our App Design Studio lets non-technical users harness the power of Adobe Illustrator to build real-time infographics, and our App Dev Studio allows users to gain ultimate flexibility and develop customer visualizations using HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and just about any web technology. Underlying our technology approach are two key considerations: accessibility for all users, which includes a heavy emphasis on mobile; and applicability to business of all sizes, requiring enterprise-grade governance. Mobile-First Functionality Domos native mobile applications for iOS and Android, and also mobile web browsers, enable employees to effectively manage their responsibilities using their mobile device. Domo Mobile unlocks the ability for users to access their data and collaborate with their teams in real time, from anywhere. 13 Build Once and Done . When data is loaded or content created in Domo, it is immediately available for consumption on mobile devices, tablets, and more. There is no need to maintain separate mobile versions of visualizations. Powerful Visualization Exploration . Domos powerful page filters tool is also available on mobile. Whether its an executive walking into a retail store or a manufacturing manager looking at a specific product line, individuals can quickly filter a page to find the story they are interested in. Collaborate on the Go . Just because users are out of the office doesnt mean they cant collaborate with their team around business. All the benefits of Buzz, Domos powerful chat and collaboration platform, are available on any mobile device. Share Key Metrics Internally and Externally . Data owners can share important information with internal or external collaborators while limiting their access to sensitive or irrelevant data. Snapshot Annotations also help you make visuals clearer to your audience on mobile devices. Browse Your Organization . As a platform for business management, understanding organizational structure is key. With Domo, an organization's contact list and organizational chart are on any mobile device, for access to the people in the organization from anywhere, anytime. Data Management, Governance, Security and Access Control Domo is designed to meet the enterprise security, compliance and privacy requirements of our customers, particularly in highly regulated industries, such as financial services, government, health care, pharmaceuticals, energy and technology. In addition to advanced internal security controls, Domo provides extensive self-service features that enable administrators to stay in control of and have full transparency into data at all times. These features include access management, data governance and logging and monitoring tools. Access Management Creating users and granting access rights in Domo is the first layer in maintaining information security. PDPs allow users to create robust entitlement policies that govern access to specific data, increasing data usage while simultaneously helping to ensure that sensitive or irrelevant information remains secure. Pre-defined security profile options are included to allow organizations to easily deploy our platform. Each profile contains clearly defined access privileges, which can be turned on or off by default, and privileges and roles can be fully tailored to align with an organizations unique policy. Logging and Monitoring Administrators can easily monitor global activity across Domo with our Activity Logs console. Authorized users can quickly access usage metrics like login attempts, card views, card creation and card edits. The console also provides the times those events took place and by which user. Admins can filter and sort this data, and export to an Excel spreadsheet or CSV file. Data Governance Once data is connected to Domo, the platform provides capabilities and tools to manage it across its lifecycle. The Domo Data Warehouse is a dynamic 3D management console that enables IT professionals to interact with and curate every data source in Domo. Administrators can see which data sources are updating, identify potential problems, understand existing data relationships, and gauge the size of each data source, all in one visually engaging platform. Domo Bring Your Own Key, or BYOK, provides the ability to rotate encryption keys numerous times a day. Through this user-controlled encryption, organizations can revoke encryption keys at any time, nullifying all data in the Domo platform and preventing access to their sensitive customer data. Customers As of January 31, 2019 , we had over 1,700 customers. We have customers in a wide variety of industries, geographies, with 77% of our revenue for the year ended January 31, 2019 derived from customers in the United States, and sizes, ranging from small organizations to large enterprises. We define a customer at the end of any particular quarter as an entity that generated revenue greater than $2,500 during that quarter. In situations where an organization has multiple subsidiaries or divisions, each entity that is invoiced at a separate billing address is treated as a separate customer. In cases where customers purchase through a reseller, each end customer is counted separately. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , no single 14 customer represented more than 10% of our revenue, nor did any single organization when accounting for multiple subsidiaries or divisions which may have been invoiced separately. We have invested in platform capabilities and online support resources that allow our customers to expand the use of our platform in a self-guided manner. Our professional services, customer support and customer success functions also support our sales force by helping customers to successfully deploy our platform and implement additional use cases. We work closely with our customers to drive increased engagement with our platform by identifying new use cases through our customer success teams, as well as in-platform, self-guided experiences. We actively engage with our customers to assess whether they are satisfied and fully realizing the benefits of our platform. While these efforts often require a substantial commitment and upfront costs, we believe our investment in product, customer support, customer success and professional services will create opportunities to expand our customer relationships over time. Sales and Marketing We offer our platform to our customers as a subscription-based service. Subscription fees are based on the number of users and the tier of package deployed. Business leaders and managers are typically the initial subscribers to our platform, deploying it for a specific use case or department. Over time, as customers recognize the value of our platform, we increasingly engage with CIOs and other executives to facilitate broad enterprise adoption. A majority of our customers subscribe to our services through one-year contracts, but recently a growing percentage of new and existing customers have entered into multi-year contracts. In the year ended January 31, 2019 , 43% of our new customers entered into multi-year contracts compared to 38% and 11% in the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. As of January 31, 2019 , 42% of all customers were under multi-year contracts and 58% of all customers were under one-year contracts. By comparison, 32% of all customers were under multi-year contracts and 68% of all customers were under one-year contracts as of January 31, 2018 . This transition to a higher percentage of multi-year contracts, among both new and existing customers, has enhanced the predictability of our subscription revenue. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance. Our one-year and multi-year contracts generally automatically renew for additional one-year terms, with each party having the option to elect not to renew, and generally may not be cancelled absent material breach by us or the customer. We primarily generate sales through our direct sales team, which includes both inside sales personnel focused on customers with under $1 billion in revenue and field sales to target enterprise customers with revenues over $1 billion. All sales personnel focus on attracting new customers as well as expanding usage within our existing customer base. We also make it easy for users and organizations to sign up for free trials on our website, which can be converted to paid subscriptions by the user. We generate customer leads, accelerate sales opportunities and build brand awareness through our marketing programs. Our marketing programs target C-level, and senior line of business leaders spanning all functional areas of a business, including sales, marketing, finance, human resources and information technology. We also host Domopalooza, our annual user conference for current customers and prospects. We have also developed go-to-market partnerships with a number of key technology, system integrator and consultant partners both domestically and internationally to help customers and potential customers validate our solutions and provide introductions to potential customers, and in some cases to resell or provide professional services related to our platform. We anticipate that we will continue to develop a select number of third-party relationships to help grow our business. Competition Historically, software companies have not offered solutions that meet the needs of an organization with respect to providing real-time intelligence on business operations to all users, from the CEO to the frontline. In many cases, organizations do not have any solution or otherwise rely on manual business processes such as spreadsheets and reports, or combinations of single solution software. Certain features of our platform compete with products offered by various companies including those that fall into the following categories: large software companies, including suppliers of traditional business intelligence products that provide one or more capabilities that are competitive with our products, such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP AG and IBM; business analytics software companies, such as Tableau Software, Inc., Qlik Technologies, Looker Data Services, Inc., Sisense, Inc., and Tibco Software, Inc.; and SaaS-based products or cloud-based analytics providers such as salesforce.com, Inc. and Infor, Inc. 15 We believe that the principal competitive factors in our markets include the following: user-centric design; ease of adoption and use; features and platform experience; enterprise-grade performance, including scalability, reliability and query response time; brand; security, governance and privacy; accessibility across mobile devices, operating systems, and applications; breadth of data source connectivity through third-party integration; customer support; continued innovation; and pricing. We believe that we compete effectively on each of the factors listed above; however, we expect competition to intensify in the future. It is possible that the large software vendors who currently do not have a competitive offering, some of which operate in adjacent product categories today, may in the future bring such a solution to market through product development, acquisitions or other means. In addition, several of our competitors have greater name recognition, much longer operating histories, more and better-established customer relationships, larger sales forces, larger marketing and software development budgets and significantly greater resources than we do. Therefore, it is possible that we may not compete favorably with respect to certain of the foregoing factors. Data Center Operations We rely heavily on data centers and other technologies and services provided by third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business. We serve our customers from multiple data centers in the following geographies: North America, Western Europe, and Australia. The data centers we use are designed to host mission-critical computer systems with fully redundant subsystems and compartmentalized security zones. Our platform runs within third-party data centers. As of January 31, 2019 , we used Amazon Web Services, or AWS, data center facilities located in Western Europe, North America and Australia. We committed to spend an aggregate of $60.0 million between April 2017 and March 2020 pursuant to our agreement with AWS. If we fail to meet the minimum purchase commitment during any year, we are required to pay the difference. AWS may terminate the agreement upon written notice to us for cause, including any material breach by us. We also use Microsoft Azure data centers in the United States to host customer data and partner with a third-party provider to maintain Company owned physical servers at an Equinix data center in the United States. We and our third party data center providers maintain a formal and comprehensive security program designed to ensure the security and integrity of customer data, protect against security threats or data breaches, and prevent unauthorized access to the data of our customers. We and our third party data center providers strictly regulate and limit all access to on-demand servers and networks at our production and remote backup facilities. We apply a wide variety of strategies to achieve better than 99.9% systems availability for our subscription services, excluding scheduled maintenance. Our systems are continually monitored for any signs of problems, and we strive to take preemptive action when necessary. Our data center facilities and the third party data centers employ advanced measures designed to ensure physical integrity, including redundant power and cooling systems, and advanced fire and flood prevention. Research and Development We focus our efforts on anticipating customer demand to remain competitive in the marketplace. Our ability to compete depends in large part on our continuous commitment to research and development and our ability to introduce new platform enhancements, applications, technologies, features and capabilities in a timely manner. Our research and development organization is responsible for design, development, testing, release and maintenance. Our efforts are focused on developing 16 new platform enhancements, use cases, and features and further enhancing the functionality, reliability, performance and flexibility of existing solutions. Research and development expenses were $76.2 million , $78.3 million and $75.7 million for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively. Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other intellectual property laws, contractual arrangements, such as assignment, confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements, and confidentiality procedures and technical measures to gain rights to and protect the technology and intellectual property used in our business. We actively pursue registration of our trademarks and service marks in the United States and abroad. As of January 31, 2019 , we owned 89 issued U.S. patents and 39 pending U.S. patent applications. We also owned five patents in the People's Republic of China, one patent in Australia, one patent in Canada and one patent in Japan. The issued U.S. patents that we own are expected to expire between September 2020 and September 2035. We have sole ownership of all of our U.S. patents and pending U.S. patent applications. Our applications use open source software. Open source software is made available to the general public in source code form for use, modification and redistribution on an as-is basis under the terms of a non-negotiable license. We also rely on other technology that we license from third parties. Though such third-party technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we believe that alternative technology would be available to us. Our policy is to require employees and independent contractors to sign agreements assigning to us any inventions, trade secrets, works of authorship, and other technology and intellectual property created by them on our behalf and agreeing to protect our confidential information, and all of our key employees and independent contractors have done so. In addition, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our vendors and customers. We also control and monitor access to our software, source code and other proprietary information. Regulatory Matters Data privacy, information security and data protection with respect to the collection, storage, and other processing of personal data continue to be focuses of worldwide legislation and regulation. We are subject to data privacy, data protection and information security regulation by data protection authorities in the United States (including the states in which we conduct our business) and in other countries where we conduct our business. These regulations include laws requiring holders of personal data to maintain safeguards and to take certain actions in response to a data breach. In the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, requires comprehensive information privacy and security protections for natural persons with respect to personal data collected about them. We post on our website our privacy policies and practices concerning the processing, use and disclosure of personal data, and certify adherence to and compliance with the U.S. Department of Commerces Privacy Shield Principles and the EU-U.S. and Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield Frameworks. Our publication of our Privacy Shield certification, our privacy policy, and other statements we publish regarding privacy, data protection and information security may subject us to potential governmental action if they are found to be deceptive or misrepresentative of our practices or in violation of applicable privacy law. We also may be bound from time to time by contractual obligations, including model contract provisions approved by the European Commission, that impose additional restrictions on our handling of personal data. The legal environment of internet-based businesses is evolving rapidly in the United States, the European Union and elsewhere. The manner in which existing laws and regulations are applied in this environment, and how they will relate to our business in particular, both in the United States and internationally, is often unclear. For example, we sometimes cannot be certain which laws will be deemed applicable to us given the global nature of our business, including with respect to such topics as data privacy and security, pricing, advertising, taxation, content regulation, and intellectual property ownership and infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In particular, the various privacy, data protection and data security legal obligations that apply to us may evolve in a manner that relates to our practices or the features of our applications or platform, and we may need to take additional measures to comply with such changes in legal obligations and to maintain and improve our information security posture in an effort to avoid information security incidents or breaches affecting personal data or other sensitive or proprietary information. Data Security Domo is designed to meet the enterprise security, compliance and privacy requirements of our customers, particularly in highly regulated industries, such as financial services, health care, pharmaceuticals, energy and technology. Our architecture is 17 designed to allow customers to maintain control of their data through various means including: multiple logical and physical security layers; least privilege and separation of duties access model; threat assessments of each new feature; transport layer encryption and encryption at rest that allows customers to manage their own encryption keys using Domos Bring Your Own Key, or BYOK; and extensive logging and monitoring of network, system and application events. We voluntarily engage independent third-party security auditors to test our systems and controls at least annually against several widely recognized security standards and regulations. We have completed a SOC 1 and SOC 2 + HITRUST Common Security Framework, or CSF, examination. Service Organization Controls, or SOC, are standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for reporting on internal control environments implemented within an organization. Our datacenter facilities and services providers also regularly undergo ISO 27001 or SOC 1 or SOC 2 audits and numerous other audits to verify their security practices. We are also in the process of completing the ISO 27001 Information Security Management Standard Certification. The ISO 27001 security standard specifies the requirements for establishing, implementing, operating, monitoring, reviewing, maintaining and improving a documented Information Security Management System within the context of the organizations overall business risks. This standard addresses confidentiality, access control, vulnerability and risk assessment. We are also in the process of completing the ISO/IEC 27018 certification. ISO 27018 establishes commonly accepted control objectives, controls and guidelines for implementing measures to protect personal information in accordance with the privacy principles in ISO/IEC 29100 for a cloud computing environment. We complete the two industry-leading information security questionnaires. This includes the Shared Assessments Standardized Information Gathering, or SIG, questionnaire, as well as the Cloud Security Alliance Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire, or CSA CAIQ. The SIG is composed of approximately 1,400 security questions spanning 17 domains. The CSA CAIQ is a set of security questions focused on cloud security controls, and it is mapped to numerous industry programs and standards including ISO 27001, NIST SP 800-53, COBIT, amongst others. Both of these information security industry questionnaires assist organizations in evaluating a cloud providers operations and processes. Domo supports HIPAA and HITECH compliance. We sign business associate agreements with our customers who require them in support of compliance with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH. We also offer a HIPAA assessment report performed by an independent third party. Employees As of January 31, 2019 , we had 761 employees, of which 634 work in the United States. None of our employees are represented by a labor union, and we believe our employee relations are good. Corporate Information We were originally incorporated in September 2010 under the corporate name Shacho, Inc. in Delaware and, in December 2011, we reincorporated in Delaware as Domo, Inc. Our principal executive offices are loc ated at 772 East Utah Valley Drive, American Fork, UT 84003, and our telephone number is (801) 899-1000. Our website address is www.domo.com. Information cont ained on, or that can be accessed through, our website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Available Information The following filings are available through our investor relations website after we file them with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"): Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and our Proxy Statement for our annual meeting of stockholders. These filings are also available for download free of charge on our investor relations website. Our investor relations website is located at ir.domo.com. The SEC also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy statements and other information about issuers, like us, that file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is http://www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, and press and earnings releases as part of our investor relations website. Further corporate governance information, including our corporate governance guidelines and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading "Governance." The contents of our websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with the SEC, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 18 Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, including the section of this report captioned Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our financial statements and related notes. If any of the events described in the following risk factors or the risks described elsewhere in this report occurs, our business, operating results and financial condition could be seriously harmed. This report also contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of factors that are described below and elsewhere in this report. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have a history of losses, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We incurred net losses of $183.1 million , $176.6 million and $154.3 million for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively, and had an accumulated deficit of $912.1 million at January 31, 2019 . We may not be able to generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future and we expect costs to increase in future periods as we expend substantial financial and other resources on, among other things: sales and marketing, including a continued expansion of our direct sales organization, which will require time before these investments generate sales results; technology and data center infrastructure, enhancements to cloud architecture, improved disaster recovery protection, increasing data security, compliance and operations expenses; data center costs as customers increase the amount of data that is available to our platform and the number of users on our platform; other software development, including enhancements and modifications related to our platform; international expansion in an effort to increase our customer base and sales; general and administration, including significantly increasing expenses in accounting and legal related to the increase in the sophistication and resources required for public company compliance and other work arising from the growth and maturity of the company; competing with other companies, custom development efforts and open source initiatives that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the markets in which we compete; maintaining high customer satisfaction and ensuring quality and timely releases of platform enhancements and applications; developing our indirect sales channels and strategic partner network; maintaining the quality of our cloud and data center infrastructure to minimize latency when using our platform; increasing market awareness of our platform and enhancing our brand; maintaining compliance with applicable governmental regulations and other legal obligations, including those related to intellectual property and international sales; and attracting and retaining top talent in a competitive market. These expenditures may not result in additional revenue or the growth of our business. If we fail to continue to grow revenue or to achieve or sustain profitability, the market price of our Class B common stock could be adversely affected. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects and future operating results. We were incorporated in 2010 and publicly announced our platform in 2015. Our limited operating history makes our ability to forecast future operating results difficult and subjects us to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan and model future growth. Revenue grew 46% in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 compared to the prior year; however, revenue grew 19 only 31% in the year ended January 31, 2019 compared to the prior year, and historical revenue growth is not necessarily indicative of future performance. Our revenue growth rate is expected to decline in future periods due to a number of reasons, which may include the maturation of our business, increase in overall revenue over time, slowing demand for our platform, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of the markets in which we compete, or if we fail, for any reason, to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities, a decrease in our renewal rates, or a decline in upsells. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries, such as determining appropriate investments of our limited resources, market adoption of our platform, competition, acquiring and retaining customers, hiring, integrating, training and retaining skilled personnel (including sales personnel), developing new platform enhancements and applications, determining prices and contract terms, improving our internal controls and unforeseen expenses and challenges in forecasting accuracy. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our prospects, operating results and business could be adversely affected. We have been growing and expect to continue to invest in our growth for the foreseeable future. If we fail to manage this growth effectively, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We intend to continue to grow our business. For example, we plan to continue to increase our headcount, particularly in our sales group. If we cannot adequately train these new employees, including our direct sales force, or if these new employees are not as productive as quickly as we would like, sales may decrease or customers may lose confidence in the knowledge and capability of our employees. In addition, we intend to make direct investments to continue our international expansion efforts. We must successfully manage growth to achieve our objectives. Although our business has experienced significant growth in the past, we cannot provide any assurance that our business will continue to grow at any particular rate, or at all. Our ability to effectively manage the growth of our business will depend on a number of factors, including our ability to do the following: effectively recruit, integrate, train and motivate new employees and make them productive, including our direct sales force, while retaining existing employees, maintaining the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture and effectively executing our business plan; attract new customers, and retain and increase usage by existing customers; recruit and successfully leverage channel partners and app developers; successfully enhance our platform; continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls; protect and further develop strategic assets, including intellectual property rights; and manage market expectations and other challenges associated with operating as a public company. These activities will require significant financial resources and allocation of valuable management and employee resources, and growth will continue to place significant demands on management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Our future financial performance and ability to execute our business plan will depend, in part, on our ability to effectively manage any future growth. There are no guarantees we will be able to do so. In particular, any failure to successfully implement systems enhancements and improvements will likely negatively impact our ability to manage our expected growth, ensure uninterrupted operation of key business systems and comply with the rules and regulations that are applicable to public reporting companies. Moreover, if we do not effectively manage the growth of our business and operations, the quality of our platform could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand, operating results and business. Our ability to raise capital in the future may be limited, and if we fail to raise capital when needed in the future, we could be prevented from growing or could be forced to delay or eliminate product development efforts or other operations. Our business and operations may consume resources faster than we anticipate. We have incurred cumulative and recurring losses from operations since inception and had an accumulated deficit of $912.1 million as of January 31, 2019 . We have also experienced negative cash flows from operating activities since inception, including cash used in operating activities of $144.1 million , $148.7 million and $131.4 million for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively. As of January 31, 2019 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $177.0 million and no amounts available to draw under our credit facility. 20 We may need to raise additional funds to invest in growth opportunities, to continue product development and sales and marketing efforts, and for other purposes. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations, invest in future growth opportunities, or continue operations at anticipated levels, which could harm our business and operating results. In addition, current and future debt instruments may impose restrictions on our ability to dispose of property, make changes in our business, engage in mergers or acquisitions, incur additional indebtedness, and make investments and distributions. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity securities, stockholders will experience dilution, and the new equity securities could have rights senior to those of our common stock. Because our decision to issue securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any such future offerings. As a result, stockholders bear the risk that future securities offerings reduce the market price of our Class B common stock and dilute their interest. We face intense competition, and we may not be able to compete effectively, which could reduce demand for our platform and adversely affect our business, growth, revenue and market share. The market for our platform is intensely and increasingly competitive and subject to rapidly changing technology and evolving standards. In addition, many companies in our target market are offering, or may soon offer, products and services that may compete with our platform. Furthermore, many potential customers have made significant investments in legacy software systems and may be unwilling to invest in new solutions. Our current primary competitors generally fall into the following categories: large software companies, including suppliers of traditional business intelligence products that provide one or more capabilities that are competitive with our products, such as Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, SAP AG and IBM; business analytics software companies, such as Tableau Software, Inc., Qlik Technologies, Looker Data Services, Inc., Sisense, Inc., and Tibco Software, Inc.; and SaaS-based products or cloud-based analytics providers such as salesforce.com, Inc. and Infor, Inc. We expect competition to increase as other established and emerging companies enter the markets in which we compete, as customer requirements evolve and as new products and technologies are introduced. Many competitors, particularly the large software companies named above, have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, research and development, marketing, distribution, professional services or other resources and greater name recognition than we do. In addition, many competitors have strong relationships with current and potential customers, channel partners and development partners and extensive knowledge of markets in which we compete. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, for example by devoting greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we do. Moreover, many of these competitors may bundle their data management and analytics products into larger deals or maintenance renewals, often at significant discounts or at no charge. Increased competition may lead to price cuts, alternative pricing structures or the introduction of products available for free or a nominal price, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margins, longer sales cycles and loss of market share. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed if we fail to meet these competitive pressures. Even if we are successful in acquiring and retaining customers, those customers may continue to use our competitors' products in addition to our products. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, both within and outside of our control. Some of these factors include ease and speed of platform deployment and use, accessibility across mobile devices, operating systems, and applications, discovery and visualization capabilities, analytical and statistical capabilities, performance and scalability, the quality of our data security infrastructure, the quality and reliability of our customer service and support, total cost of ownership, return on investment and brand recognition. Any failure by us to compete successfully in any one of these or other areas may reduce the demand for our platform, as well as adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, current and future competitors may also make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with others. By doing so, these competitors may increase their ability to meet the needs of customers. These relationships may limit our ability to sell or certify our platform through specific distributors, technology providers, database companies and distribution channels and allow competitors to rapidly gain significant market share. These developments could 21 limit our ability to obtain revenue from existing and new customers. If we are unable to compete successfully against competitors, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we are unable to attract new customers in a manner that is cost-effective, our revenue growth could be slower than we expect and our business may be harmed. To increase our revenue, we must add new customers. Demand for our platform is affected by a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, such as continued market acceptance of our platform for existing and new use cases, the timing of development and release of new applications and features, technological change, growth or contraction in our addressable market, and accessibility across mobile devices, operating systems, and applications. In addition, if competitors introduce lower cost or differentiated products or services that are perceived to compete with our features, our ability to sell our features based on factors such as pricing, technology and functionality could be impaired. As a result, we may be unable to attract new customers at rates or on terms that would be favorable or comparable to prior periods, which could negatively affect the growth of our revenue. Even if we do attract customers, the cost of new customer acquisition may prove so high as to prevent us from achieving or sustaining profitability. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. In general, customer acquisition costs and other upfront costs associated with new customers are much higher in the first year than the aggregate revenue we recognize from those new customers in the first year. As a result, the profitability of a customer to our business in any particular period depends in part upon how long a customer has been a subscriber and the degree to which it has expanded its usage of our platform. Additionally, we intend to continue to hire additional sales personnel to grow our domestic and international operations. If our sales and marketing efforts do not result in substantial increases in revenue, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected. If customers do not renew their contracts with us or reduce the number of users of our platform, our revenue will decline and our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. The initial terms of our customer contracts typically vary in length between one and three years, and our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after the expiration of their initial subscription periods. In some cases, the contracts automatically renew (with each party having the option to elect not to renew), but in circumstances where that is not the case, our customers may unilaterally elect not to renew, may seek to renew for lower subscription amounts or for shorter contract lengths, or may choose to renew for the same or fewer applications over time. Our renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including leadership changes within our customers resulting in loss of sponsorship, limited customer resources, pricing changes by us or competitors, customer satisfaction with our platform and related applications, the acquisition of customers by other companies, procurement or budgetary decisions, and deteriorating general economic conditions. To the extent our customer base continues to grow, renewals and additional subscriptions by renewing customers will become an increasingly important part of our results. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions, or decrease the amount they spend with us, revenue will decline and our business will be harmed. If customers do not expand the number of users of our platform or adopt additional use cases our growth prospects, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to increase the deployment of our platform within and across our existing customers and future customers. Many of our customers initially deploy our platform to specific groups or departments within their organization or for a limited number of use cases. Our growth prospects depend on our ability to persuade customers to expand their use of our platform to additional groups, departments and use cases across their organization. Historically, we have made significant investments in research and development to build our platform and to offer enterprise customers the features and functionality that they require. Because our recent growth has resulted in the rapid expansion of our business, we do not have a long history upon which to base forecasts of customer renewal rates, customer upsells or future revenue. As a result, future operating results may be significantly below the expectations of investors, which could harm the market price of our Class B common stock. The loss of one or more of our key customers, or a failure to renew our subscription agreements with one or more of our key customers, could negatively affect our ability to market our platform. We rely on our reputation and recommendations from key customers in order to promote subscriptions to our platform. The loss of, or failure to renew by, any of our key customers could have a significant effect on our revenue, reputation and our ability 22 to obtain new customers. In addition, acquisitions of our customers could lead to cancellation of such customers contracts, thereby reducing the number of our existing and potential customers. Future operating results and key metrics may fluctuate significantly due to a wide range of factors, which makes our future results difficult to predict. Our operating results and key metrics could vary significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of various factors, some of which are outside of our control, including: the expansion of our customer base; the size, duration and terms of our contracts with both existing and new customers; the introduction of products and product enhancements by competitors, and changes in pricing for products offered by us or our competitors; customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors or otherwise; changes in customers budgets; seasonal variations in our sales, which have generally historically been highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in the second and third fiscal quarters; the timing of satisfying revenue recognition criteria, particularly with regard to large transactions; the amount and timing of payment for expenses, including infrastructure costs to deliver our platform, research and development, sales and marketing expenses, employee benefit and stock-based compensation expenses and costs related to Domopalooza, our annual user conference that occurs in our first fiscal quarter; costs related to the hiring, training and maintenance of our direct sales force; the timing and growth of our business, in particular through the hiring of new employees and international expansion; and general economic and political conditions, both domestically and internationally, as well as economic conditions specifically affecting industries in which our customers operate. Any one of these or other factors discussed elsewhere in this report may result in fluctuations in our operating results, meaning that quarter-to-quarter comparisons may not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. Because we recognize revenue from subscriptions ratably over the term of the agreement, near-term changes in sales may not be reflected immediately in our operating results. We offer our platform primarily through subscription agreements, which typically vary in length between one and three years, and may in many cases be subject to automatic renewal or renewal only at a customer's discretion. We generally invoice our customers in annual installments at the beginning of each year in the subscription period. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized ratably over the subscription period. As a result, most of the revenue that we report in each period is derived from the recognition of deferred revenue relating to subscriptions entered into during previous periods. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions in any one quarter is not likely to have a material impact on results for that quarter. However, declines would negatively affect revenue and deferred revenue balances in future periods, and the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our platform, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our total revenue through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers is recognized over the applicable subscription term. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to reflect the changes in revenue. In addition, a significant majority of our costs are expensed as incurred, while revenue is generally recognized over the life of the customer agreement. As a result, increased growth in the number of our customers could result in our recognition of more costs than revenue in the earlier periods of the terms of our agreements. 23 We are increasingly targeting sales efforts at enterprise customers and the length, cost and uncertainty associated with sales cycles may result in fluctuations in our operating results and our failure to achieve the expectations of investors. We are increasingly targeting sales efforts at enterprise customers, which we define as companies with over $1 billion in revenue, and face long sales cycles, complex customer requirements, substantial upfront sales costs, and a relatively low and difficult to predict volume of sales on a quarter-by-quarter basis. This makes it difficult to predict with certainty our sales and related operating performance in any given period. Our typical sales cycle for new enterprise customers is approximately six months, but is variable and difficult to predict and can be longer. Customers often undertake a prolonged evaluation of our platform, including assessing their own readiness, scoping the professional services involved, and comparing our platform to products offered by competitors and their ability to solve the problem internally. Events may occur during this period that affect the size or timing of a purchase or even cause cancellations, which may lead to greater unpredictability in our business and operating results. Moreover, customers often begin to use our platform on a limited basis with no guarantee that they will expand their use of our platform widely enough across their organization to justify the costs of our sales efforts. We may also face unexpected implementation challenges with enterprise customers or more complicated installations of our platform. It may be difficult to deploy our platform if the customer has unexpected database, hardware or software technology issues. Adherence to our financial plan in part depends on managing the mix of customers, the rate at which customers add users within their organizations, the number of use cases they employ, and the timing and amount of upsells, all of which affect annual contract value. Our financial performance and the predictability of our quarterly financial results may be harmed by intermittent failures to secure timely or at all the higher value enterprise agreements, or changes in the volume of transactions overall, compared to our forecasts, and depends in large part on the successful execution of our direct sales team. Additionally, our quarterly sales cycles are generally more heavily weighted toward the end of the quarter with an increased volume of sales in the last few weeks and days of the quarter. This impacts the timing of recognized revenue and billings, cash collections and delivery of professional services. Furthermore, the concentration of contract negotiations in the last few weeks and days of the quarter could require us to expend more in the form of compensation for additional sales, legal and finance employees and contractors. Compression of sales activity to the end of the quarter also greatly increases the likelihood that sales cycles will extend beyond the quarter in which they are forecasted to close for some sizeable transactions, which will harm forecasting accuracy and adversely impact billings and new customer acquisition metrics for the quarter in which they are forecasted to close. If we fail to effectively develop and expand our sales and marketing capabilities, our ability to increase our customer base and increase acceptance of our platform could be harmed. To increase the number of customers and increase the market acceptance of our platform, we will need to expand our sales and marketing operations, including our domestic and international sales force. We will continue to dedicate significant resources to sales and marketing programs. We believe that there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining a sufficient number of direct sales personnel and sales leadership. For example, we recently hired a new chief revenue officer. New hires require significant training and time before they achieve full productivity, particularly in new sales territories. Recent hires and planned hires may not become as productive as quickly as we would like, changes in sales leadership could adversely affect our existing sales personnel, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the future in the markets where we do business. The effectiveness of our sales and marketing has also varied over time and, together with the effectiveness of any partners or resellers we may engage, may vary in the future. Our business and operating results may be harmed if our efforts do not generate a correspondingly significant increase in revenue. We may not achieve anticipated revenue growth from expanding our sales force if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel, if our new sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, or if our sales and marketing programs are not effective. We do not have a long history with our subscription or pricing models and changes could adversely affect our operating results. We have limited experience with respect to determining the optimal prices and contract length for our platform. As the markets for our features grow, as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours or reduce their prices, or as we enter into new international markets, we may be unable to attract new customers or retain existing customers at the same price. Moreover, large customers, which are the focus of our direct sales efforts, may demand greater price discounts. As we expand internationally, we also must determine the appropriate price to enable us to compete effectively internationally. In addition, if the mix of features we sell changes, then we may need to, or choose to, revise our pricing. As a result, in the future 24 we may be required to reduce our prices or offer shorter contract durations, which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability, financial condition and cash flow. In addition, our competitors may offer different subscription or pricing models, such as by number of queries or data size, which may be more attractive to potential customers. We may be required to adjust our subscription or pricing models in response to these changes, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to governmental laws, regulation and other legal obligations, particularly those related to privacy, data protection and information security, and any actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could impair our efforts to maintain and expand our customer base, causing our growth to be limited and harming our business. We receive, store and process personal information and other data from and about customers in addition to our employees and services providers. Also, in connection with future feature offerings, we may receive, store and process additional types of data, including personally identifiable information, related to end consumers. Our handling of data is subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including regulation by various government agencies, such as the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and various state, local and foreign agencies. Our data handling also is subject to contractual obligations and may be deemed to be subject to industry standards, including certain industry standards that we undertake to comply with. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign governments have adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution, use and storage of data relating to individuals, including the use of contact information and other data for marketing, advertising and other communications with individuals and businesses. In the United States, various laws and regulations apply to the collection, processing, disclosure, and security of certain types of data. Additionally, the FTC and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws as imposing standards for the online collection, use, dissemination and security of data. The laws and regulations relating to privacy and data security are evolving, can be subject to significant change and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions. For example, California recently enacted the California Consumer Privacy Act, or CCPA, that will, among other things, require covered companies to provide new disclosures to California consumers, and afford such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information, when it goes into effect on January 1, 2020. Legislators have announced the intent to modify the CCPA, and we cannot yet predict the impact of the CCPA on our business or operations. It may, however, require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial costs and expenses in an effort to comply. In addition, several foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union, have laws and regulations dealing with the handling and processing of personal information obtained from their residents, which in certain cases are more restrictive than those in the United States. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of various types of data, including data that identifies or may be used to identify an individual, such as names, email addresses and in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol, or IP, addresses. Such laws and regulations may be modified or subject to new or different interpretations, and new laws and regulations may be enacted in the future. Within the European Union, in May 2018, the European Union's new regulation governing data and privacy practices called the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR became effective and substantially replaced the data protection laws of the individual European Union member states. The GDPR includes more stringent operational requirements for processors and controllers of personal data and imposes significant penalties for non-compliance of up to the greater of 20 million or 4% of global annual revenues. Complying with the GDPR, the CCPA, and other new data protection laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices. Actual or alleged non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others (including a private right of action for affected individuals in certain instances) and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. We have certified under the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield and the Swiss-U.S. Privacy Shield with respect to our transfer of certain personal data from the European Union and Switzerland to the United States. The Privacy Shield program is subject to annual review and may be challenged, suspended or invalidated. At present, the EU-U.S. Privacy Shield framework and the use of EU Standard Contractual Clauses, or the Model Clauses, to protect data exports between the European Union and the U.S. are both subject to ongoing legal challenges. The EU-US Privacy Shield is subject to a challenge by a French privacy group that is anticipated to be heard in the near future. The Model Clauses are also the subject of court proceedings between the Irish Data Protection Commissioner and a private individual, and this case has been referred to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Any or all of these court proceedings, or other challenges in the future, may result in a ruling that the industry-standard measures we, and other companies, have taken are no longer sufficient. Additionally, it is possible that the Privacy Shield program may need to be updated by the European Commission and Department of Commerce to take into account the GDPR. As a result, we may be unsuccessful in maintaining legitimate means for our transfer and receipt of personal data from the European Union to 25 the United States and may be at risk of experiencing reluctance or refusal of European or multi-national customers to use our solutions and incurring regulatory penalties, which may have an adverse effect on our business. Further, following a referendum in June 2016 in which voters in the United Kingdom approved an exit from the EU, the United Kingdom government has initiated a process to leave the EU. This has created uncertainty with regard to the future regulation of data protection in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom has enacted a Data Protection Bill, effective in May 2018, that substantially implements the GDPR. Uncertainty remains, however, regarding how matters such as cross-border data transfers involving the United Kingdom will be handled in the medium to long term. We may experience reluctance or refusal by current or prospective customers in Europe, including the United Kingdom, to use our products, and we may find it necessary or desirable to make further changes to our handling of personal data of European residents. The regulatory environment applicable to the handling of European residents personal data, and our actions taken in response, may cause us to assume additional liabilities or incur additional costs, and could result in our business, operating results and financial condition being harmed. We also handle credit card and other personal information. Due to the sensitive nature of such information, we have implemented policies and procedures in an effort to preserve and protect our data and our customers' data against loss, misuse, corruption, misappropriation caused by systems failures, unauthorized access or misuse. Notwithstanding these policies, we could be subject to liability claims by individuals and customers whose data resides in our databases for the misuse of that information. If we fail to meet appropriate compliance levels, this could negatively impact our ability to utilize credit cards as a method of payment, and/or collect and store credit card information, which could disrupt our business. We sign business associate agreements with our customers who require them in order to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA, and the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, and therefore we are directly subject to certain provisions of HIPAA applicable to business associates. We may collect and process protected health information as part of our HIPAA compliant service, which may subject us to a number of data protection, security, privacy and other government- and industry-specific requirements. In addition, if we are unable to protect the privacy and security of protected health information, we could be found to have breached our contracts with customers with whom we have a business associate relationship. Noncompliance with laws and regulations relating to privacy and security of personal information, including HIPAA, or with contractual obligations under any business associate agreement may lead to significant fines, civil and criminal penalties, or liabilities. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, audits the compliance of business associates and enforces HIPAA privacy and security standards. HHS enforcement activity has become more significant over the last few years and HHS has signaled its intent to continue this trend. In addition to HHS, state attorneys general are authorized to bring civil actions seeking either injunctions or damages to the extent violation implicate the privacy of state residents. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with laws, regulations, policies, legal or contractual obligations, industry standards, or regulatory guidance relating to privacy, data protection, information security, marketing or consumer communications may result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, litigation, fines and penalties or adverse publicity, and could cause our customers and partners to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards relating to privacy, data protection, marketing, consumer communications and information security in the United States, the European Union and other jurisdictions, and we cannot determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. Future laws, regulations, standards and other obligations or any changed interpretation of existing laws or regulations could impair our ability to develop and market new features and maintain and grow our customer base and increase revenue. Future restrictions on the collection, use, sharing or disclosure of data or additional requirements for express or implied consent of our customers, partners or end consumers for the use and disclosure of such information could require us to incur additional costs or modify our platform, possibly in a material manner, which we may be unable to achieve in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and which could limit our ability to develop new features. If our policies, procedures, or measures relating to privacy, data protection, information security, marketing, or customer communications fail, or are perceived as failing, to comply with laws, regulations, policies, legal obligations or industry standards, we may be subject to governmental enforcement actions, litigation, regulatory investigations, fines, penalties and negative publicity and could cause our application providers, customers and partners to lose trust in us, which could materially affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If our network or computer systems are breached or unauthorized access to customer data is otherwise obtained, our platform may be perceived as insecure and we may lose existing customers or fail to attract new customers, our reputation may be damaged and we may incur significant liabilities. Our operations involve the storage and transmission of our customers sensitive and proprietary information. Cyber-attacks and other malicious internet-based activity continue to increase generally, and cloud-based platform providers of software and 26 services have been targeted. If any unauthorized access to or security breach or security incident impacting our platform, our networks or systems, or any systems or networks of our service providers, occurs, or is believed to have occurred, whether as a result of third-party action, employee, vendor, or contractor error, malfeasance, phishing attacks, social engineering or otherwise, such an event or perceived event could result in the loss of, or unauthorized access to or acquisition of, data or intellectual property of ourselves or our customers, loss of business, severe reputational or brand damage adversely affecting customer or investor confidence, regulatory investigations and orders, litigation or other demands, indemnity obligations, damages for contract breach, penalties for violation of applicable laws, regulations, or contractual obligations, and significant costs for remediation that may include liability for stolen assets or information and repair of system damage that may have been caused, incentives offered to customers or other business partners in an effort to maintain business relationships after a breach or other incident, and other liabilities. Additionally, any such event or perceived event could impact our reputation, harm customer confidence, hurt our sales and expansion into existing and new markets, or cause us to lose existing customers. We could be required to expend significant capital and other resources to alleviate problems caused by such actual or perceived breaches or other incidents and to remediate our systems, we could be exposed to a risk of loss, litigation or regulatory action and possible liability, and our ability to operate our business may be impaired. Additionally, actual, potential or anticipated attacks may cause us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, train employees and engage third-party experts and consultants. In addition, if the security measures of our customers are compromised, even without any actual compromise of our platform or systems, or any networks or systems of our service providers, we may face negative publicity or reputational harm if customers or anyone else incorrectly attributes the blame for such security breaches or other incidents to us, our platform, our systems or networks, or those of our service providers. If customers believe that our platform does not provide adequate security for the storage of personal or other sensitive information or its transmission over the internet, our business will be harmed. Customers concerns about security or privacy may deter them from using our platform for activities that involve personal or other sensitive information. Our errors and omissions insurance covering certain security and privacy damages and claim expenses may not be sufficient to compensate for all liability. Although we maintain insurance for liabilities incurred as a result of some security and privacy damages, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, including our financial condition, operating results, and reputation. Because the techniques used and vulnerabilities exploited to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or vulnerabilities or implement adequate preventative measures. We may also experience security breaches that may remain undetected for an extended period. Additionally, with data security a critical competitive factor in our industry, we make public statements in our privacy policies, on our website, and elsewhere describing the security of our platform. Should any of these statements be untrue, become untrue, or be perceived to be untrue, even if through circumstances beyond our reasonable control, we may face claims, including claims of unfair or deceptive trade practices, brought by the FTC, state, local, or foreign regulators, and private litigants. If we fail to adapt and respond effectively to rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs or requirements, our solutions may become less competitive. Our success depends on our customers' willingness to adopt and use our platform, including on their smartphone or mobile device, as well as our ability to adapt and enhance our platform. To attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers, we need to continue to enhance and improve our platform, to meet customer needs at prices that customers are willing to pay. Such efforts will require adding new features, expanding related applications and responding to technological advancements, which will increase our research and development costs. If we are unable to develop solutions that address customers needs, or enhance and improve our platform in a timely manner, we may not be able to increase or maintain market acceptance of our platform. 27 Further, we may make changes to our platform that customers do not find useful. We may also discontinue certain features, begin to charge for certain features that are currently free or increase fees for any features or usage of our platform. We may also face unexpected problems or challenges in connection with new applications or feature introductions. Enhancements and changes to our platform could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: failure to predict market demand accurately in terms of platform functionality and capability or to supply features that meets this demand in a timely fashion; inability to operate effectively with the technologies, systems or applications of existing or potential customers; defects, errors or failures; negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; delays in releasing new enhancements and additional features to our platform to the market; the introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products; an ineffective sales force; poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay purchases; challenges with customer adoption and use of our platform on mobile devices or problems encountered in developing or supporting enhancements to our mobile applications; and the reluctance of customers to purchase subscriptions to software incorporating open source software. Because our platform is designed to operate on and with a variety of systems, we will need to continuously modify and enhance our platform to keep pace with changes in technology, and we may fail to do so. In addition, issues in the use of artificial intelligence in our platform may result in reputational harm or liability. Domos Mr. Roboto leverages machine learning algorithms, predictive analytics, and other artificial intelligence technologies to identify trends, anomalies and correlations, provide alerts and initiate business processes. Artificial intelligence presents risks and challenges that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. Artificial intelligence algorithms may be flawed. Datasets may be insufficient or contain biased information. Inappropriate or controversial data practices by us or others could impair the acceptance of artificial intelligence solutions. These deficiencies could undermine the decisions, predictions, or analysis artificial intelligence applications produce, subjecting us to competitive harm, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. Our platform also provides real-time write-back capabilities to customer environments, including to IoT products and services. The development of the internet of things, or IoT, presents security, privacy and execution risks. Many IoT devices have limited interfaces and ability to be updated or patched. IoT solutions may collect large amounts of data, and our handling of IoT data may not satisfy customers or regulatory requirements. IoT scenarios may increasingly affect personal health and safety. If IoT solutions that include our technologies do not work as intended, violate the law, or harm individuals or businesses, we may be subject to legal claims or enforcement actions. These risks, if realized, may increase our costs, damage our reputation or brand, or negatively impact our business and operating results. Moreover, many competitors expend a considerably greater amount of funds on their research and development programs, and those that do not may be acquired by larger companies that would allocate greater resources to competitors research and development programs. If we fail to maintain adequate research and development resources or compete effectively with the research and development programs of competitors, our business could be harmed. Our ability to grow is also subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies emerge that are able to deliver business intelligence solutions at lower prices, more efficiently, more conveniently or more securely, such technologies could adversely affect our ability to compete. We are dependent on the continued services and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our business. Our future success depends in large part on the continued contributions of our founder and chief executive officer, other executive officers, members of senior management and other key personnel. We do not maintain key person insurance for any employee. Our executive officers, senior management and key personnel are all employed on an at-will basis, which means that they could terminate their employment with us at any time, for any reason and without notice. The loss of any of our key 28 management personnel could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our development and strategic objectives and adversely affect our business. If we are unable to attract, integrate and retain additional qualified personnel, including top technical talent, our business could be adversely affected. Future success depends in part on our ability to identify, attract, integrate and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales and other personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous other companies, including other software and technology companies, many of whom have greater financial and other resources than we do. These companies also may provide more diverse opportunities and better chances for career advancement. Some of these characteristics may be more appealing to high-quality candidates than those we have to offer. In addition, new hires often require significant training and, in many cases, take significant time before they achieve full productivity. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain qualified personnel, including significant expenditures related to salaries and benefits and compensation expenses related to equity awards, and we may lose new employees to competitors or other companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. Moreover, new employees may not be or become as productive as we expect, as we may face challenges in adequately or appropriately integrating them into our workforce and culture. In addition, as we move into new geographies, we will need to attract and recruit skilled personnel in those areas. We have limited experience with recruiting in geographies outside of the United States, and may face additional challenges in attracting, integrating and retaining international employees. If we are unable to attract, integrate and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational and managerial requirements, on a timely basis or at all, our business will be adversely affected. Volatility or lack of positive performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or, conversely, if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to appropriately incentivize and retain our employees through equity compensation, or if we need to increase our compensation expenses in order to appropriately incentivize and retain our employees, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected. If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with channel partners, our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. To date, we have been primarily dependent on our direct sales force to sell subscriptions to our platform. Although we have developed relationships with some channel partners, such as referral partners, resellers, and integration partners, these channels have resulted in limited revenue historically. We believe that continued growth in our business is dependent upon identifying, developing, and maintaining strategic relationships with additional channel partners that can drive substantial revenue. If we fail to identify additional channel partners in a timely and cost-effective manner, or at all, or are unable to assist our current and future channel partners in independently selling and deploying our products, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. Typically, agreements with channel partners are non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with our platform. They may also cease marketing our platform with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. Additionally, customer retention and expansion attributable to customers acquired through our channel partners may differ significantly from customers acquired through our direct sales efforts. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our products, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our reputation and ability to grow our business may also be adversely affected. Sales by channel partners are more likely than direct sales to involve collectability concerns. In particular sales by our channel partners into developing markets, and accordingly, variations in the mix between revenue attributable to sales by channel partners and revenue attributable to direct sales, may result in fluctuations in our operating results. If we fail to offer high-quality professional services and support, our business and reputation may suffer. High-quality professional services and support, including training, implementation and consulting services, are important for the successful marketing, sale and use of our platform and for the renewal of subscriptions by existing customers. Professional services may be provided by us or by a third-party partner. The importance of high-quality professional services and support will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. If we or our third-party partners do not provide effective ongoing support, our ability to retain and expand use of our platform and related applications to existing customers may suffer, and our reputation with existing or potential customers may be harmed. 29 We continue to pursue strategies to reduce the amount of professional services required for a customer to begin to use and gain value from our platform, lower the overall costs of professional service fees to our customers, and improve the gross margin of our professional services business. If we are unable to successfully accomplish these objectives, our operating results, including our profit margins, may be harmed. We may not timely and effectively scale our existing technology, including our computing architecture, to meet the performance and other requirements placed on our systems, which could increase expenditures unexpectedly and create risk of outages and other performance and quality of service issues for our customers. Our future growth and renewal rates depend on our ability to meet customers expectations with respect to the speed, reliability and other performance attributes of our platform, and to meet the expanding needs of customers as their use of our platform grows. The number of users, the amount and complexity of data ingested, created, transferred, processed and stored by us, the number of locations where our platform is being accessed, and the number of processes and systems managed by us on behalf of these customers, among other factors, separately and combined, can have an effect on the performance of our platform. In order to ensure that we meet the performance and other requirements of customers, we continue to make significant investments to develop and implement new technologies in our platform and infrastructure operations. These technologies, which include database, application and server advancements, revised network and hosting strategies, and automation, are often advanced, complex, and sometimes broad in scope and untested through industry-wide usage. We may not be successful in developing or implementing these technologies. To the extent that we do not develop offerings and scale our operations in a manner that maintains performance as our customers expand their use, our business and operating results may be harmed. We may not accurately assess the capital and operational expenditures required to successfully fulfill our objectives and our financial performance may be harmed as a result. Further, we may make mistakes in the technical execution of these efforts to improve our platform, which may affect our customers. Issues that may arise include performance, data loss or corruption, outages, and other issues that could give rise to customer satisfaction issues, loss of business, and harm to our reputation. If any of these were to occur there would be a negative and potentially significant impact to our financial performance. Lastly, our ability to generate new applications, and improve our current solutions may be limited if and to the extent resources are necessarily allocated to address issues related to the performance of existing solutions. Real or perceived errors, failures, or bugs in our platform could adversely affect our operating results and growth prospects. We update our platform on a frequent basis. Despite efforts to test our updates, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in our platform until after it is deployed to our customers. We have discovered and expect we will continue to discover errors, failures and bugs in our platform and anticipate that certain of these errors, failures and bugs will only be discovered and remediated after deployment to customers. Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our platform could result in negative publicity, government inquiries, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our platform, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem. We implement bug fixes and upgrades as part of our regular system maintenance, which may lead to system downtime. Even if we are able to implement the bug fixes and upgrades in a timely manner, any history of inaccuracies in the data we collect for our customers, or the loss, damage, unauthorized access to or acquisition of, or inadvertent release or exposure of confidential or other sensitive data could cause our reputation to be harmed and result in claims against us, and customers may elect not to purchase or renew their agreements with us or we may incur increased insurance costs. The costs associated with any material defects or errors in our software or other performance problems may be substantial and could harm our operating results. If we fail to meet our service level commitments, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our subscription agreements with many of our customers, including most of our top customers, provide certain service level commitments. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of downtime that exceed the periods allowed under our subscription agreements, we may be obligated to provide these customers with service credits, or we could face subscription terminations, which could significantly impact our revenue. Any extended service outages could also adversely affect our reputation, which would also impact our future revenue and operating results. Our customers depend on our customer support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our platform. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. Increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenue, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating 30 results. In addition, our sales process is highly dependent on the ease of use of our services, on our reputation and on positive recommendations from our existing customers. Any failure to maintain high-quality customer support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to sell our services to existing and prospective customers. Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure may adversely affect our business and operating results. Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of existing and potential customers to access our platform at any time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, introductions of new capabilities, human or technology errors, distributed denial of service attacks, or other security related incidents. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our performance, especially during peak usage times and as our platform becomes more complex and user traffic increases. If our platform is unavailable or if users are unable to access our platform within a reasonable amount of time, or at all, our business will be harmed. We also rely on SaaS and other technologies from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business. To the extent that our third-party service providers experience outages, disruptions, or other performance problems, or to the extent we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed, and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, if our agreements with third-party software or services vendors are not renewed or the third-party software or services become obsolete, fail to function properly, are incompatible with future versions of our products or services, are defective or otherwise fail to address our needs, there is no assurance that we would be able to replace the functionality provided by the third-party software or services with software or services from alternative providers. We have taken steps to increase redundancy in our platform and infrastructure and have plans in place to mitigate events that could disrupt our platform's service. However, there can be no assurance that these efforts would protect against interruptions or performance problems. We rely upon data centers and other systems and technologies provided by third parties, and technology systems and electronic networks supplied and managed by third parties, to operate our business and interruptions or performance problems with these systems, technologies and networks may adversely affect our business and operating results. We rely on data centers and other technologies and services provided by third parties in order to manage our cloud-based infrastructure and operate our business. If any of these services becomes unavailable or otherwise is unable to serve our requirements due to extended outages, interruptions, facility closure, or because it is no longer available on commercially reasonable terms, expenses could increase, our ability to manage finances could be interrupted and our operations otherwise could be disrupted or otherwise impacted until appropriate substitute services, if available, are identified, obtained, and implemented. We do not control, or in some cases have limited control over, the operation of the data center facilities we use, and they are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. They may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct, to adverse events caused by operator error, and to interruptions, data loss or corruption, and other performance problems due to various factors, including introductions of new capabilities, technology errors, infrastructure changes, distributed denial of service attacks, or other security related incidents. For instance, in December 2017, researchers identified significant CPU architecture vulnerabilities commonly known as Spectre and Meltdown that have required software updates and patches, including for providers of public cloud services, to mitigate such vulnerabilities and such updates and patches have required servers to be offline and potentially slow their performance. We may not be able to rapidly switch to new data centers or move customers from one data center to another in the event of any adverse event. Despite precautions taken at these facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism or other act of malfeasance, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our service and the loss or corruption of, or unauthorized access to or acquisition of, customer data. In addition, if we do not accurately predict our infrastructure capacity requirements, customers could experience service shortfalls. The provisioning of additional cloud hosting capacity and data center infrastructure requires lead time. As we continue to add data centers, restructure our data management plans, and increase capacity in existing and future data centers, we may be required to move or transfer our data and customers data. Despite precautions taken during such processes and procedures, 31 any unsuccessful data transfers may impair customers use of our platform, and we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer of data to other facilities, which may lead to, among other things, customer dissatisfaction and non-renewals. The owners of our data center facilities have no obligation to renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew these agreements on commercially reasonable terms, we may be required to transfer to new data center facilities, and we may incur significant costs and possible service interruption in connection with doing so. Our ability to provide services and solutions to customers also depends on our ability to communicate with customers through the public internet and electronic networks that are owned and operated by third parties. In addition, in order to provide services on-demand and promptly, our computer equipment and network servers must be functional 24 hours per day, which requires access to telecommunications facilities managed by third parties and the availability of electricity, which we do not control. A severe disruption of one or more of these networks or facilities, including as a result of utility or third-party system interruptions, could impair our ability to process information and provide services to our customers. Any unavailability of, or failure to meet our requirements by, third-party data centers or other third-party technologies or services, or any disruption of the internet or the third-party networks or facilities that we rely upon, could impede our ability to provide services to customers, harm our reputation, result in a loss of customers, cause us to issue refunds or service credits to customers, subject us to potential liabilities, result in contract terminations, and adversely affect our renewal rates. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our business and operating results. If our or our customers' access to data becomes limited, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. The success of our platform is dependent in large part on our customers ability to access data maintained on third party software and service platforms. Generally, we do not have agreements in place with these third parties that guarantee access to their platforms, and any agreements that we do have in place with these third parties are typically terminable for convenience by the third party. If these third parties restrict or prevent our ability to integrate our platform with their software or platform, including but not limited to, by limiting the functionality of our data connectors, our ability to access the data maintained on their systems or the speed at which such data is delivered, customers ability to access their relevant data in a timely manner may be limited, and our business and operating results may be adversely affected. Our business depends on continued and unimpeded access to the internet and mobile networks. Our customers who access our platform and services through mobile devices, such as smartphones, laptops and tablet computers, must have a high-speed internet connection to use our services. Currently, this access is provided by telecommunications companies and internet access service providers that have significant and increasing market power in the broadband and internet access marketplace. In the absence of government regulation, these providers could take measures that affect their customers ability to use our products and services, such as degrading the quality of the data packets we transmit over their lines, giving our packets low priority, giving other packets higher priority than ours, blocking our packets entirely, or attempting to charge their customers more for using our platform and services. To the extent that internet service providers implement usage-based pricing, including meaningful bandwidth caps, or otherwise try to monetize access to their networks, we could incur greater operating expenses and customer acquisition and retention could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, to the extent network operators were to create tiers of internet access service and either charge us for or prohibit our services from being available to our customers through these tiers, our business could be negatively impacted. On February 26, 2015, the Federal Communications Commission, or the FCC, reclassified broadband internet access services in the United States as a telecommunications service subject to some elements of common carrier regulation, including the obligation to provide service on just and reasonable terms, and adopted specific net neutrality rules prohibiting the blocking, throttling or paid prioritization of content or services. However, in December 2017, the FCC once again classified broadband internet access service as an unregulated information service and repealed the specific rules against blocking, throttling or paid prioritization of content or services. It retained a rule requiring internet service providers to disclose their practices to consumers, entrepreneurs and the FCC. A number of parties have already stated they would appeal this order and it is possible Congress may adopt legislation restoring some net neutrality requirements. The elimination of net neutrality rules and any changes to the rules could affect the market for broadband internet access service in a way that impacts our business, for example, if internet access providers begin to limit the bandwidth and speed for the transmission of data from independent software vendors. 32 Catastrophic events may disrupt our business and impair our ability to provide our platform to customers, resulting in costs for remediation, customer dissatisfaction, and other business or financial losses. Our operations depend, in part, on our ability to protect our facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. Despite precautions taken at our facilities, the occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, spikes in usage volume or other unanticipated problems at a facility could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our platform. Even with current and planned disaster recovery arrangements, our business could be harmed. Also, in the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. These factors in turn could further reduce revenue, subject us to liability and cause us to issue credits or cause customers to fail to renew their subscriptions, any of which could harm our business. Our long-term growth depends in part on being able to expand internationally on a profitable basis. Historically, we have generated a substantial majority of our revenue from customers inside the United States. For example, approximately 86% , 82% and 77% of our total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively, was derived from sales within the United States. We have begun to expand internationally and plan to continue to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. Expanding our international operations will subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including: the need to make significant investments in people, solutions and infrastructure, typically well in advance of revenue generation; the need to localize and adapt our application for specific countries, including translation into foreign languages and associated expenses; potential changes in public or customer sentiment regarding cloud-based services or the ability of non-local enterprises to provide adequate data protection, particularly in the European Union; technical or latency issues in delivering our platform; dependence on certain third parties, including resellers with whom we do not have extensive experience; the lack of reference customers and other marketing assets in regional markets that are new or developing for us, as well as other adaptations in our market generation efforts that we may be slow to identify and implement; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes or trade laws; differing labor regulations, especially in the European Union, where labor laws are generally more advantageous to employees as compared to the United States, including deemed hourly wage and overtime regulations in these locations; challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; difficulties in maintaining our company culture with a dispersed and distant workforce; difficulties in managing a business in new markets with diverse cultures, languages, customs, legal systems, alternative dispute systems and regulatory systems; currency exchange rate fluctuations and the resulting effect on our revenue and expenses, and the cost and risk of entering into hedging transactions if we choose to do so in the future; limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries; limited or insufficient intellectual property protection, or the risk that our products may conflict with, infringe or otherwise violate foreign intellectual property; political instability or terrorist activities; requirements to comply with foreign privacy, information security, and data protection laws and regulations and the risks and costs of non-compliance; 33 likelihood of potential or actual violations of domestic and international anticorruption laws, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act, or of U.S. and international export control and sanctions regulations, which likelihood may increase with an increase of sales or operations in foreign jurisdictions and operations in certain industries; requirements to comply with U.S. export control and economic sanctions laws and regulations and other restrictions on international trade; likelihood that the United States and other governments and their agencies impose sanctions and embargoes on certain countries, their governments and designated parties, which may prohibit the export of certain technology, products, and services to such persons; adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls that could make it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash should we desire to do so; and our ability to recruit and engage local channel and implementation partners. Any of these risks could adversely affect our international operations, reduce our international revenue or increase our operating costs, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition and growth prospects. For example, compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. We may be unable to keep current with changes in government requirements as they change from time to time. Failure to comply with these regulations could have adverse effects on our business. In addition, in many foreign countries it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. laws and regulations applicable to us. We have not historically had formal policies with respect to these laws and regulations, and have only recently begun to implement compliance procedures designed to prevent violations of these laws and regulations. There can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, and agents will comply with the formal policies we will implement, or applicable laws and regulations. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our software and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks. Increased sales to customers outside the United States or paid for in currency other than the U.S. dollar exposes us to potential currency exchange losses. As our international sales and operations increase, so too will the number and significance of transactions, including intercompany transactions, occurring in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In addition, our international subsidiaries may accumulate assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is the functional reporting currency of these entities. Accordingly, changes in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar can affect our revenue and operating results due to foreign currency gains and losses that are reflected in our earnings. We do not currently maintain a program to hedge transactional exposures in foreign currencies. However, in the future, we may use derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Moreover, the use of hedging instruments may introduce additional risks if we are unable to structure effective hedges with such instruments. Future changes in the regulations and laws of the United States, or those of the international markets in which we do business, could harm our business. We are subject to general business regulations and laws, as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the internet and software, in the United States as well as the international markets in which we do business. These regulations and laws may cover employment, taxation, privacy, data security, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights and other intellectual property, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, unencumbered internet access to our services, the design and operation of websites, and the characteristics and quality of software and services. It is possible changes to these regulations and laws, as well as compliance challenges related to the complexity of multiple, conflicting and changing sets of applicable regulations and laws, may impact our sales, operations, and future growth. 34 Economic uncertainties or downturns could materially adversely affect our business. Current or future economic uncertainties or downturns could adversely affect our business and operating results. Negative conditions in the general economy both in the United States and abroad, including conditions resulting from changes in gross domestic product growth, the continued sovereign debt crisis, financial and credit market fluctuations, political deadlock, natural catastrophes, warfare and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe, the Asia Pacific region or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in business investments, including corporate spending on business intelligence software in general and negatively affect the rate of growth of our business. General worldwide economic conditions may experience significant downturns and may be unstable. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to forecast and plan future business activities accurately, and they could cause customers to reevaluate their decisions to subscribe to our platform, which could delay and lengthen our sales cycles or result in cancellations of planned purchases. Furthermore, during challenging economic times customers may tighten their budgets and face issues in gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. In turn, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, which would adversely affect our financial results. To the extent subscriptions to our platform are perceived by customers and potential customers to be discretionary, our revenue may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general information technology spending. Also, customers may choose to develop in-house software as an alternative to using our platform. Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our platform. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry. If the economic conditions of the general economy or industries in which we operate do not improve, or worsen from present levels, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business is highly dependent upon our brand recognition and reputation, and the failure to maintain or enhance our brand recognition or reputation would likely adversely affect our business and operating results. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the Domo brand identity and our reputation are critical to our relationships with customers and channel partners and to our ability to attract new customers and channel partners. We also believe that the importance of our brand recognition and reputation will continue to increase as competition in our market continues to develop. Our success in this area will depend on a wide range of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including the following: the efficacy of our marketing efforts; our ability to maintain a high-quality, innovative and error- and bug-free platform; our ability to obtain new customers and retain and increase usage by existing customers; our ability to maintain high customer satisfaction; the quality and perceived value of our platform; our ability to obtain, maintain and enforce trademarks and other indicia of origin that are valuable to our brand; our ability to successfully differentiate our platform from competitors products; actions of competitors and other third parties; our ability to provide customer support and professional services; any actual or perceived data breach or data loss, or misuse or perceived misuse of our platform; positive or negative publicity; interruptions, delays or attacks on our platform; challenges with customer adoption and use of our platform on mobile devices or problems encountered in developing or supporting enhancements to our mobile applications; and 35 litigation or regulatory related developments. If our brand promotion activities are not successful, our operating results and growth may be harmed. Independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our platform, as well as competitors products, and perception of our platform in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. If these reviews are negative, or less positive as compared to those of competitors products and services, our brand may be adversely affected. Furthermore, negative publicity, whether or not justified, relating to events or activities attributed to us, our employees, partners or others associated with any of these parties, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our platform and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any attempts to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand may be costly and time consuming, and such efforts may not ultimately be successful. Contractual disputes with our customers could be costly, time-consuming and harm our reputation. Our business is contract intensive and we are party to contracts with our customers all over the world. Our contracts can contain a variety of terms, including service levels, security obligations, indemnification and regulatory requirements. Contract terms may not always be standardized across our customers and can be subject to differing interpretations, which could result in disputes with our customers from time to time. If our customers notify us of an alleged contract breach or otherwise dispute any provision under our contracts, the resolution of such disputes in a manner adverse to our interests could negatively affect our operating results. Additionally, if customers fail to pay us under the terms of our agreements, we may be adversely affected both from the inability to collect amounts due and the cost of enforcing the terms of our contracts, including litigation. The risk of such negative effects increases with the term length of our customer arrangements. Furthermore, some of our customers may seek bankruptcy protection or other similar relief and fail to pay amounts due to us, or pay those amounts more slowly, either of which could adversely affect our operating results, financial position and cash flow. Third-party claims that we are infringing or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or require us to obtain expensive licenses, and our business could be harmed. The technology industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights. Companies in the technology industry must often defend against litigation claims based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties, including our competitors, may own patents or other intellectual property rights that cover aspects of our technology or business methods and may assert patent or other intellectual property rights against us and others in the industry. Moreover, in recent years, individuals and groups that are non-practicing entities, commonly referred to as patent trolls, have purchased patents and other intellectual property assets for the purpose of making claims of infringement or other violation of intellectual property rights in order to extract settlements. From time to time, we have received and may receive in the future threatening letters, notices or invitations to license, or may be the subject of claims that our technology and business operations infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert managements attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand and cause us to incur significant expenses. Claims of intellectual property infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights might require us to stop using technology found to infringe or violate a third partys rights, redesign our platform, which could require significant effort and expense and cause delays of releases, enter into costly settlement or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling our platform. If we cannot or do not license the infringed or otherwise violated technology on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, we could be forced to limit or stop selling our platform, we may not be able to meet our obligations to customers under our customer contracts, revenue and operating results could be adversely impacted, and we may be unable to compete effectively. Even if we are successful in defending against allegations of intellectual property infringement, litigation may be costly and may divert the time and other resources of our management. Additionally, customers may not purchase our platform if they are concerned that they may infringe or otherwise violate third-party intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of these events may harm our business. 36 Indemnity provisions in various agreements potentially expose us to substantial liability for intellectual property infringement and other losses. Our agreements with customers and other third parties may include indemnification provisions under which we agree to indemnify them for losses suffered or incurred as a result of claims of intellectual property infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights, damages caused by us to property or persons, or other liabilities relating to or arising from our software, services or other contractual obligations. Large indemnity payments could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other existing customers and new customers and harm our business and results of operations. The success of our business depends in part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. Our success is dependent, in part, upon protecting our proprietary technology. As of January 31, 2019 , we had 89 issued U.S. patents covering our technology and 39 patent applications pending for examination in the United States. Our issued patents, and any patents issued in the future, may not provide us with any competitive advantages or may be challenged by third parties, and our patent applications may never be granted. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Even if issued, there can be no assurance that these patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are uncertain. Any patents that are issued may subsequently be invalidated or otherwise limited, allowing other companies to develop offerings that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Patent applications in the United States are typically not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that we were the first to use the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications or otherwise used in our platform, that we were the first to file for protection in our patent applications, or that third parties do not have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our patented technology. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our platform is available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States (in particular, some foreign jurisdictions do not permit patent protection for software), and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Additional uncertainty may result from changes to intellectual property legislation enacted in the United States, including the America Invents Act, and other national governments and from interpretations of the intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries by applicable courts and agencies. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. Although we generally enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and consultants that have access to material confidential information and enter into confidentiality agreements with our customers and the parties with whom we have strategic relationships and business alliances, no assurance can be given that these agreements will be effective in controlling access to and distribution of our platform and propriety information or prevent reverse engineering. Further, these agreements may not prevent competitors from independently developing technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to our platform, and we may be unable to prevent this competition. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may have already occurred or may occur in the future. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Such litigation could be costly, time consuming and distracting to management and could result in the impairment or loss of portions of our intellectual property. Furthermore, efforts to enforce our intellectual property rights may be met with defenses, counterclaims and countersuits attacking the validity and enforceability of our intellectual property rights. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate. Any litigation, whether or not resolved in our favor, could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management and technical personnel from our business and adversely affect our business. Our inability to protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, as well as any costly litigation, could delay further sales or the implementation of our platform, impair the functionality of our platform, delay introductions of new features or enhancements, result in our substituting inferior or more costly technologies into our platform, or injure our reputation. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement or other violation of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. 37 We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially viable. Any litigation, whether or not it is resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our platform could result in customer dissatisfaction and negatively affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and growth prospects. Our platform is deployed in a wide variety of technology environments. Increasingly, our platform has been deployed in large scale, complex technology environments, and we believe our future success will depend on our ability to increase sales of our platform for use in such deployments. We must often assist our customers in achieving successful implementations of our platform, which we do through our professional services organization. The time required to implement our platform can vary. For complex deployments, implementation can take multiple months. If our customers are unable to implement our platform successfully, or unable to do so in a timely manner, customer perceptions of our platform may be harmed, our reputation and brand may suffer, and customers may choose to cease usage of our platform or not expand their use of our platform. Our customers and third-party partners may need training in the proper use of and the variety of benefits that can be derived from our platform to maximize its benefits. If our platform is not effectively implemented or used correctly or as intended, or if we fail to adequately train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our platform, our customers may not be able to achieve satisfactory outcomes. This could result in negative publicity and legal claims against us, which may cause us to generate fewer sales to new customers and reductions in renewals or expansions of the use of our platform with existing customers, any of which would harm our business and results of operations. Our use of open source software could negatively affect our ability to offer our platform and subject us to possible litigation. Our platform uses open source software that we, in some cases, have obtained from third parties. Open source software is generally freely accessible, usable and modifiable, and is made available to the general public on an as-is basis under the terms of a non-negotiable license. Use and distribution of open source software may entail greater risks than use of third-party commercial software. Open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or other claims relating to violation of intellectual property rights or the quality of the software. In addition, certain open source licenses, like the GNU Affero General Public License, or AGPL, may require us to offer for no cost the components of our platform that incorporate the open source software, to make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create by incorporating or using the open source software, or to license our modifications or derivative works under the terms of the particular open source license. If we are required, under the terms of an open source license, to release our proprietary source code to the public, competitors could create similar products with lower development effort and time, which ultimately could result in a loss of sales for us. We may also face claims alleging noncompliance with open source license terms or infringement, misappropriation or other violation of open source technology. These claims could result in litigation or require us to purchase a costly license, devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our platform, discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis, or make generally available our proprietary code in source code form, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results, including being enjoined from the offering of the components of our platform that contained the open source software. We could also be subject to lawsuits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software. Litigation could be costly for us to defend, have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition and require us to devote additional research and development resources to re-engineer our platform. Although we monitor our use of open source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would subject our platform to unintended conditions, few courts have interpreted open source licenses, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our platform. We cannot guarantee that we have incorporated open source software in our platform in a manner that will not subject us to liability, or in a manner that is consistent with our current policies and procedures. We may be subject to litigation for a variety of claims, which could adversely affect our operating results, harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. In addition to intellectual property litigation, we may be subject to other claims arising from our normal business activities. These may include claims, lawsuits, and proceedings involving labor and employment, wage and hour, commercial and other matters. The outcome of any litigation, regardless of its merits, is inherently uncertain. Any claims and lawsuits, and the disposition of such claims and lawsuits, could be time-consuming and expensive to resolve, divert management attention and resources, 38 and lead to attempts on the part of other parties to pursue similar claims. Any adverse determination related to litigation could adversely affect our operating results, harm our reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. In addition, depending on the nature and timing of any such dispute, a resolution of a legal matter could materially affect our future operating results, our cash flows or both. Future acquisitions could disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We may make acquisitions that could be material to our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability as an organization to successfully acquire and integrate technologies or businesses is unproven. Acquisitions involve many risks, including the following: an acquisition may negatively affect our operating results, financial condition or cash flows because it may require us to incur charges or assume substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisition; we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us; an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company we acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from either company; we may encounter difficulties in, or may be unable to, successfully sell any acquired products; an acquisition may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience or where competitors have stronger market positions; the potential strain on our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures; potential known and unknown liabilities associated with an acquired company; if we incur debt to fund such acquisitions, such debt may subject us to material restrictions on our ability to conduct our business as well as financial maintenance covenants; the risk of impairment charges related to potential write-downs of acquired assets or goodwill in future acquisitions; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity or convertible debt securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and managing the varying intellectual property protection strategies and other activities of an acquired company. We may not succeed in addressing these or other risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the integration of any acquired business. The inability to integrate successfully the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any acquired business, or any significant delay in achieving integration, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants that may limit our operating flexibility. Our credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to transfer or dispose of assets, merge with other companies or consummate certain changes of control, acquire other companies, open new offices that contain a material amount of assets, pay dividends, incur additional indebtedness and liens and enter into new businesses. We therefore may not be able to engage in any of the foregoing transactions unless we obtain the consent of the lender or terminate the credit facility, which may limit our operating flexibility. In addition, our credit facility is secured by all of our assets, including our intellectual property, and requires us to satisfy certain financial covenants. There is no guarantee that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flow or sales to meet these financial covenants or pay the principal and interest on any such debt. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that future working capital, borrowings or equity financing will be available to repay or refinance any such debt. Any inability to make scheduled payments or meet the financial covenants on our credit facility would adversely affect our business. 39 Governmental export or import controls could limit our ability to compete in foreign markets and subject us to liability if we violate them. Our software is subject to U.S. export controls, and we incorporate encryption technology into our platform. These products and the underlying technology may be exported only with the required export authorizations, including by license, a license exception or other appropriate government authorizations. U.S. export controls may require submission of a product classification and annual or semi-annual reports. Governmental regulation of encryption technology and regulation of imports or exports of encryption products, or our failure to obtain required import or export authorization for our platform, when applicable, could harm our international sales and adversely affect our revenue. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements regarding the export of our platform, including with respect to new releases of our platform, may create delays in the introduction of our product releases in international markets, prevent customers with international operations from deploying our platform or, in some cases, prevent the export of our platform to some countries altogether. Furthermore, U.S. export control laws and economic sanctions prohibit the shipment of certain products and services to countries, governments and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. If we fail to comply with export and import regulations and such economic sanctions, we may be fined or other penalties could be imposed, including a denial of certain export privileges. Moreover, any new export or import restrictions, new legislation or shifting approaches in the enforcement or scope of existing regulations, or in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our platform by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell subscriptions to our platform to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our platform or limitation on our ability to export or sell subscriptions to our platform would likely adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Failure to comply with anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and anti-money laundering laws could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and other anti-corruption, anti-bribery and anti-money laundering laws in various jurisdictions both domestic and abroad. Anti-corruption, anti-bribery, and anti-money laundering laws have been enforced aggressively in recent years and are interpreted broadly and generally prohibit companies and their directors, officers, employees and agents from promising, authorizing, making or offering improper payments or other benefits to government officials and others in the private sector. Such laws apply to our agents/third parties, and we leverage third parties, including channel partners, to sell subscriptions to our platform and conduct our business abroad. We and our third-party intermediaries may have direct or indirect interactions with officials and employees of government agencies or state-owned or affiliated entities and may be held liable for the corrupt or other illegal activities of these third-party business partners and intermediaries, our employees, representatives, contractors, channel partners, and agents, even if we do not explicitly authorize such activities. While we have policies and procedures to address compliance with such laws, these policies and procedures were only recently adopted and we cannot assure you that all of our employees and agents will not take actions in violation of our policies and applicable law, for which we may be ultimately held responsible. Any violation of the FCPA or other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption laws, and anti-money laundering laws could result in whistleblower complaints, adverse media coverage, investigations, loss of export privileges, severe criminal or civil sanctions, a significant diversion of management's resources and attention or suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracts, all of which may have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, operating results and prospects. We may be subject to additional obligations to collect and remit sales tax and other taxes, and we may be subject to tax liability for past transactions, which could harm our business. We do not collect sales and use, value added and similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable in certain jurisdictions. State, local and foreign jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales, use, value added and other taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of such taxes on subscriptions to our platform in various jurisdictions is unclear. Further, these jurisdictions rules regarding tax nexus are complex and vary significantly. As a result, we could face the possibility of audits that could result in tax assessments, including associated interest and penalties. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales, use, value added or other taxes in those jurisdictions where we have not historically done so could result in substantial tax liabilities and related penalties for past transactions, discourage customers from purchasing our application or otherwise harm our business and operating results. Changes in tax laws or regulations that are applied adversely to us or our customers could increase the costs of our platform and adversely impact our business. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted at any time, which could affect the tax treatment of our (and our subsidiaries) domestic and foreign financial results. Any new taxes could adversely 40 affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. Specifically, taxation of cloud-based software is constantly evolving as many state and local jurisdictions consider the taxability of software services provided remotely. These events could require us or our customers to pay additional tax amounts on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines or penalties and interest for past amounts deemed to be due. If we raise our prices to offset the costs of these changes, existing and potential future customers may elect not to continue to use or purchase subscriptions to our platform in the future. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our platform. Any or all of these events could harm our business and operating results. Further, the recently enacted Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will bring about a wide variety of changes to the U.S. tax system, particularly at the corporate level. The new tax law includes changes to the U.S. corporate tax system that will reduce U.S. corporate tax rates, change how U.S. multinational corporations, like us, are taxed on international earnings and eliminate in whole or in part the deduction for net interest expense. The primary impact of the new legislation on our provision for income taxes will be a reduction of the future tax benefits of existing temporary differences, which are primarily comprised of net operating loss carryforwards. These net operating loss carryforwards may also be impacted by the one-time deemed income inclusion of deferred foreign income from our non-U.S. subsidiaries. This amount is not expected to be material. Since we have recorded a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, we do not anticipate that these changes will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, but we will continue to examine the impact that this tax reform legislation may have on our business. The impact of the new legislation will likely be subject to ongoing technical guidance and accounting interpretation, which we will continue to monitor and assess. Provisional accounting impacts may change in future reporting periods until the accounting analysis is finalized, which will occur no later than one year from the date the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. As a multinational organization, we are subject to taxation in several jurisdictions around the world with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain, and significant judgment and estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Our tax expense may be impacted if our intercompany transactions, which are required to be computed on an arms-length basis, are challenged and successfully disputed by tax authorities. Our policies governing transfer pricing may be determined to be inadequate and could result in additional tax assessments. The amount of taxes we pay in these jurisdictions could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could harm our liquidity and operating results. In addition, the authorities in these jurisdictions could review our tax returns and impose additional tax, interest and penalties, and the authorities could claim that various withholding requirements or other taxes apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could adversely affect our operating results. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. As of January 31, 2019 , we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards for federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $815.1 million and $1,048.5 million , respectively, which may be available to offset taxable income in the future, and which expire in various years beginning in 2028 for federal purposes if not utilized. The state NOLs will expire depending upon the various rules in the states in which we operate. A lack of future taxable income would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs before they expire. In general, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an "ownership change" (as defined under Section 382 of the Code and applicable Treasury Regulations) is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset our future taxable income. We may experience a future ownership change under Section 382 of the Code that could affect our ability to utilize the NOLs to offset our income. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we have acquired or may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that due to regulatory changes, such as suspensions on the use of NOLs or other unforeseen reasons, our existing NOLs could expire or otherwise be unavailable to reduce future income tax liabilities, including for state tax purposes. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a material portion of the NOLs, even if we attain profitability, which could potentially result in increased future tax liability to us and could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 41 Our reported financial results may be harmed by changes in the accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the SEC, and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and may even affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement or effectiveness of a change. For example, in May 2014 the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) , for which certain elements affected our accounting for revenue and costs incurred to acquire contracts. We have adopted Topic 606 using the full retrospective transition method. Other companies in our industry may apply these accounting principles differently than we do, adversely affecting the comparability of our financial statements. See Note 2 to our accompanying financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about Topic 606. Risks Relating to Our Class B Common Stock The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with our founder and chief executive officer, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of important transactions, including a change in control. Our Class A common stock has 40 votes per share, and our Class B common stock has one vote per share. Cocolalla, LLC holds all of the shares of the Class A common stock, and our founder and chief executive officer Joshua G. James, who is the managing member of Cocolalla, LLC, controls approximately 85% of the voting power of our outstanding capital stock and therefore is able to control all matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. Our founder and chief executive officer may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentrated control may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their capital stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our Class B common stock. Future transfers by the holder of Class A common stock will generally result in those shares converting into shares of Class B common stock, subject to limited exceptions, such as certain transfers effected for estate planning or charitable purposes. Mr. James has informed us he and Cocolalla, LLC have entered into arrangements under which he has pledged all of such shares to secure a loan with a financial institution. If these shares were to be sold or otherwise transferred upon default of the underlying loan, the market price of our Class B common stock could decline or be volatile. For additional information, see the section of this report captioned Risk Factors - Future sales of our Class B common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. We have elected to take advantage of the controlled company exemption to the corporate governance rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, which could make our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price. Because we qualify as a controlled company under the corporate governance rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, we are not required to have a majority of our board of directors be independent, nor are we required to have an entirely independent compensation committee or an independent nominating function. Accordingly, should the interests of Cocolalla, LLC, or of our founder and chief executive officer, who controls Cocolalla, LLC, differ from those of other stockholders, the other stockholders may not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market. Our status as a controlled company could make our common stock less attractive to some investors or otherwise harm our stock price. We cannot predict the impact our dual class structure may have on our stock price or our business. We cannot predict whether our dual class structure, combined with the concentrated control of our stockholders who held our capital stock prior to the completion of our initial public offering, including our executive officers, employees and directors and their affiliates, will result in a lower or more volatile market price of our Class B common stock or in adverse publicity or other adverse consequences. For example, certain index providers have announced restrictions on including companies with multiple-class share structures in certain of their indexes. In July 2017, FTSE Russell announced that it plans to require new constituents of its indexes to have greater than 5% of the company's voting rights in the hands of public stockholders, and S&P Dow Jones announced that it will no longer admit companies with multiple-class share structures to certain of its indexes. Because of our dual class structure, we will likely be excluded from these indexes and we cannot assure you that other stock indexes will not take similar actions. Given the sustained flow of investment funds into passive strategies that seek to track certain indexes, exclusion from stock indexes would likely preclude investment by many of these funds and could make our 42 Class B common stock less attractive to other investors. As a result, the market price of our Class B common stock could be adversely affected. The market price of our Class B common stock may be volatile, and the value of your investment could decline significantly. The trading price of our Class B common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control. The following factors, in addition to other risks described in this report, may have a significant effect on our Class B common stock price: actual or anticipated fluctuations in revenue and other operating results, including as a result of the addition or loss of any number of customers; announcements by us or competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in ratings, key metrics and financial estimates and the publication of other news by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these analyst estimates or the expectations of investors; changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of cloud-based software or other technology companies, or those in our industry in particular; the size of our public float; price and volume fluctuations in the trading of our Class B common stock and in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole or in the technology industry; new laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations applicable to our business or industry, including those relating to data privacy and data security; lawsuits threatened or filed against us for claims relating to intellectual property, employment issues or otherwise; changes in our board of directors or management; short sales, hedging and other derivative transactions involving our Class B common stock; sales of large blocks of our common stock including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and other events or factors, including changes in general economic, industry and market conditions and trends, as well as any natural disasters that may affect our operations. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect our stock price, regardless of our actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock shortly following our initial public offering. In addition, in the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose stock prices have declined, especially following periods of volatility in the overall market. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our managements attention and resources. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research reports about our business, or if they issue an adverse opinion about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our Class B common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us issues an adverse opinion about our company, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of us or fails to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. 43 Future sales of our Class B common stock in the public market could cause our stock price to fall. Our stock price could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares after our initial public offering or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of January 31, 2019 , 23,434,542 shares of our Class B common stock were outstanding. All shares of our Class B common stock sold in our initial public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act unless held by our affiliates, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The shares of Class B common stock subject to outstanding options and warrants, of which 1,709,661 and 132,062 were exercisable as of January 31, 2019 , respectively, and the shares reserved for future issuance under our equity incentive plans will become available for sale immediately upon the exercise of such options, subject to applicable securities law restrictions. Additionally, sell-to-cover transactions are utilized in connection with the vesting and settlement of restricted stock units so that shares of our common stock are sold on behalf of our employees in an amount sufficient to cover the tax withholding obligations associated with these awards. As a result of these transactions, a significant number of shares of our stock may be sold over a limited time period in connection with significant vesting events. In June 2019, for example, approximately 114,697 restricted stock units are scheduled to vest and settle, which may increase the volume of our shares that would otherwise be sold during this time. On June 29, 2018, we registered the offer and sale of all shares of common stock that we may issue under our equity compensation plans. As a consequence, the sale of shares to be issued under our equity incentive plans can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the lockup agreements and the restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The holders of 14,098,937 shares, or approximately 53% , of our Class A and Class B common stock as of January 31, 2019 have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements covering the sale of their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. Once we register the offer and sale of shares for the holders of registration rights, they can be freely sold in the public market upon issuance, subject to the lock-up agreements and the restrictions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act, in the case of our affiliates. As of January 31, 2019, Cocolalla, LLC, an entity controlled by Mr. James, owned 3,263,659 shares of our Class A common stock and Mr. James owned 100,000 shares of Class B common stock. Collectively, these shares represent approximately 85% of the voting power of our company. These shares are eligible for resale into the public market within the restrictions imposed by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Sales of a significant amount of these shares could adversely affect the market price for our Class B common stock. Mr. James has informed us he and Cocolalla, LLC have entered into an arrangement under which he has pledged all of such shares to secure a loan with a financial institution , which Mr. James believes represents a convenient financial instrument . Mr. James has also indicated th is loan has or will have various requirements to repay all or a portion of the loan upon the occurrence of various events, including when the price of the Class B common stock goes below certain specified levels. Mr. James has indicated that (1) he has substantial assets other than shares of our common stock and (2) if repayment of the loan is triggered there is a cure period to sell assets or restructure the loan. Although Mr. James has indicated his intention to sell other assets if necessary, shares of our common stock may need to be sold to meet these repayment requirements. Upon a default under such loan following any applicable cure period , the lender could sell the pledged shares into the market without limitation on volume or manner of sale. Sales of such shares to reduce the loan balance or by the lender upon foreclosure are likely to adversely affect our stock price. Mr. James has also indicated to us that he may in the future from time to time refinance such indebtedness, enter into derivative transactions based on the value of our Class B common stock, dispose of shares of common stock, otherwise monetize shares of his common stock and/or engage in other transactions relating to shares of our common stock and/or other securities of the company. Any of these activities may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Mr. James has also indicated that he intends to (1) continue to beneficially own a majority of the Class A common stock that he currently beneficially owns and (2) continue to control at least a majority of the voting power of our company. In addition, in the future, we may issue additional shares of Class B common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into common stock in connection with a financing, acquisition, litigation settlement, employee arrangement or otherwise. Any such issuance could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause our stock price to decline. We have broad discretion to use the net proceeds from our initial public offering, and our investment of these proceeds may not yield a favorable return. We may invest the proceeds of our initial public offering in ways you disagree with. Our management has broad discretion as to how to spend and invest the proceeds from our initial public offering, and we may spend or invest these proceeds in a way with which our stockholders may disagree. Accordingly, you will need to rely on our judgment with respect to the use of these proceeds. We expect to use the net proceeds from our initial public offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes, which we currently expect will include continued investment in developing 44 technology to support our growth, increased investment in our sales team and marketing activities, as well as overall growth in our international operations. We could spend the proceeds from our initial public offering in ways that our stockholders may not agree with or that do not yield a favorable return. You will not have the opportunity as part of your investment decision to assess whether the net proceeds are being used appropriately and will need to rely upon the judgment of our management with respect to the use of proceeds. If we do not use the net proceeds that we receive in our initial public offering effectively, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be harmed, and the market price of our Class B common stock could decline. An active trading market for our Class B common stock may not develop. Prior to our initial public offering, there was no public market for our Class B common stock, and an active trading market for our shares may never develop or be sustained following our initial public offering. In addition, we may have one or more stockholders who continue to hold substantial blocks of our Class B common stock for sustained periods following our initial public offering. As a result, the trading volume of our stock may be low relative to our total outstanding shares. As a result of these and other factors, you may be unable to resell your shares of our Class B common stock at a price that you consider reasonable. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit our stock price. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our control or change in our management, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares, or transactions that our stockholders might otherwise deem to be in their best interests. These provisions include the following: our dual-class common stock structure, which provides our holders of Class A common stock with the ability to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, even if they own significantly less than a majority of the shares of our outstanding Class A common stock and Class B common stock; when the outstanding shares of Class A common stock represent less than a majority of the total combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock, or the voting threshold date, our board of directors will be classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms, and directors will only be able to be removed from office for cause; our amended and restated bylaws provide that, following the voting threshold date, approval of stockholders holding two-thirds of our outstanding voting power voting as a single class will be required for stockholders to amend or adopt any provision of our bylaws; our stockholders are able to take action by written consent for any matter until the voting threshold date; following the voting threshold date, vacancies on our board of directors will be able to be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders; only the chairman of our board of directors, chief executive officer, a majority of our board of directors or, until the voting threshold date, a stockholder (or group of stockholders) holding at least 50% of the combined voting power of our Class A and Class B common stock are authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; certain litigation against us can only be brought in Delaware; our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued, without the approval of the holders of common stock; and advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an interested stockholder. See Description of Capital Stock. 45 Our amended and restated bylaws designate a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for (1) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (2) any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, or other employees to us or our stockholders, (3) any action arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the certificate of incorporation or the amended and restated bylaws or (4) any other action asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine shall be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware), in all cases subject to the court having jurisdiction over indispensable parties named as defendants. Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in any of our securities shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to this provision. This exclusive-forum provision may limit a stockholders ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum of its choosing for disputes with us or our directors, officers, or other employees, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, and other employees. If a court were to find this exclusive-forum provision in our amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, which could harm our results of operations. Our amended and restated bylaws also provide that the federal district courts of the United States of America will be the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act. In December 2018, the Delaware Court of Chancery issued a decision in Matthew Sciabacucchi v. Matthew B. Salzberg et al. , C.A. No. 2017-0931-JTL (Del. Ch.), finding that such provisions such as the federal forum provision are not valid under Delaware law. In light of this decision of the Delaware Court of Chancery, we do not intend to enforce the federal forum provision in our amended and restated bylaws unless and until such time there is a final determination by the Delaware Supreme Court regarding the validity of such provisions. To the extent the Delaware Supreme Court makes a final determination that provisions such as the federal forum provision are not valid as a matter of Delaware law, we intend to amend our bylaws to remove the federal forum provision. As an emerging growth company within the meaning of the Securities Act, we will use certain modified disclosure requirements, and we cannot be certain if these reduced requirements will make our Class B common stock less attractive to investors. We are an emerging growth company, and for as long as we continue to be an emerging growth company, we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to emerging growth companies including: not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements; and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We plan in future filings with the SEC to continue to use the modified disclosure requirements available to emerging growth companies. As a result, our stockholders may not have access to certain information they may deem important. In addition, Section 107 of the JOBS Act also provides that an emerging growth company can use the extended transition period provided in Section 7(a)(2)(B) of the Securities Act for complying with new or revised accounting standards. Thus, an emerging growth company can delay the adoption of certain accounting standards until those standards would otherwise apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period under the JOBS Act. As a result, our consolidated financial statements may not be comparable to the financial statements of issuers who are required to comply with the effective dates for new or revised accounting standards that are applicable to public companies, which may make our Class B common stock less attractive to investors. 46 We could remain an emerging growth company for up to five years following the first sale of our common stock pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, or until the earliest of: the last day of the first fiscal year in which our annual gross revenue exceeds $1.07 billion; the date that we become a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, which would occur if the market value of our Class B common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of the last business day of our most recently completed second fiscal quarter; or the date on which we have issued more than $1 billion in non-convertible debt during the preceding three-year period. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs by being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with public company reporting requirements. We have incurred and will continue to incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements of the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market. We expect these rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also expect these rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, we may have more difficulty attracting and retaining qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. So long as we remain an emerging growth company, we expect to avail ourselves of the exemption from the requirement that our independent registered public accounting firm attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404. When our independent registered public accounting firm is required to undertake an assessment of our internal control over financial reporting, the cost of our compliance with Section 404 will correspondingly increase. Moreover, if we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 applicable to us in a timely manner, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. 47 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 2. Properties Our headquarters is located in American Fork, Utah. Our current facility has approximately 54,000 square feet under a lease that expires in April 2020. We also lease space in various locations throughout the United States for sales and professional services personnel. Our foreign subsidiaries lease office space for their operations and sales and professional services personnel. We believe the facilities we lease are sufficient to meet our needs for the immediate future. Item 3. Legal Proceedings As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not a party to any material legal proceedings. In the normal course of business, we may be named as a party to various legal claims, actions and complaints. We cannot predict whether any resulting liability would have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures Not applicable. PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information for Our Class B Common Stock Our Class B common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol DOMO on June 29, 2018. Prior to that date, there was no public trading market for our Class B common stock. Our Class A common stock is not listed or traded on any stock exchange. Holders of Record As of January 31, 2019 , there was one holder of record of our Class A common stock and 301 holders of record of our Class B common stock. The actual number of stockholders is greater than this number of record holders and includes stockholders who are beneficial owners but whose shares are held in street name by brokers and other nominees. Dividend Policy We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans The information required by this item with respect to our equity compensation plans is incorporated by reference in our Proxy Statement for the 2019 Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days of the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019 . Stock Performance Graph The following performance graph and related information is "furnished" and shall not be deemed to be "soliciting material" or "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act and Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any filing of Domo, Inc. under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference in such filing. The graph set forth below compares the cumulative total return to stockholders on our Class B common stock relative to the cumulative total returns of the Standard & Poors 500 Index, or the S&P 500, and the S&P 500 Information Technology Index between June 29, 2018 (the date our Class B common stock commenced trading) through January 31, 2019 . All values assume a $100 initial investment at market close on June 29, 2018. The initial public offering price of our Class B common stock, which had a closing stock price of $27.30 on June 29, 2018, was $21.00 per share. Data for the S&P 500 and the S&P 48 500 Information Technology Index assume reinvestment of dividends. The comparisons are based on historical data and are not indicative of, nor intended to forecast, the future performance of our Class B common stock. Comparison of Cumulative Total Return Company/Index Jun 29, 2018 (1) Jul 31, 2018 Aug 31, 2018 Sep 30, 2018 Oct 31, 2018 Nov 30, 2018 Dec 31, 2018 Jan 31, 2019 Domo, Inc. $ 100 $ 61 $ 86 $ 79 $ 59 $ 58 $ 72 $ 99 S&P 500 100 104 107 107 100 102 92 99 S&P 500 Information Technology 100 102 109 108 100 98 89 95 (1) Base period Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities and Use of Proceeds Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities In January 2019, we amended and restated warrants to purchase an aggregate of 66,664 shares of our Class B common stock at an exercise price of $45.00 per share to be exercisable for an aggregate of 125,000 shares of Class B common stock at an exercise price of $17.8736 per share. Use of Proceeds In July 2018, we closed our initial public offering, in which we sold 10,580,000 shares of Class B common stock at a price to the public of $21.00 per share, including shares sold in connection with the exercise of the underwriters option to purchase additional shares. The offer and sale of all of the shares in the initial public offering were registered under the Securities Act pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-225348), which was declared effective by the SEC on June 28, 2018. We raised $202.5 million in net proceeds after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions of $15.6 million and offering expenses of $4.1 million. No payments were made by us to directors, officers or persons owning 10% or more of our capital stock or to their associates, or to our affiliates, other than payments in the ordinary course of business to officers for salaries. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our initial public offering as described in the prospectus, dated June 28, 2018, relating to our initial public offering. We invested the funds received in accordance with our board approved investment policy, which provides for investments in obligations of the U.S. government, money market instruments, registered money market funds and corporate bonds. The managing underwriters of our initial public offering were Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Allen & Company LLC, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and UBS Securities LLC. There has been no material change in the planned use of proceeds from our initial public offering as described in our final prospectus filed with the SEC on June 28, 2018 pursuant to Rule 424(b)(4) under the Securities Act. 49 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. 50 Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The consolidated statement of operations data for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 and the consolidated balance sheet data as of January 31, 2018 and 2019 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The consolidated balance sheet data as of January 31, 2017 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements not included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of our future results, and the results of operations for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected in the future. The selected consolidated financial data in this section are not intended to replace our consolidated financial statements and the related notes, and are qualified in their entirety by the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Consolidated Statements of Operations Data Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 2019 (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 58,664 $ 87,463 $ 117,157 Professional services and other 15,876 21,061 25,307 Total revenue 74,540 108,524 142,464 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1) 21,486 32,427 32,781 Professional services and other (1) 11,709 12,492 16,773 Total cost of revenue 33,195 44,919 49,554 Gross profit 41,345 63,605 92,910 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 118,935 131,802 131,081 Research and development (1) 76,164 78,261 75,740 General and administrative (1)(2)(3) 29,106 29,323 30,176 Total operating expenses 224,205 239,386 236,997 Loss from operations (182,860 ) (175,781 ) (144,087 ) Other income (expense), net (1) 513 (396 ) (8,974 ) Loss before income taxes (182,347 ) (176,177 ) (153,061 ) Provision for income taxes 773 385 1,248 Net loss $ (183,120 ) $ (176,562 ) $ (154,309 ) Net loss per share, basic and diluted $ (124.90 ) $ (110.70 ) $ (9.43 ) Weighted-average number of shares used in computing net loss per share, basic and diluted 1,466 1,595 16,358 51 ________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 2019 (in thousands) Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 46 $ 48 $ 219 Professional services and other 45 40 154 Sales and marketing 1,930 1,845 7,387 Research and development 2,206 2,311 6,519 General and administrative 5,099 5,090 7,492 Other income (expense), net 17 36 30 Total $ 9,343 $ 9,370 $ 21,801 (2) Includes amortization of certain intangible assets of $0.3 million , $0.1 million and $0.1 million for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively . (3) Includes reversal of a contingent tax-related accrual of $3.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2019. Consolidated Balance Sheet Data As of January 31, 2017 2018 2019 (in thousands) Cash and cash equivalents $ 68,984 $ 61,972 $ 176,973 Working capital (deficit) 5,762 (15,000 ) 107,047 Total assets 137,922 155,355 292,632 Deferred revenue, current and non-current 49,936 70,956 93,902 Long-term debt 46,332 97,245 Convertible preferred stock 594,187 693,158 Total stockholders' (deficit) equity (556,196 ) (721,964 ) 44,527 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes that are included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K . This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current plans, expectations and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under "Risk Factors" and in other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K . Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal 2019, for example, refer to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2019. Overview We founded Domo in 2010 with the vision of digitally connecting everyone within the enterprise with real-time, rich, relevant data and then encouraging all employees to collaborate and act. We realized that many organizations were unable to access the massive amounts of data that they were collecting in siloed cloud applications and on-premise databases. Furthermore, even for organizations that were capable of accessing their data, the process for doing so was time-consuming, costly, and often resulted in the data being out-of-date by the time it reached decision makers. The delivery format, including alert functionality, and devices were not adequate for the connected and real-time mobile workforce. Based on these observations, it was apparent that all organizations, regardless of size or industry, were failing to unlock the power of all of their people, data and systems. 52 Since inception, we have focused on creating a comprehensive platform that connects all the people, data and systems that exist within an organization. In many ways, building Domo was like building seven start-ups in one. A foundational element of our platform is our more than 1,000 powerful first-class connectors, which we define as read/write, API and standards based connectors, as well as a library of very flexible universal connectors, that currently power over four hundred thousand Domo datasets, which integrate directly with data sources in real time on a single, intuitive platform. Adrenaline, our data warehouse and fast query engine, stores massive amounts of data connected from across the business, enabling anyone to quickly access the data they need. To best prepare and transform all of the connected data, a critical step in making that data available and usable for visualizations and analysis, we developed Domo ETL, a self-service toolset that enables users, regardless of technical ability, to cleanse and prepare data for analysis. To facilitate data insights, we developed an analysis and visualization toolkit that enables all employees to analyze, display, share and interact with data across mobile and desktop platforms in real time. Domo Buzz, our collaborative communication platform, helps foster and engage a curious workforce so that anyone in an organization can participate in improving the business. Domo leverages machine learning algorithms, predictive analytics, and other artificial intelligence technologies, to create alerts, detect anomalies, optimize queries, and suggest areas of interest to help people focus on what matters most. We also extended the functionality and effectiveness of our platform, through the introduction of the Domo Appstore and developer toolkits that enable a partner ecosystem to quickly build applications on the platform. We continue to broaden our platform's ease of use and self-service capabilities and enhance security and scalability requirements for the enterprise. We offer our platform to our customers as a subscription-based service. Subscription fees are based on the number of users and the tier of package deployed. Business leaders and managers are typically the initial subscribers to our platform, deploying it for a specific use case or department. Over time, as customers recognize the value of our platform, we increasingly engage with CIOs and other executives to facilitate broad enterprise adoption. A majority of our customers subscribe to our services through one-year contracts, but recently a growing percentage of new and existing customers have entered into multi-year contracts. In the year ended January 31, 2019 , 43% of our new customers entered into multi-year contracts compared to 38% and 11% in the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2017 , respectively. As of January 31, 2019 , 42% of all customers were under multi-year contracts and 58% of all customers were under one-year contracts. By comparison, 32% of all customers were under multi-year contracts and 68% of all customers were under one-year contracts as of January 31, 2018 . This transition to a higher percentage of multi-year contracts, among both new and existing customers, has enhanced the predictability of our subscription revenue. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance. Our business model focuses on maximizing the lifetime value of a customer relationship. We recognize subscription revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. In general, customer acquisition costs and other upfront costs associated with new customers are much higher in the first year than the aggregate revenue we recognize from those new customers in the first year. Over the lifetime of the customer relationship, we also incur sales and marketing costs to renew or increase usage per customer. However, these costs, as a percentage of revenue, are significantly less than those initially incurred to acquire the customer. As a result, the profitability of a customer to our business in any particular period depends in part upon how long a customer has been a subscriber and the degree to which it has expanded its usage of our platform. Our platform addresses the diverse and evolving needs of employees. Historically, our sales and marketing efforts have been concentrated on initiatives, including digital marketing, which allowed us to quickly attract a large number of customers and establish our platform in a crowded market. These initial efforts were primarily targeted toward small and medium sized businesses, with smaller average annual contract values, or ACV, and lower renewal rates. Over time, the breadth of our platform's capabilities attracted an increasing number of enterprise customers, and we have continued to expand our presence within those customers. Given the higher average ACV and renewal rates we experience with larger customers, we are focusing on customers with over $100 million in revenue, with a particular emphasis on enterprise customers, which we define as customers with over $1 billion in revenue. With a view towards improving sales efficiency, we have shifted our strategy from broad-based digital marketing to enterprise-targeted marketing campaigns and user events to increase our growth with enterprise customers. From inception through January 31, 2019 , we have invested $395.0 million in the development of our platform. Given our investments, we believe that we are well positioned to expand the number of, and increase contract values with enterprise customers. We have also introduced tools that allow customers to manage their own encryption keys and maintain a broad array of security and compliance certifications that enterprise customers require, particularly those in regulated industries. As of January 31, 2019 , we had 236 employees in our research and development organization. While we expect research and development expenses to increase in absolute dollars, we anticipate that it will decrease as a percentage of revenue over time. For the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , we had total revenue of $74.5 million , $108.5 million and $142.5 million , respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 46% and 31% for the years ended January 31, 2018 and 2019 , 53 respectively. For the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue, nor did any single organization when accounting for multiple subsidiaries or divisions which may have been invoiced separately. Revenue from customers with billing addresses in the United States comprised 86% , 82% and 77% of our total revenue for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively. We are focused on growing our international business and will continue to invest in sales operations outside the United States. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including net losses of $183.1 million , $176.6 million and $154.3 million for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively, and had an accumulated deficit of $912.1 million at January 31, 2019 . We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Recent Developments On July 3, 2018, we closed our initial public offering, or IPO, in which we issued and sold 10,580,000 shares of Class B common stock at $21.00 per share for aggregate net proceeds of $202.5 million , after deducting underwriters' discounts and offering expenses payable by us. In January 2019, we entered into an amendment to our $100.0 million credit facility which extended the maturity date for all outstanding loans to October 1, 2022. The amendment also revised the maximum debt ratio financial covenant, increased the amount of the closing fee to $7.0 million, and increased the number of warrants to purchase Class B common stock. Factors Affecting Performance Continue to Attract New Customers We believe that our ability to expand our customer base is an important indicator of market penetration, the growth of our business, and future business opportunities. We define a customer at the end of any particular quarter as an entity that generated revenue greater than $2,500 during that quarter. In situations where an organization has multiple subsidiaries or divisions, each entity that is invoiced at a separate billing address is treated as a separate customer. In cases where customers purchase through a reseller, each end customer is counted separately. As of January 31, 2019 , we had over 1,700 customers. From January 31, 2014 to January 31, 2019 , the number of our customers with revenue over $1 billion increased from 36 to 447 , representing a 66% compound annual growth rate. For the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , our enterprise customers accounted for 47% , 46% and 45% of our revenue, respectively. We focus our sales and marketing resources on obtaining customers with over $100 million in revenue, with a particular emphasis on enterprise customers. In order to accelerate customer growth, we intend to further develop our partner ecosystem by establishing agreements with more software resellers, systems integrators and implementation partners to provide broader customer and geographic coverage. We believe we are underpenetrated in the overall market and have significant opportunity to expand our customer base over time. Customer Upsell and Retention We employ a land and expand sales model, and our performance depends on our ability to retain customers and expand the number of users and use cases at existing customers over time. It currently takes multiple years for our customers to fully embrace the power of our platform. We believe that as customers deploy greater volumes and sources of data for multiple use cases, the unique features of our platform can address the needs of everyone within their organization. We are still in the early stages of expanding within many of our customers. We have invested in platform capabilities and online support resources that allow our customers to expand the use of our platform in a self-guided manner. Our professional services, customer support and customer success functions also support our sales force by helping customers to successfully deploy our platform and implement additional use cases. In addition, we believe our partner ecosystem will become increasingly important over time. We work closely with our customers to drive increased engagement with our platform by identifying new use cases through our customer success teams, as well as in-platform, self-guided experiences. We actively engage with our customers to assess whether they are satisfied and fully realizing the benefits of our platform. While these efforts often require a substantial commitment and upfront costs, we believe our investment in product, customer support, customer success and professional services will create opportunities to expand our customer relationships over time. Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends heavily on our ability to retain our customers and increase their usage of our platform. An important way that we measure our performance in this area is to track the growth in 54 our subscription revenue generated from a cohort of customers over time. With that objective in mind, we allocate our customer success and customer support resources to align with maximizing the retention and expansion of our subscription revenue. Our subscription net revenue retention rate compares the subscription revenue in a given period from the cohort of customers that generated subscription revenue at the beginning of the same period in the prior fiscal year, excluding customers from the cohort who canceled during the prior period. The subscription net revenue retention rate is the quotient obtained by dividing the subscription revenue generated from that cohort in a period, by the subscription revenue generated from that same cohort in the corresponding prior year period. The following table sets forth our subscription net revenue retention rate for each of the eight quarters in the period ended January 31, 2019 : Q1 2018 Q2 2018 Q3 2018 Q4 2018 Q1 2019 Q2 2019 Q3 2019 Q4 2019 All Customers 101 % 107 % 107 % 111 % 105 % 105 % 106 % 103 % Enterprise Customers 108 122 116 122 115 109 110 106 Non-Enterprise Customers 95 95 99 102 98 101 102 101 Our gross subscription dollars churned is equal to the amount of subscription revenue we lost in the current period from the cohort of customers who generated subscription revenue in the prior year period. In the year ended January 31, 2019 , we lost $15.4 million of subscription revenue generated by the cohort in the prior year period, or 18% of subscription revenue for the year ended January 31, 2018 . Of this amount, $6.5 million was lost from our cohort of enterprise customers and $8.9 million was lost from our cohort of non-enterprise customers. By comparison, in the year ended January 31, 2018 , we lost $12.4 million of subscription revenue generated by the cohort in the prior year period, or 21% of subscription revenue for the year ended January 31, 2017 . Of this amount, $5.0 million was lost from our cohort of enterprise customers and $7.4 million was lost from our cohort of non-enterprise customers. As we continue to enhance our product and develop methods to encourage wider and more strategic adoptions, including shifting our sales and marketing activities towards enterprise customers, we expect that our subscription net revenue retention rate will increase over the long term; however, our ability to successfully upsell and the impact of cancellations may vary from period to period, with greater variability on a quarterly basis, particularly among our cohort of enterprise customers, due to fewer customers in this cohort compared to non-enterprise customers, higher average contract values and more significant expansion opportunities. The extent of this variability depends on a number of factors including the size and timing of upsells and cancellations relative to the initial subscriptions. Sales and Marketing Efficiency We are focused on increasing the efficiency of our sales force and marketing activities by enhancing account targeting, messaging, field sales operations and sales training in order to reduce our sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue and accelerate the adoption of our platform. Our sales strategy depends on our ability to continue to attract top talent, increasing our pipeline of business, and enhancing sales productivity. We focus on productivity per quota-carrying sales representative and the time it takes our sales representatives to reach full productivity. The ACV per sales representative per year increased by approximately 11% from January 31, 2018 to January 31, 2019 and 14% from January 31, 2017 to January 31, 2018 . We manage our pipeline by sales representative to ensure sufficient coverage of our sales targets. Our ability to manage our sales productivity and pipeline are important factors to the success of our business. We also intend to shift marketing spending from broad based initiatives that are better suited to attracting smaller organizations towards enterprise-targeted marketing campaigns and user events that we believe will result in larger initial new customer ACV and more upsell ACV potential. Leverage Research and Development Investments for Future Growth Historically, given building Domo was like building seven start-ups in one, we had to make significant investments in research and development to build a platform that powers a business and provides enterprises with features and functionality that they require. We plan to continue to make investments in areas of our business to continue to expand our platform functionality. However, the amount of new investments required to achieve our plans is expected to decrease as a percentage of revenue compared to historical years. 55 Key Business Metric Billings Billings represent our total revenue plus the change in deferred revenue in a period. Billings reflect sales to new customers plus subscription renewals and upsells to existing customers, and represent amounts invoiced for subscription, support and professional services. We typically invoice customers in advance in annual installments for subscriptions to our platform. Because we generate most of our revenue from customers who are invoiced on an annual basis and have a wide range of annual contract values, we may experience variability due to typical enterprise buying patterns and timing of large renewals. The following table sets forth our billings for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 : Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 2019 Billings (in thousands) $ 92,412 $ 129,544 $ 165,410 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We offer subscriptions to our cloud-based platform. We derive our revenue primarily from subscriptions and professional services. Subscription revenue consists primarily of fees to provide our customers access to our cloud-based platform, which includes online customer support resources at no additional cost. Professional service fees include implementation services, optimization services, and training. Subscription revenue accounted for approximately 79% , 81% and 82% of our revenue for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively. Subscription revenue is a function of the number of customers, the number of users at each customer, and the price per user. Subscription revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual term beginning on the date the platform is made available to the customer. Our new business subscriptions typically have a term of one to three years, and we generally invoice our customers in annual installments at the beginning of each year in the subscription period. Amounts that have been invoiced are initially recorded as deferred revenue and are recognized ratably over the subscription period. Professional services and other revenue consists of implementation services sold with new subscriptions, as well as professional services sold separately, including training and education. Professional services are generally billed in advance and revenue from these arrangements is recognized as the services are performed. Our professional services engagements typically span from a few weeks to several months. Cost of Revenue Cost of subscription revenue consists primarily of third-party hosting services and data center capacity; salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, or employee-related costs, directly associated with cloud infrastructure and customer support personnel; amortization expense associated with capitalized software development costs; depreciation expense associated with computer equipment and software; certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology and services; and allocated overhead. Allocated overhead includes items such as information technology infrastructure, rent, and certain employee benefit costs. Cost of professional services and other revenue consists primarily of employee-related costs directly associated with these services, third-party consultant fees, and allocated overhead. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing staff and commissions. Other sales and marketing costs include digital marketing programs and promotional events to promote our brand, including Domopalooza, our annual user conference, as well as tradeshows, advertising and allocated overhead. Contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions, are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit, which we have determined to be approximately four years for initial contracts. Contract 56 acquisition costs related to renewal contracts and professional services are recorded as expense when incurred if the period of benefit is one year or less. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs for the design and development of our platform, contractor costs to supplement staff levels, third-party web services, consulting services, and allocated overhead. Our cycle of frequent updates has facilitated rapid innovation and the introduction of new product features throughout our history. We capitalize certain software development costs that are attributable to developing new features and adding incremental functionality to our platform, and amortize such costs as costs of subscription revenue over the estimated life of the new feature or incremental functionality, which is generally three years. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for executive, finance, legal, human resources, recruiting and administrative personnel; professional fees for external legal, accounting, recruiting and other consulting services; and allocated overhead costs. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net consists primarily of interest expense related to long-term debt and interest income earned on our cash and cash equivalents. It also includes the effect of exchange rates on foreign currency transaction gains and losses as well as foreign currency gains and losses upon remeasurement of intercompany balances. The transactional impacts of foreign currency are recorded as foreign currency losses (gains) in the consolidated statements of operations. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Because of the uncertainty of the realization of the deferred tax assets, we have a full valuation allowance for domestic net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. 57 Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 2019 (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 58,664 $ 87,463 $ 117,157 Professional services and other 15,876 21,061 25,307 Total revenue 74,540 108,524 142,464 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1) 21,486 32,427 32,781 Professional services and other (1) 11,709 12,492 16,773 Total cost of revenue 33,195 44,919 49,554 Gross profit 41,345 63,605 92,910 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 118,935 131,802 131,081 Research and development (1) 76,164 78,261 75,740 General and administrative (1)(2)(3) 29,106 29,323 30,176 Total operating expenses 224,205 239,386 236,997 Loss from operations (182,860 ) (175,781 ) (144,087 ) Other income (expense), net (1) 513 (396 ) (8,974 ) Loss before income taxes (182,347 ) (176,177 ) (153,061 ) Provision for income taxes 773 385 1,248 Net loss $ (183,120 ) $ (176,562 ) $ (154,309 ) ________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 2019 (in thousands) Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 46 $ 48 $ 219 Professional services and other 45 40 154 Sales and marketing 1,930 1,845 7,387 Research and development 2,206 2,311 6,519 General and administrative 5,099 5,090 7,492 Other income (expense), net 17 36 30 Total $ 9,343 $ 9,370 $ 21,801 (2) Includes amortization of certain intangible assets of $0.3 million , $0.1 million and $0.1 million for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 , respectively . (3) Includes reversal of a contingent tax-related accrual of $3.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2019. 58 Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 2019 Revenue: Subscription 79 % 81 % 82 % Professional services and other 21 19 18 Total revenue 100 100 100 Cost of revenue: Subscription 29 30 23 Professional services and other 16 12 12 Total cost of revenue 45 42 35 Gross margin 55 58 65 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 160 121 92 Research and development 102 72 53 General and administrative 39 27 21 Total operating expenses 301 220 166 Loss from operations (246 ) (162 ) (101 ) Other income (expense), net 1 (6 ) Loss before income taxes (245 ) (162 ) (107 ) Provision for income taxes 1 1 Net loss (246 )% (162 )% (108 )% Discussion of the Years Ended January 31, 2018 and 2019 Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2018 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 87,463 $ 117,157 $ 29,694 34 % Professional services and other 21,061 25,307 4,246 20 Total revenue $ 108,524 $ 142,464 $ 33,940 31 Percentage of revenue: Subscription 81 % 82 % Professional services and other 19 18 Total 100 % 100 % Total revenue was $142.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $108.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , an increase of $33.9 million , or 31% . Subscription revenue was $117.2 million , or 82% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $87.5 million , or 81% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase in subscription revenue was primarily due to a $23.4 million increase from new customers and a $6.3 million increase from existing customers. Our customer count increased 15% from January 31, 2018 to January 31, 2019 . We anticipate that as we continue to close new business and retain our customers that subscription revenue will continue to increase as a percent of total revenue. Professional services and other revenue was $25.3 million , or 18% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $21.1 million , or 19% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2018 . This increase is due to a higher volume of implementation and training services provided to our customers. 59 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year Ended January 31, 2018 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 32,427 $ 32,781 $ 354 1 % Professional services and other 12,492 16,773 4,281 34 Total cost of revenue $ 44,919 $ 49,554 $ 4,635 10 Gross profit $ 63,605 $ 92,910 $ 29,305 46 Gross margin: Subscription 63 % 72 % Professional services and other 41 34 Total gross margin 59 65 Cost of subscription revenue was $32.8 million for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $32.4 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , an increase of $0.4 million , or 1% . The majority of the increase in cost of subscription revenue was due to employee-related costs, which increased by $2.1 million primarily as a result of salary increases. Other increases included $0.9 million related to our data center and $0.7 million in amortization of capitalized software development costs. These increases were offset by a decrease of $3.3 million related to optimization of our third-party hosting services. Cost of professional services and other revenue was $16.8 million for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $12.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 . This increase is primarily due to a higher volume of services provided by third-party consultants related to implementation and training. Subscription gross margin improved due to economies of scale driven by increased subscription revenue and cost improvements due to more proactive management and optimization of our third-party hosting services. We expect subscription gross margin to improve as we continue to effectively manage our data center operations and third-party hosting services. Services gross margin declined due to heavier use of third-party consultants to perform services for our customers. In addition, rates for these consultants have increased from the prior year. While we expect the cost of professional services will decline as a percentage of total revenue over the long term as our business scales and as we continue to develop our partner ecosystem, such costs could fluctuate from period to period depending on the mix of our customer base, particularly if in a given period we have a concentration of large professional services projects that we delivered which are typically associated with enterprise customers. Operating Expenses Year Ended January 31, 2018 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 131,802 $ 131,081 $ (721 ) (1 )% Research and development 78,261 75,740 (2,521 ) (3 ) General and administrative 29,323 30,176 853 3 Total operating expenses $ 239,386 $ 236,997 $ (2,389 ) (1 ) Percentage of revenue: Sales and marketing 121 % 92 % Research and development 72 53 General and administrative 27 21 60 Sales and marketing expenses were $131.1 million for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $131.8 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , a decrease of $0.7 million , or 1% . The change was primarily due to a $10.2 million decrease in marketing programs and event costs. This decrease was offset by an increase of $8.2 million in employee-related costs, including $5.6 million of stock-based compensation related to the performance vesting condition of certain RSUs, which was deemed probable of being satisfied upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our initial public offering, or IPO, and $2.6 million attributable to higher headcount and salary increases. Other increases included commission expense, which increased by $0.7 million due to higher sales, and travel expense, which increased by $0.4 million. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 121% in the year ended January 31, 2018 to 92% in the year ended January 31, 2019 . We expect sales and marketing expense to continue to decline as a percentage of total revenue in the long term. Research and development expenses were $75.7 million for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $78.3 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , a decrease of $2.5 million , or 3% . Employee-related costs increased by $4.2 million due to stock-based compensation related to the performance vesting condition of certain RSUs, which was deemed probable of being satisfied upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. This increase was offset by a $3.6 million increase in capitalized software development costs (resulting in decreased expense) and a decrease of $3.0 million in third-party web services for internal use. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenue decreased from 72% in the year ended January 31, 2018 to 53% in the year ended January 31, 2019 . We expect research and development expense to continue to decline as a percentage of total revenue in the long term as we leverage previous investments in our research and development organization. General and administrative expenses were $30.2 million for the year ended January 31, 2019 , compared to $29.3 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , an increase of $0.9 million , or 3% . Employee-related costs increased by $3.3 million, including $2.4 million of stock-based compensation related to the performance vesting condition of certain RSUs, which was deemed probable of being satisfied upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO, and $0.9 million attributable to higher headcount and salary increases. Other increases included $0.8 million in costs associated with being a public company. These increases were offset by a $3.5 million reversal of a contingent tax-related accrual. General and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue decreased from 27% in the year ended January 31, 2018 to 21% in the year ended January 31, 2019 . In the long term, we expect general and administrative expense to decline as a percentage of total revenue as we leverage previous investments in our general and administrative organization; however, we expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars due to additional costs associated with operating as a public company including incremental costs for accounting, compliance, insurance, and investor relations. Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended January 31, 2018 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ (396 ) $ (8,974 ) $ (8,578 ) 2,166 % Other income (expense), net increased $8.6 million . This increase is primarily due to an increase in interest expense of $10.0 million related to the credit facility, offset by interest income on IPO proceeds of $2.1 million. In the short term, we expect interest expense to increase due to a higher debt balance and higher interest rates. 61 Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended January 31, 2018 2019 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 385 $ 1,248 $ 863 224 % Provision for income taxes increased $0.9 million due to the impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on the income tax provision for the year ended January 31, 2018 and expanded foreign operations during the year ended January 31, 2019 . We expect income tax expense to continue to increase in conjunction with growth in our international subsidiaries. Discussion of the Years Ended January 31, 2017 and 2018 Revenue Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 58,664 $ 87,463 $ 28,799 49 % Professional services and other 15,876 21,061 5,185 33 Total revenue $ 74,540 $ 108,524 $ 33,984 46 Percentage of revenue: Subscription 79 % 81 % Professional services and other 21 19 Total 100 % 100 % Total revenue was $108.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $74.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 , an increase of $34.0 million , or 46% . Subscription revenue was $87.5 million , or 81% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $58.7 million , or 79% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2017 . The increase in subscription revenue was primarily due to a $15.9 million increase from existing customers and a $12.9 million increase from new customers. Our customer count increased 27% from January 31, 2017 to January 31, 2018 . Professional services and other revenue was $21.1 million , or 19% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $15.9 million , or 21% of total revenue, for the year ended January 31, 2017 . This increase is due to a higher volume of implementation and training services provided to our customers. 62 Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 21,486 $ 32,427 $ 10,941 51 % Professional services and other 11,709 12,492 783 7 Total cost of revenue $ 33,195 $ 44,919 $ 11,724 35 Gross profit $ 41,345 $ 63,605 $ 22,260 54 Gross margin: Subscription 63 % 63 % Professional services and other 26 41 Total gross margin 56 59 Cost of subscription revenue was $32.4 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $21.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 , an increase of $10.9 million , or 51% . The increase in cost of subscription revenue was primarily due to an increase of $5.3 million in expanded use of our third-party hosting services by existing and new customers and $2.6 million in employee-related costs, as the average headcount in our cloud infrastructure and customer support organizations increased from 88 for the year ended January 31, 2017 to 102 for the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase was also attributable to an increase of $1.7 million in amortization of capitalized software developments costs, and an increase of $1.2 million related to allocated overhead and outside services costs driven by our overall growth. Cost of professional services and other revenue was $12.5 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $11.7 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 . This increase is primarily due to a higher volume of services provided by third-party consultants related to implementation and training. Subscription gross margin remained flat, while gross margin for professional services and other increased from 26% for the year ended January 31, 2017 to 41% for the year ended January 31, 2018 due to efficiencies gained in delivering our professional services. Operating Expenses Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 118,935 $ 131,802 $ 12,867 11 % Research and development 76,164 78,261 2,097 3 General and administrative 29,106 29,323 217 1 Total operating expenses $ 224,205 $ 239,386 $ 15,181 7 Percentage of revenue: Sales and marketing 160 % 121 % Research and development 102 72 General and administrative 39 27 Sales and marketing expenses were $131.8 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $118.9 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 , an increase of $12.9 million , or 11% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $11.2 million in marketing programs and event costs and $1.5 million in costs related to third party consulting. The increase was also attributable to an increase of $1.1 million in personnel costs as the average sales and marketing headcount increased from 289 for the year ended January 31, 2017 to 300 for the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase is partially offset by a decrease 63 of $1.7 million in commission expense primarily due to a decrease in the average commission rate relating to professional services. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenue decreased from 160% in the year ended January 31, 2017 to 121% in the year ended January 31, 2018 . Research and development expenses were $78.3 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $76.2 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 , an increase of $2.1 million , or 3% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $2.2 million in employee-related costs as discretionary bonuses increased by $1.4 million and our average research and development headcount increased from 257 during the year ended January 31, 2017 to 266 during the year ended January 31, 2018 . The increase was also attributable to a $2.8 million decrease in capitalized software development costs. The increase is partially offset by a decrease of $3.3 million in third-party web services for internal use. Research and development expense as a percentage of revenue decreased from 102% in the year ended January 31, 2017 to 72% in the year ended January 31, 2018 . General and administrative expenses were $29.3 million for the year ended January 31, 2018 , compared to $29.1 million for the year ended January 31, 2017 , an increase of $0.2 million , or 1% . The increase was primarily due to an increase of $1.3 million in employee-related costs as we prepare to operate as a public company. The increase was partially offset by a decrease of $0.9 million in sales and other indirect taxes. General and administrative expenses as a percent of revenue decreased from 39% in the year ended January 31, 2017 to 27% in the year ended January 31, 2018 . Other Income (Expense), Net Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 513 $ (396 ) $ (909 ) (177 )% Other income (expense), net increased $0.9 million . This decrease is primarily due to an increase in interest expense of $1.1 million due to the credit facility entered into in December 2017 and as amended in April 2018. The increase in interest expense was slightly offset by an increase in other income due to foreign currency transaction gains. Provision for Income Taxes Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 773 $ 385 $ (388 ) (50 )% Provision for income taxes decreased $0.4 million due to effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Quarterly Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly consolidated statements of operations data for each of the eight quarters in the period ended January 31, 2019 , as well as the percentage of revenue that each line item represents for each quarter. The information for each of these quarters has been prepared on the same basis as the audited annual consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and, in the opinion of management, includes all adjustments, which consist only of normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair presentation of the results of operations for these periods in accordance with GAAP. This data should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of our operating results for a full year or any future period. 64 Three Months Ended April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 19,103 $ 21,052 $ 22,656 $ 24,652 $ 26,663 $ 28,166 $ 30,398 $ 31,930 Professional services and other 5,143 4,851 5,646 5,421 5,282 6,101 6,446 7,478 Total revenue 24,246 25,903 28,302 30,073 31,945 34,267 36,844 39,408 Cost of revenue: Subscription (1) 6,936 7,570 9,102 8,819 8,056 8,265 8,193 8,267 Professional services and other (1) 2,802 3,083 3,292 3,315 3,510 4,253 4,734 4,276 Total cost of revenue 9,738 10,653 12,394 12,134 11,566 12,518 12,927 12,543 Gross profit 14,508 15,250 15,908 17,939 20,379 21,749 23,917 26,865 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing (1) 35,517 31,413 33,552 31,320 39,656 34,002 28,034 29,389 Research and development (1) 19,703 20,191 18,787 19,580 19,064 20,919 18,803 16,954 General and administrative (1)(2) 7,245 7,288 7,280 7,510 4,644 10,207 7,055 8,270 Total operating expenses 62,465 58,892 59,619 58,410 63,364 65,128 53,892 54,613 Loss from operations (47,957 ) (43,642 ) (43,711 ) (40,471 ) (42,985 ) (43,379 ) (29,975 ) (27,748 ) Other income (expense), net (1) 82 243 (74 ) (647 ) (1,919 ) (2,898 ) (2,371 ) (1,786 ) Loss before income taxes (47,875 ) (43,399 ) (43,785 ) (41,118 ) (44,904 ) (46,277 ) (32,346 ) (29,534 ) Provision for income taxes 103 94 99 89 603 107 199 339 Net loss $ (47,978 ) $ (43,493 ) $ (43,884 ) $ (41,207 ) $ (45,507 ) $ (46,384 ) $ (32,545 ) $ (29,873 ) ________________ (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows (in thousands): Three Months Ended April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 11 $ 12 $ 13 $ 12 $ 15 $ 55 $ 74 $ 75 Professional services and other 10 11 10 9 8 70 34 42 Sales and marketing 590 462 453 340 305 3,744 1,441 1,897 Research and development 522 595 628 566 483 2,993 1,630 1,413 General and administrative 1,271 1,276 1,273 1,270 1,265 3,330 1,461 1,436 Other expense (income), net 8 9 8 11 17 (26 ) 14 25 Total $ 2,412 $ 2,365 $ 2,385 $ 2,208 $ 2,093 $ 10,166 $ 4,654 $ 4,888 (2) Includes amortization of certain intangible assets as follows (in thousands) : Three Months Ended April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 General and administrative $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 $ 20 (3) Includes reversals of contingent tax-related accruals as follows (in thousands) : Three Months Ended April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 General and administrative $ $ $ $ $ (3,513 ) $ $ $ 65 Three Months Ended April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 (as a percentage of total revenue) Revenue: Subscription 79 % 81 % 80 % 82 % 83 % 82 % 83 % 81 % Professional services and other 21 19 20 18 17 18 17 19 Total revenue 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Cost of revenue: Subscription 29 29 32 29 25 24 22 21 Professional services and other 12 12 12 11 11 13 13 11 Total cost of revenue 41 41 44 40 36 37 35 32 Gross margin 59 59 56 60 64 63 65 68 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 146 121 119 104 124 99 76 75 Research and development 81 78 66 65 60 61 51 43 General and administrative 30 28 26 25 15 30 19 20 Total operating expenses 257 227 211 194 199 190 146 138 Loss from operations (198 ) (168 ) (155 ) (134 ) (135 ) (127 ) (81 ) (70 ) Other income (expense), net 1 (2 ) (6 ) (8 ) (6 ) (5 ) Loss before income taxes (198 ) (167 ) (155 ) (136 ) (141 ) (135 ) (87 ) (75 ) Provision for income taxes 2 1 1 Net loss (198 )% (167 )% (155 )% (136 )% (143 )% (135 )% (88 )% (76 )% Quarterly Trends in Revenue Our quarterly revenue increased sequentially for all periods presented primarily due to increases in the number of new customers, average contract value and expanded relationships with existing customers. In some cases, revenue for professional services decreased period over period due to timing of work completed on large projects. Our professional services revenue has experienced significant volatility in the past and we expect this volatility to continue. Quarterly Costs and Expenses Trends Costs of subscription services increased across the first three quarters presented primarily due to the continued expansion of our cloud infrastructure and increased employee headcount. For the three months ended January 31, 2018, April 30, 2018 and October 31, 2018, costs of subscription services decreased compared to the preceding three month period due to optimization of our third-party hosting services. Costs of professional services fluctuated across the quarters presented, primarily due to timing of work completed on large projects. For the three months ended January 31, 2019, costs of professional services decreased compared to the preceding three month period, as we aligned the use of our implementation partner resources with the lower volume of projects delivered during that period. For all three categories of operating expenses (sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative), expenses for the three months ended July 31, 2018 were higher than usual due to stock-based compensation related to the vesting of certain RSUs with a performance condition, which was deemed probable of being satisfied upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. Sales and marketing costs fluctuated across the quarters presented, primarily due to the timing of marketing events. These costs were higher than usual during the three months ended April 30, 2017 and 2018 due to increased costs associated with our annual Domopalooza user conference. Sales and marketing costs were also higher than usual during the three months ended October 31, 2017 due to increased tradeshow activity relative to other periods. For the three months ended October 31, 2018 and January 31, 2019, sales and marketing costs were lower relative to the other quarters presented due to lower employee-related costs and reduction of advertising costs. Research and development costs remained relatively flat across the quarters presented, with the exception of the three months ended October 31, 2018 and January 31, 2019, where costs decreased due to lower employee-related costs. 66 General and administrative costs also remained relatively flat across the quarters presented. These costs were lower than usual during the three months ended April 30, 2018 due to the reversal of a contingent tax-related accrual and were higher during the three months ended January 31, 2019 due to costs associated with being a public company. Other income (expense), net has increased in recent quarters due to interest expense associated with the credit facility. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to various factors affecting our performance. In addition, we recognize revenue from subscriptions ratably over the term of the contract. Therefore, changes in our contracting activity in the near term may not impact changes to our reported revenue until future periods. Quarterly Billings The following table sets forth billings for each of the eight quarters in the period ended January 31, 2019 . Three Months Ended April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, April 30, July 31, October 31, January 31, 2017 2017 2017 2018 2018 2018 2018 2019 Billings (in thousands) $ 27,663 $ 26,464 $ 30,015 $ 45,402 $ 33,714 $ 35,664 $ 38,791 $ 57,241 Quarterly Billings Trends The improvement in billings is due to the acquisition of additional customers and sales of larger subscription contracts to existing customers, which are attributable to our continued focus on selling to larger enterprise customers. The increase in billings during the three months ended January 31, 2018 and 2019 is primarily from seasonality due to the buying patterns of our larger customers and the higher concentration of customers renewing their subscriptions in our fiscal fourth quarter. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of January 31, 2019 , we had $177.0 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our cash equivalents are comprised primarily of money market funds. On July 3, 2018, we closed our initial public offering of 10,580,000 shares of Class B common stock at an initial price to the public of $21.00 per share, resulting in aggregate net proceeds to us of $202.5 million , after deducting underwriting discounts and offering expenses payable by us. In December 2017, we entered into an $80 million credit facility and drew $50 million. In April 2018, we amended the credit facility pursuant to which we were able to incur an additional $20 million in term loan borrowings, for a total availability of $100 million under the amended facility. We drew the remaining $50 million during April 2018. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily through the periodic sale of convertible preferred stock, cash collected from customers for our subscriptions and services, our IPO and to a lesser extent, debt financing. Our principal uses of cash have consisted of employee-related costs, marketing programs and events, and payments related to hosting our cloud-based platform. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. We may need to raise additional funds to invest in growth opportunities, product development, sales and marketing, and other purposes. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate, the level of investments we make in product development and sales and marketing activities, the continuing market acceptance of our platform, customer retention rates and other investments to support the growth of our business, and may increase materially from those currently planned. We may seek to raise additional funds through equity or debt financings. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness likely would have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations in the same or similar manner as our credit facility. Any additional equity financing likely would be dilutive to existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Although we are not currently a party to any agreement or letter of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. We have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to enter into any such acquisitions. 67 Credit Facility The credit facility, as amended, permits us to incur up to $100 million in term loan borrowings, all of which had been drawn as of January 31, 2019 . Each term loan requires that we pay only interest until the maturity date. A portion of the interest that accrues on the outstanding principal of each term loan is payable in cash on a monthly basis, which portion accrues at a floating rate equal to the greater of (1) 7% and (2) three-month LIBOR plus 5.5% per year. As of January 31, 2019 , the interest rate was approximately 8.3% . In addition, a portion of the interest that accrues on the outstanding principal of each term loan is capitalized and added to the principal amount of the outstanding term loan on a monthly basis, which portion accrues at a fixed rate equal to 2.5% per year. In December 2017, we incurred $50 million in term loan borrowings under the credit facility. We incurred the remaining $50 million in term loan borrowing under the amended credit facility in April 2018. The amendment increased the closing fee from $3.6 million to $4.5 million. In addition, under the amended credit facility, we were required to pay a $2 million fee upon the earlier of (1) the closing of a transaction in which we are acquired by a third party and (2) December 4, 2027. The obligation to pay this $2 million fee terminated upon the closing of our initial public offering. In January 2019, we entered into an amendment to this credit facility which extended the maturity date for both outstanding loans to October 1, 2022. The amendment also revised the maximum debt ratio financial covenant and increased the amount of the closing fee from $4.5 million to $7.0 million. The credit facility contains customary conditions to borrowing, events of default and covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to dispose of assets, make material changes to the nature, control or location of our business, merge with or acquire other entities, incur indebtedness or encumbrances, make distributions to holders of our capital stock, make investments or enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, we are required to comply with a financial covenant based on the ratio of our outstanding indebtedness to our annualized recurring revenue. As amended, the minimum ratio is 0.85 on January 31, 2019 and April 30, 2019; 0.80 on July 31, 2019 and October 31, 2019; 0.75 on January 31, 2020 and April 30, 2020; 0.70 on July 31, 2020 and October 31, 2020; 0.65 on January 31, 2021 and April 30, 2021; and 0.60 on July 31, 2021 through the maturity date. The credit facility defines our annualized recurring revenue as four times our aggregate revenue for the immediately preceding quarter (net of recurring discounts and discounts for periods greater than one year) less the annual contract value of any customer contracts pursuant to which we were advised during such quarter would not be renewed at the end of the current term plus annual contract value of existing customer contract increases during such quarter. This covenant is measured quarterly on a three-month trailing basis. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, such as non-compliance with covenants, any outstanding principal, interest and fees become due immediately. We were in compliance with the covenant terms of the credit facility at January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2019 . The credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. Backlog Our new business subscriptions typically have a term of one to three years, and we generally invoice our customers in annual installments at the beginning of each year in the subscription period. Due to this billing pattern, at any point in the contract term, there can be amounts that we have not yet been contractually able to invoice. Until such time as these amounts are invoiced, they are not recorded in revenue, deferred revenue, or elsewhere in our consolidated financial statements, and are considered by us to be backlog. The amount of backlog, which does not include deferred revenue, was $70.3 million and $102.3 million as of January 31, 2018 and 2019 , respectively. Of the January 31, 2019 amount, $44.3 million is not reasonably expected to be billed during the year ending January 31, 2020 . We expect that the amount of backlog relative to the total value of our contracts will change from year to year for several reasons, including the amount billed early in the contract term, the specific timing and duration of large customer subscription agreements, varying invoicing cycles of subscription agreements, the specific timing of customer renewal, changes in customer financial circumstances, contract amendments and foreign currency fluctuations. Backlog may also vary based on changes in the average non-cancellable term of subscription agreements. The change in backlog that results from changes in the average non-cancellable term of subscription agreements may not be an indicator of the likelihood of renewal or expected future revenue. Accordingly, we believe that fluctuations in backlog are not necessarily a reliable indicator of future revenue, and we do not utilize backlog as a key management metric internally. 68 Historical Cash Flow Trends Year Ended January 31, 2017 2018 2019 (in thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (144,144 ) $ (148,657 ) $ (131,367 ) Net cash used in investing activities (12,144 ) (7,596 ) (7,976 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (3,466 ) 149,100 254,335 Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities is significantly influenced by the amount of cash we invest in our personnel, timing and amounts we use to fund marketing programs and events to expand our customer base, and the costs to provide our cloud-based platform and related outsourced professional services to our customers. These outflows are partially offset by the amount and timing of payments received from our customers. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended January 31, 2017 , consisted of cash outflows of $237.9 million exceeding the $93.8 million of cash collected from customers. Significant components of cash outflows included $134.7 million for personnel costs and $56.9 million for marketing programs and events, third-party costs to provide our platform and outsourced professional services. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended January 31, 2018 consisted of cash outflows of $274.0 million exceeding the $125.3 million of cash collected from customers. Significant components of cash outflows included $146.4 million for personnel costs and $74.5 million for marketing programs and events, third-party costs to provide our platform and outsourced professional services. Net cash used in operating activities during the year ended January 31, 2019 consisted of cash outflows of $290.6 million exceeding the $159.2 million of cash collected from customers. Significant components of cash outflows included $150.6 million for personnel costs and $74.1 million for marketing programs and events, third-party costs to provide our platform and outsourced professional services. Investing Activities Our investing activities have consisted primarily of property and equipment purchases. Significant components of purchased property and equipment include computer equipment and software for our data center. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended January 31, 2017 consisted primarily of $6.7 million of purchased property and equipment and $4.9 million of capitalized development costs related to internal-use software. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended January 31, 2018 consisted primarily of $5.1 million of purchased property and equipment and $2.2 million of capitalized development costs related to internal-use software. Net cash used in investing activities during the year ended January 31, 2019 consisted primarily of $6.3 million of capitalized development costs related to internal-use software and $1.6 million of purchased property and equipment. Financing Activities Our financing activities have consisted primarily of proceeds from our IPO, issuances of convertible preferred stock, proceeds from our credit facility and to a lesser extent, proceeds received from stock option exercises. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended January 31, 2017 consisted primarily of $4.1 million of issuance costs related to the issuance of convertible preferred stock in the prior year offset in part by $0.7 million from proceeds received from stock option exercises. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended January 31, 2018 consisted primarily of $99.1 million of net proceeds from the issuance of convertible preferred stock, $48.9 million of proceeds from our credit facility, net of issuance costs and $1.3 million from proceeds received from stock option exercises. 69 Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended January 31, 2019 consisted primarily of $202.6 million of IPO proceeds (net of underwriters' discounts and commissions and offering costs paid during the period), $49.6 million of proceeds from our credit facility, net of issuance costs, and $2.3 million from proceeds received from stock option exercises. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Contractual obligations are cash that we are obligated to pay as part of certain contracts that we have entered into during the normal course of business. At January 31, 2019 , the future non-cancelable minimum payments under these commitments were as follows: Payments Due by Period Less Than 1 Year 1 to 3 Years 3 to 5 Years More Than 5 Years Total (in thousands) Long-term debt (1) $ 7,952 $ 18,007 $ 126,426 $ $ 152,385 Operating lease obligations (2) 7,162 4,829 2,257 4,799 19,047 Other obligations (3) 20,144 22,867 486 43,497 Total contractual obligations $ 35,258 $ 45,703 $ 129,169 $ 4,799 $ 214,929 ________________ (1) Includes interest payments of $45.4 million and a closing fee due at maturity of $7.0 million . (2) We lease our facilities under long-term operating leases, which expire at various dates through 2027. (3) Other obligations are associated with non-cancelable contracts primarily for cloud infrastructure services and software subscriptions, including Amazon Web Services. Obligations under contracts that we can cancel without a significant penalty have been excluded. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of January 31, 2019 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs and expenses, and related disclosures. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations would be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. We refer to accounting estimates of this type as critical accounting policies and estimates, which we discuss below. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue primarily from subscriptions to our cloud-based platform and professional services. Revenue is recognized when control of these services is transferred to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those services, net of sales taxes. For sales through channel partners, we consider the channel partner to be the end customer for the purposes of revenue recognition as our contractual relationships with channel partners do not depend on the sale of our services to their customers and payment from the channel partner is not contingent on receiving payment from their customers. Our contractual relationships with channel partners do not allow returns, rebates, or price concessions. Revenue recognition is determined through the following steps: Identification of the contract, or contracts, with a customer Identification of the performance obligations in the contract Determination of the transaction price Allocation of the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract Recognition of revenue when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied 70 Subscription Revenue Subscription revenue primarily consists of fees paid by customers to access our cloud-based platform, including support services. Our subscription agreements generally have annual contractual terms and a smaller percentage have multi-year contractual terms. Revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual term beginning on the date that the platform is made available to a customer. Access to the platform represents a series of distinct services as we continually provide access to and fulfill our obligation to the end customer over the subscription term. The series of distinct services represents a single performance obligation that is satisfied over time. We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the platform throughout the contract period. Our contracts are generally non-cancelable. Professional Services and Other Revenue Professional services revenue consists of implementation services sold with new subscriptions as well as professional services sold separately. Other revenue includes training and education. Professional services arrangements are billed in advance, and revenue from these arrangements is recognized as the services are provided, generally based on hours incurred. Training and education revenue is also recognized as the services are provided. Contracts with Multiple Performance Obligations Most of our contracts with new customers contain multiple performance obligations, generally consisting of subscriptions and professional services. For these contracts, individual performance obligations are accounted for separately if they are distinct. The transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price basis. Standalone selling prices are determined based on historical standalone selling prices, taking into consideration overall pricing objectives, market conditions and other factors, including contract value, customer demographics and the number and types of users within the contract. As of January 31, 2019 , approximately $183.5 million of revenue was expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for subscription contracts. We expect to recognize approximately $109.1 million of this amount during the year ending January 31, 2020 , with an additional $42.5 million being recognized during the year ending January 31, 2021 , and the balance recognized thereafter. As of January 31, 2019 , approximately $16.1 million of revenue was expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations for professional services and other contracts, $14.3 million of which is expected to be recognized during the year ending January 31, 2020 , and the balance recognized thereafter. Contract Acquisition Costs Contract acquisition costs, net are stated at cost net of accumulated amortization and primarily consist of deferred sales commissions, which are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Contract acquisition costs for initial contracts are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit, which we have determined to be approximately four years. The period of benefit is determined by taking into consideration contractual terms, expected customer life, changes in our technology and other factors. Contract acquisition costs for renewal contracts are not commensurate with contract acquisition costs for initial contracts and are recorded as expense when incurred if the period of benefit is one year or less. If the period of benefit is greater than one year, costs are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit. Contract acquisition costs related to professional services and other performance obligations with a period of benefit of one year or less are recorded as expense when incurred. Amortization of contract acquisition costs is included in sales and marketing expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Capitalized Internal-Use Software Costs We capitalize certain costs related to development of our platform incurred during the application development stage. Costs related to preliminary project activities and post-implementation activities are expensed as incurred. Maintenance and training costs are also expensed as incurred. Capitalized costs are included in property and equipment. Capitalized internal-use software is amortized as subscription cost of revenue on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, which is generally three years. Management evaluates the useful lives of these assets on an annual basis and tests for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances occur that could impact the recoverability of these assets. 71 Valuation of Goodwill Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually on November 1, and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Triggering events that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse change in customer demand or business climate or a significant decrease in expected cash flows. Stock-Based Compensation We have granted stock-based awards, consisting of stock options and restricted stock units, to our employees, certain consultants and certain members of our board of directors. We record stock-based compensation based on the grant date fair value of the awards, which include stock options and restricted stock units, and recognize the fair value of those awards as expense using the straight-line method over the requisite service period of the award. For restricted stock units that contain performance conditions, we recognize expense using the accelerated attribution method if it is probable the performance conditions will be met . We estimate the grant date fair value of stock options using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. Stock-based compensation expense related to purchase rights issued under the 2018 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, or ESPP, is based on the Black-Scholes option-pricing model fair value of the estimated number of awards as of the beginning of the offering period. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized using the straight-line method over the offering period. The determination of the grant date fair value of stock-based awards is affected by the estimated fair value of our common stock as well as other assumptions and judgments, which are estimated as follows: Fair Value Per Share of Common Stock . Because there was no public market for our common stock prior to the IPO, the board of directors determined the common stock fair value at the grant date by considering numerous objective and subjective factors, including contemporaneous valuations of our common stock, actual operating and financial performance, market conditions, and performance of comparable publicly traded companies, business developments, the likelihood of achieving a liquidity event, and transactions involving preferred and common stock, among other factors. Subsequent to the IPO, we determine the fair value of common stock as of each grant date using the market closing price of our Class B common stock on the date of grant. Expected Term . The expected term is determined using the simplified method, which is calculated as the midpoint of the options contractual term and vesting period. We use this method due to limited stock option exercise history. For the ESPP, the expected term is the beginning of the offering period to the end of each purchase period . Expected Volatility . Since a public market for our common stock did not exist prior to the IPO and, therefore, we do not have a sufficient trading history of our common stock, expected volatility is estimated based on the volatility of similar publicly held companies over a period equivalent to the expected term of the awards. Risk-free Interest Rate . The risk-free interest rate is determined using U.S. Treasury rates with a similar term as the expected term of the option. Expected Dividend Yield . We have never declared or paid any cash dividends and do not presently plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, we use an expected dividend yield of zero. JOBS Act Accounting Election We are an emerging growth company, as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act of 2012, or the JOBS Act. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards issued subsequent to the enactment of the JOBS Act until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have elected to use this extended transition period for complying with new or revised accounting standards that have different effective dates for public and private companies until the earlier of the date we (1) are no longer an emerging growth company or (2) affirmatively and irrevocably opt out of the extended transition period provided in the JOBS Act. As a result, our financial statements may not be comparable to companies that comply with new or revised accounting pronouncements as of public company effective dates. Recent Accounting Pronouncements ASU No. 2014-09 In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board or FASB issued Accounting Standards Update or ASU No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606). Topic 606 establishes a principle for recognizing revenue upon the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the considerations to which the entity expects to be entitled 72 to in exchange for those goods or services. ASU No. 2014-09 also added Subtopic 340-40, Other Assets and Deferred Costs - Contracts with Customers , which requires the deferral of incremental costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Topic 606 and Subtopic 340-40 are collectively referred to herein as the "new standard." We elected to early adopt the requirements of the new standard as of February 1, 2017 with an initial application date of February 1, 2016, utilizing the full retrospective method of transition. The primary impact of adopting the new standard is the deferral of incremental costs of obtaining subscription contracts. Prior to adopting the new standard, deferral of commissions was not required and our policy was to expense commission costs as incurred. Under the new standard, all incremental costs to obtain the contract are deferred if the period of benefit is greater than one year. These costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit, the determination of which is discussed in the contract acquisition costs policy above. ASU No. 2016-09 In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09, CompensationStock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting, which simplifies and improves several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions such as the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities on the balance sheet, and classification of employee taxes paid on statement of cash flows when an employer withholds shares for tax-withholding purposes. The standard also provides an accounting policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur. We elected to early adopt ASU 2016-09 as of February 1, 2016, and as part of the adoption elected to account for forfeitures as they occur. Therefore, stock-based compensation expense for the years ended January 31, 2017, 2018 and 2019 has been calculated based on actual forfeitures in the consolidated statements of operations, rather than the previous approach, which was net of estimated forfeitures. The net cumulative effect of this change of $0.6 million was recorded as a reduction to paid-in capital and accumulated deficit as of February 1, 2016. The other aspects of ASU 2016-09 did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. ASU No. 2016-02 In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases (Topic 842), which requires lessees to record most leases on the balance sheet and recognize the expenses on the income statement in a manner similar to current practice. ASU 2016-02 states that a lessee would recognize a lease liability for the obligation to make lease payments and a right-to-use asset for the right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. For public entities, the new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within that reporting period. For all other entities, this standard is effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2019 and interim periods within annual periods beginning after December 15, 2020. Early adoption is permitted. We expect to adopt this standard as of February 1, 2020, assuming we remain an emerging growth company. We are currently evaluating the impact to our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, but expect assets and liabilities related to leases to increase as a result of adopting this standard. 73