Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations This discussion contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Statements containing words such as may, believe, could, "will, seek, depends, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, project, projections, business outlook, estimate, or similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements. You should read these statements carefully because they discuss future expectations, contain projections of future results of operations or financial condition or state other forward-looking information. These statements relate to our future plans, objectives, expectations, intentions and financial performance and the assumptions that underlie these statements. They include, but are not limited to, statements about: our ability to attract new customers and retain and expand our relationships with existing customers; our future financial performance, including our expectations regarding our revenue, cost of revenue, gross profit, operating expenses, key metrics, ability to generate cash flow and ability to achieve and maintain future profitability; the potential impact on our business transitioning to a consumption-based pricing model; the anticipated trends, market opportunity, growth rates and challenges in our business and in the business intelligence software market; our plans with respect to amending our loan agreement to effect transition from LIBOR to new benchmark rate; the efficacy of our sales and marketing efforts; our ability to compete successfully in competitive markets; our ability to respond to and capitalize on rapid technological changes; our expectations and management of future growth; our ability to enter new markets and manage our expansion efforts, particularly internationally; our ability to develop new product features; our ability to attract and retain key employees and qualified technical and sales personnel; our ability to effectively and efficiently protect our brand; our ability to timely scale and adapt our infrastructure; the effect of general economic and market conditions on our business; our ability to protect our customers' data and proprietary information; our ability to maintain, protect, and enhance our intellectual property and not infringe upon others intellectual property; and our ability to comply with all governmental laws, regulations and other legal obligations. Our actual results may differ materially from those contained in or implied by any forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, including those factors discussed in Part II, Item 1A (Risk Factors). In light of the significant uncertainties and risks inherent in these forward-looking statements, you should not regard these statements as a representation or warranty by us or anyone else that we will achieve our objectives or plans in any specified time frame, or at all, or as predictions of future events. Moreover, neither we nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of the forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 24 Overview We founded Domo in 2010 with the vision of digitally connecting everyone within the enterprise with real-time, rich, relevant data and then enabling all employees to collaborate and act on that data. We realized that many organizations were unable to access the massive amounts of data that they were collecting in siloed cloud applications and on-premise databases. Furthermore, even for organizations that were capable of accessing their data, the process for doing so was time-consuming, costly, and often resulted in the data being out-of-date by the time it reached decision makers. The delivery format, including alert functionality, and devices were not adequate for the connected and real-time mobile workforce. Based on these observations, it was apparent that all organizations, regardless of size or industry, were failing to unlock the power of all of their people, data, and systems. To address these challenges, we provide a modern cloud-based data experience platform that digitally connects everyone at an organization from the CEO to frontline employees with all the people, data, and systems in an organization, giving them access to real-time data and insights and allowing them to put data to work for everyone so they can multiply their impact on the business. We typically offer our platform to our customers as a subscription-based service. Subscription fees are based upon the chosen Domo package which includes tier-based platform capabilities, or usage. Business leaders, department heads and managers are the typical initial subscribers to our platform, deploying Domo to solve a business problem or to enable departmental access. Over time, as customers recognize the value of our platform, we engage with CIOs and other executives to facilitate broad enterprise adoption. We recently began offering our platform as a consumption-based service. Customers have an annual purchase commitment which is paid upfront, and is based on an estimated volume of usage. We believe this model could increase customer adoption and allow us to better land, expand, and retain customers over the long term, and thereby have a positive impact on sales and marketing productivity. We believe this has potential to remove many of the barriers of adoption and better align our pricing to the value delivered to our customers. We expect an increase in the number of consumption-based agreements in future periods. However, we have limited experience with consumption-based agreements and changes in our pricing and subscription models subject us to a number of uncertainties. As of April 30, 2023, 65% of our customers were under multi-year contracts on a dollar-weighted basis, compared to 65% of customers as of January 31, 2023. The high percentage revenue from multi-year contracts, among both new and existing customers, has enhanced the predictability of our subscription revenue. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance for subscriptions to our platform. Remaining performance obligations (RPO) represents the remaining amount of revenue we expect to recognize from existing non-cancelable contracts, whether billed or unbilled. As of April 30, 2022 and 2023, total RPO was $351.5 million and $356.7 million, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 1%. The amount of RPO expected to be recognized as revenue in the next twelve months was $225.0 million and $237.5 million as of April 30, 2022 and 2023, respectively, representing year-over-year growth of 6%. We had total revenue of $74.5 million and $79.5 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023, respectively, reflecting a year-over-year increase of 7%. For the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue, nor did any single organization when accounting for multiple subsidiaries or divisions which may have been invoiced separately. Revenue from customers with billing addresses in the United States comprised 79% and 79% or our total revenue for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023, respectively. We expect our revenue growth rate to decline in the near term, due in part to the effects of the macroeconomic environment which has elongated the software sales cycle and increased deal scrutiny. In connection with the slowing growth rate, we've taken steps to better align our sales team and focus on controlling costs, which we expect will result in improved margins, sustained positive cash flow and efficient growth in the long term. We have incurred significant net losses since our inception, including net losses of $32.9 million and $24.4 million for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023, respectively, and had an accumulated deficit of $1,354.4 million at April 30, 2023. We expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Impact of Macroeconomic Conditions Prevailing macroeconomic conditions have impacted, and may continue to impact, our business and those of our customers in a manner that we may not be able to quantify or isolate from other drivers of our performance. Ongoing concerns about the health of the U.S. and global economies may cause certain existing and potential customers to reduce or 25 delay technology spending or, seek payment or other concessions from us, which may materially and negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and prospects. Furthermore, the United States has been experiencing historically elevated rates of inflation. This inflationary environment may cause us to incur higher operating costs that we may not be able to recoup through the pricing of our platform, and may further contribute to reduced or delayed technology spend by our customers in an effort to mitigate their own rising costs. Factors Affecting Performance Continue to Attract New Customers We believe that our ability to expand our customer base is an important indicator of market penetration, the growth of our business, and future business opportunities. We define a customer at the end of any particular quarter as an entity that generated revenue greater than $2,500 during that quarter. In situations where an organization has multiple subsidiaries or divisions, each entity that is invoiced at a separate billing address is treated as a separate customer. In cases where customers purchase through a reseller, each end customer is counted separately. We define enterprise customers as companies with over $1 billion in revenue, and companies with less than $1 billion in revenue are corporate customers. In order to maintain comparability, companies who become customers with revenue below $1 billion and subsequently exceed that threshold are considered enterprise customers for all periods presented. As of April 30, 2023, we had over 2,500 customers. For the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023, our enterprise customers accounted for 49% and 47% of our revenue, respectively. In order to accelerate customer growth, we intend to further develop our partner ecosystem by establishing agreements with more software resellers, systems integrators and other partners to provide broader customer and geographic coverage. We believe we are underpenetrated in the overall market and have significant opportunity to expand our customer base over time. Customer Upsell and Retention We employ a land, expand, and retain sales model, and our performance depends on our ability to retain customers and expand the use of our platform at existing customers over time. It currently takes multiple years for our customers to fully embrace the power of our platform. We believe that as customers deploy greater volumes and sources of data for multiple use cases, the unique features of our platform can address the needs of everyone within their organization. We are still in the early stages of expanding within many of our customers. We have invested in platform capabilities and online support resources that allow our customers to expand the use of our platform in a self-guided manner. Our professional services, customer support and customer success functions also support our sales force by helping customers to successfully deploy our platform and implement additional use cases. In addition, we believe our partner ecosystem will become increasingly important over time. We work closely with our customers to drive increased engagement with our platform by identifying new use cases through our customer success teams, as well as in-platform, self-guided experiences. We actively engage with our customers to assess whether they are satisfied and fully realizing the benefits of our platform. While these efforts often require a substantial commitment and upfront costs, we believe our investment in product, customer support, customer success and professional services will create opportunities to expand our customer relationships over time. Our ability to drive growth and generate incremental revenue depends heavily on our ability to retain our customers and increase their usage of our platform. With that objective in mind, we allocate our customer success and customer support resources to align with maximizing the retention and expansion of our subscription revenue. An important metric that we use to evaluate our performance in retaining customers is gross retention rate. We calculate our gross retention rate by taking the dollar amount of annual contract value (ACV) that renews in a given period divided by the ACV that was up for renewal in that same period. The ACV of multi-year contracts is also considered in the calculation based on the period in which the annual anniversary of the contract falls. Our gross retention rate was 93% and 88% for the 12 months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023, respectively. As we continue to enhance our product and develop methods to encourage wider and more strategic adoptions, we expect that customer retention will increase over the long term. Our ability to successfully upsell and the impact of cancellations may vary from period to period. The extent of this variability depends on a number of factors including the size and timing of upsells and cancellations relative to the initial subscriptions. 26 Sales and Marketing Efficiency We are focused on increasing the efficiency of our sales force and marketing activities by enhancing account targeting, messaging, field sales operations and sales training in order to accelerate the adoption of our platform. Our sales strategy depends on our ability to continue to attract and retain top talent, to increase our pipeline of business, and to enhance sales productivity. We focus on productivity per quota-carrying sales representative and the time it takes our sales representatives to reach full productivity. We manage our pipeline by sales representative to ensure sufficient coverage of our sales targets. Our ability to manage our sales productivity and pipeline are important factors to the success of our business. We have taken steps to better align our sales and marketing spending and headcount to efficiently grow and attract new customers. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenue was 61% for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to 54% for the three months ended April 30, 2023. Leverage Research and Development Investments for Future Growth We plan to continue to make investments in areas of our business to continue to expand our platform functionality. This may include investing in machine learning algorithms, predictive analytics, and other artificial intelligence technologies to create alerts, detect anomalies, optimize queries, and suggest areas of interest to help people focus on what matters most. These investments may also include extending the functionality and effectiveness of our platform through improvements to the Domo Appstore and developer toolkits, which enable customers and partners to quickly build and deploy custom applications. The amount of new investments required to achieve our plans is expected to decrease as a percentage of revenue compared to historical years. Research and development expense as a percentage of total revenue was 31% for the three months ended April 30, 2022 compared to 29% for the three months ended April 30, 2023. Key Business Metric Billings Billings represent our total revenue plus the change in deferred revenue in a period. Billings reflect sales to new customers plus subscription renewals and upsells to existing customers, and represent amounts invoiced for subscription, support and professional services. We typically invoice our customers annually in advance for subscriptions to our platform. Because we generate most of our revenue from customers who are invoiced on an annual basis and have a wide range of annual contract values, we may experience variability due to typical enterprise buying patterns and timing of large initial contracts, renewals and upsells. The following table sets forth our billings for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023: Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 Billings (in thousands) $ 72,926 $ 70,299 Components of Results of Operations Revenue We derive our revenue primarily from subscription revenue, which consists of subscription-based agreements and, to a lesser extent, consumption-based agreements for our cloud-based platform. We also sell professional services. Revenue from subscription-based agreements is a function of customers, platform tier, number of users, price per user, and transaction and data volumes. Revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual term beginning on the date that the platform is made available to a customer. We recognize revenue ratably because the customer receives and consumes the benefits of the platform throughout the contract period. Consumption-based agreements include fees for a committed annual spend based upon an estimated volume of usage. Revenue from consumption-based contracts is also recognized ratably over the related contractual term of the contract. Amounts for the annual commitment will expire if unused at the end of each annual period. 27 Professional services and other revenue primarily consists of implementation services sold with new subscriptions, as well as professional services sold separately, including training and education. Professional services are generally billed in advance and revenue from these arrangements is recognized as the services are performed. Our professional services engagements typically span from a few weeks to several months. Cost of Revenue Cost of subscription revenue consists primarily of third-party hosting services and data center capacity; salaries, benefits, bonuses and stock-based compensation, or employee-related costs, directly associated with cloud infrastructure and customer support personnel; amortization expense associated with capitalized software development costs; depreciation expense associated with computer equipment and software; certain fees paid to various third parties for the use of their technology and services; and allocated overhead. Allocated overhead includes items such as information technology infrastructure, rent, and certain employee benefit costs. Cost of professional services and other revenue consists primarily of employee-related costs directly associated with these services, third-party consultant fees, and allocated overhead. Operating Expenses Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs directly associated with our sales and marketing staff and commissions. Other sales and marketing costs include digital marketing programs and promotional events to promote our brand, including Domopalooza, our annual user conference, as well as tradeshows, advertising and allocated overhead. Contract acquisition costs, including sales commissions, are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit, which we have determined to be approximately four years for initial contracts. Contract acquisition costs related to renewal contracts and professional services are recorded as expense when incurred if the period of benefit is one year or less. If the period of benefit is greater than one year, costs are deferred and then amortized on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit, which we have determined to be two years. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs for the design and development of our platform, contractor costs to supplement staff levels, third-party web services, consulting services, and allocated overhead. Our cycle of frequent updates has facilitated rapid innovation and the introduction of new product features throughout our history. We capitalize certain software development costs that are attributable to developing new features and adding incremental functionality to our platform, and amortize such costs as costs of subscription revenue over the estimated life of the new feature or incremental functionality, which is generally three years. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of employee-related costs for executive, finance, legal, human resources, recruiting and administrative personnel; professional fees for external legal, accounting, recruiting and other consulting services; and allocated overhead costs. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net consists primarily of interest expense related to long-term debt. It also includes the effect of exchange rates on foreign currency transaction gains and losses foreign currency gains and losses upon remeasurement of intercompany balances, interest income, and sublease income. The transactional impacts of foreign currency are recorded as foreign currency losses (gains) in the condensed consolidated statements of operations. Income Taxes Income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to foreign and state jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Because of the uncertainty of the realization of the deferred tax assets, we have a full valuation allowance for domestic net deferred tax assets, including net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits related primarily to research and development. 28 Results of Operations The following tables set forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data and such data as a percentage of total revenue for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 Revenue: (in thousands) Subscription $ 64,575 $ 71,090 Professional services and other 9,889 8,368 Total revenue 74,464 79,458 Cost of revenue: Subscription(1) 10,667 10,612 Professional services and other(1) 6,994 7,957 Total cost of revenue 17,661 18,569 Gross profit 56,803 60,889 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing(1)(3) 45,587 43,162 Research and development(1) 23,191 23,435 General and administrative(1)(2)(3) 16,660 14,001 Total operating expenses 85,438 80,598 Loss from operations (28,635) (19,709) Other expense, net(1) (4,065) (4,495) Loss before income taxes (32,700) (24,204) Provision for income taxes 188 199 Net loss $ (32,888) $ (24,403) ________________ (1)Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 Cost of revenue: (in thousands) Subscription $ 731 $ 618 Professional services and other 468 479 Sales and marketing(a) 8,075 6,730 Research and development(a) 7,004 4,975 General and administrative(a)(b) 8,805 3,508 Other expense, net 181 162 Total $ 25,264 $ 16,472 (a) Includes $3.6 million of stock-based compensation related to the settlement of certain fiscal 2022 bonuses during the three months ended April 30, 2022. (b) Includes $2.6 million of stock-based compensation related to the modification of certain awards during the three months ended April 30, 2022. (2)Includes amortization of certain intangible assets of $20,000 and $20,000 for the three months ended April 30, 2022 and 2023, respectively. (3)Includes executive officer severance as follows: 29 Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ $ 443 General and administrative 1,328 Total executive officer severance $ $ 1,771 Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 Revenue: Subscription 87 % 89 % Professional services and other 13 11 Total revenue 100 100 Cost of revenue: Subscription 14 13 Professional services and other 10 10 Total cost of revenue 24 23 Gross margin 76 77 Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 61 54 Research and development 31 29 General and administrative 22 19 Total operating expenses 114 102 Loss from operations (38) (25) Other expense, net (5) (6) Loss before income taxes (43) (31) Provision for income taxes Net loss (43) % (31) % Discussion of the Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 and 2023 Revenue Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Revenue: Subscription $ 64,575 $ 71,090 $ 6,515 10 % Professional services and other 9,889 8,368 (1,521) (15) Total revenue $ 74,464 $ 79,458 $ 4,994 7 Percentage of revenue: Subscription 87 % 89 % Professional services and other 13 11 Total 100 % 100 % The increase in subscription revenue was primarily due to a $6.4 million increase from new customers. Our customer count increased 7% from April 30, 2022 to April 30, 2023. For the purpose of this comparison, new customers are defined as those 30 added since the end of the prior year quarter.The decrease in professional services and other revenue was due to a higher amount of revenue recognized from the delivery of custom apps during the three months ended April 30, 2022. Cost of Revenue, Gross Profit and Gross Margin Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Cost of revenue: Subscription $ 10,667 $ 10,612 $ (55) (1) % Professional services and other 6,994 7,957 963 14 Total cost of revenue $ 17,661 $ 18,569 $ 908 5 Gross profit $ 56,803 $ 60,889 $ 4,086 7 Gross margin: Subscription 83 % 85 % Professional services and other 29 5 Total gross margin 76 77 Professional services and other cost of revenue increased primarily due to a $1.2 million increase in outsourced services. Subscription gross margin improved due to cost improvements from continued proactive management and optimization of our third-party hosting services. We expect subscription gross margin to remain relatively flat in future periods. Services gross margin declined primarily due to a higher amount of revenue recognized from the delivery of custom apps during the three months ended April 30, 2022 and a higher volume of hours delivered by partners at a higher average cost per hour during the three months ended April 30, 2023. We expect the gross margin for professional services to fluctuate from period to period due to changes in the proportion of services provided by third-party consultants and their respective rates, seasonality, and timing of projects with higher margins. Operating Expenses Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 45,587 $ 43,162 $ (2,425) (5) % Research and development 23,191 23,435 244 1 General and administrative 16,660 14,001 (2,659) (16) Total operating expenses $ 85,438 $ 80,598 $ (4,840) (6) Percentage of revenue: Sales and marketing 61 % 54 % Research and development 31 29 General and administrative 22 19 Sales and marketing expenses decreased primarily due to a $2.1 million decrease in marketing expense, of which $1.5 represented marketing events. We expect sales and marketing expense to increase in the near term as we continue to invest in the growth of our business. Research and development expenses were relatively flat during the three months ended April 30, 2023. In the near term, we expect research and development expense to increase. General and administrative expenses decreased primarily due to a $2.1 million decrease in employee-related costs. This decrease included a $5.3 million decrease in stock-based compensation, which was partially offset by a $2.1 million increase 31 in bonus expense and a $1.3 million increase in executive severance expense. Professional and legal fees decreased by $0.8 million. In the near term, we expect general and administrative expense to fluctuate from period to period. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Other expense, net $ (4,065) $ (4,495) $ (430) 11 % Other expense, net increased primarily due to a $1.1 million increase in interest expense, partially offset by increases in interest income and sublease income. We expect interest expense to continue to increase modestly due to an increasing principal balance and anticipated higher market interest rates. Income Taxes Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 $ Change % Change (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 188 $ 199 $ 11 6 % In the long term, we expect income tax expense to increase in conjunction with growth in our international subsidiaries and changes in state tax laws. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of April 30, 2023, we had $66.0 million of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash which were held for working capital purposes, of which $3.7 million was restricted cash. Our cash and cash equivalents consist primarily of cash, money market funds, and certificates of deposit. We also have a $100 million credit facility, all of which had been drawn as of April 30, 2023. Since inception, we have financed operations primarily from cash collected from customers for our subscriptions and services, periodic sales of convertible preferred stock, our initial public offering and to a lesser extent, debt financing. Our principal uses of cash have consisted of employee-related costs, marketing programs and events, payments related to hosting our cloud-based platform and purchases of short-term investments. We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements for at least the next 12 months. Over the longer term, we plan to continue investing in, among other things, growth opportunities, product development, and sales and marketing. If available funds are insufficient to fund our future activities or execute on our strategy, we may raise additional capital through equity, equity-linked and debt financing, to the extent such funding sources are available. Alternatively, we may be required to reduce expenses to manage liquidity; however, any such reductions could adversely impact our business and competitive position. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our growth rate; the level of investments we make in product development, sales and marketing activities and other investments to support the growth of our business; the continuing market acceptance of our platform; and customer retention rates, and may increase materially from those currently planned. If we raise additional funds through the incurrence of indebtedness, such indebtedness likely would have rights that are senior to holders of our equity securities and could contain covenants that restrict operations in the same or similar manner as our credit facility. Any additional equity financing likely would be dilutive to existing stockholders. We cannot assure you that any additional financing will be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Moreover, we may not be able to access a portion of our existing cash and cash equivalents due to conditions adversely affecting the financial institutions with which we do business, including limited liquidity, insolvency or receivership. Any such conditions could imperil our ability to access our existing cash and cash equivalents and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. For additional information, see the section of this report captioned Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Financial Position and Capital NeedsAdverse events or perceptions affecting the financial services industry could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and prospects. 32 Although we are not currently a party to any agreement or letter of intent with respect to potential investments in, or acquisitions of, complementary businesses, services or technologies, we may enter into these types of arrangements in the future, which could also require us to seek additional equity financing, incur indebtedness, or use cash resources. We have no present understandings, commitments or agreements to enter into any such acquisitions. We do not have any special purpose entities and we do not engage in off-balance sheet financing arrangements. Credit Facility In August 2020, we entered into an amendment to the credit facility which extended the maturity date for the outstanding loan from October 1, 2022 to April 1, 2025. Per the amendment, we are required to comply with a financial covenant requiring us to maintain a minimum balance of unrestricted cash and cash equivalents equal to $10.0 million until our six-month adjusted cash flow is greater than zero. The amendment also revised the maximum debt ratio financial covenant and included an amendment fee of $5.0 million, which accrues interest at a rate of 9.5% per year. The amendment fee, along with its accrued interest, is to be paid at the earlier of the payment date, maturity date, or the date the loan becomes payable. The credit facility permits us to incur up to $100 million in term loan borrowings, all of which had been drawn as of April 30, 2023. The term loan maturity date is April 1, 2025 with a closing fee of $7.0 million, which is in addition to the $5.0 million amendment fee described above. Each term loan requires that we pay only interest until the maturity date. A portion of the interest that accrues on the outstanding principal of each term loan is payable in cash on a monthly basis, which portion accrues at a floating rate equal to the greater of (1) 7.0% and (2) three-month LIBOR plus 5.5% per year. In the event that LIBOR is unavailable, interest will accrue at a floating rate equal to the greater of (1) 7.0% and (2) the U.S. prime rate plus 2.75% per year. LIBOR is expected to be replaced as an index rate in financial transactions by an alternative benchmark rate in the near future. While the credit facility currently provides for a fallback from LIBOR to the U.S. prime rate, it is possible that we may amend the credit facility to provide for a methodology to effect a transition from LIBOR to a new benchmark rate. It is not possible to predict the effect or timing of any establishment of a successor benchmark rate or its effect on our loan agreement or our business generally.The transition from LIBOR could result in our interest costs increasing and our access to capital could change, which could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. As of April 30, 2023, the interest rate was approximately 10.7%. In addition to the 10.7%, a fixed rate equal to 2.5% per year accrues on the outstanding principal of each term loan and is added to the principal amount of the outstanding term loan on a monthly basis. The credit facility contains customary conditions to borrowing, events of default and covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to dispose of assets, make material changes to the nature, control or location of our business, merge with or acquire other entities, incur indebtedness or encumbrances, make distributions to holders of our capital stock, make investments or enter into transactions with affiliates. The credit facility is secured by substantially all of our assets. In addition, we are required to comply with a financial covenant based on the ratio of our outstanding indebtedness to our annualized recurring revenue. The maximum ratio is 0.500 on January 31, 2023 through the maturity date. The credit facility defines our annualized recurring revenue as four times our aggregate revenue for the immediately preceding quarter (net of recurring discounts and discounts for periods greater than one year) less the annual contract value of any customer contracts pursuant to which we were advised during such quarter would not be renewed at the end of the current term plus the annual contract value of existing customer contract increases during such quarter. This covenant is measured quarterly on a three-month trailing basis. Upon the occurrence of an event of default, such as non-compliance with covenants, any outstanding principal, interest and fees become due immediately. We were in compliance with the covenant terms of the credit facility at January 31, 2023 and April 30, 2023. 33 Historical Cash Flow Trends Three Months Ended April 30, 2022 2023 (in thousands) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 781 $ 828 Net cash used in investing activities (1,937) (3,576) Net cash provided by financing activities 2,287 2,032 Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities consisted primarily of payments received from our customers, cash we invest in our personnel, timing and amounts we use to fund marketing programs and events to expand our customer base, and the costs to provide our cloud-based platform and related outsourced professional services to our customers. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2022 consisted of cash collected from customers of $90.4 million exceeding the cash outflows of $89.6 million. Significant components of cash outflows included $61.2 million for personnel costs and $11.6 million for marketing programs and events, third-party costs to provide our platform and outsourced professional services. Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended April 30, 2023 consisted of cash collected from customers of $93.6 million exceeding the cash outflows of $92.8 million. Significant components of cash outflows included $53.8 million for personnel costs and $18.0 million for marketing programs and events, third-party costs to provide our platform and outsourced professional services. Investing Activities Our investing activities consisted primarily of property and equipment purchases, which included capitalized development costs related to internal-use software. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2022 consisted primarily of $1.5 million of capitalized development costs related to internal-use software and $0.4 million of purchased property and equipment. Net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended April 30, 2023 consisted primarily of $2.1 million of capitalized development costs related to internal-use software and $1.5 million of purchased property and equipment. Financing Activities Our financing activities consisted primarily of proceeds received from stock option exercises and our employee stock purchase plan. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2022 consisted primarily of $1.6 million of proceeds from shares issued in connection with employee stock purchase plan and $0.7 million of proceeds received from stock option exercises. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended April 30, 2023 consisted of $2.0 million of proceeds from shares issued in connection with our employee stock purchase plan. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of long-term debt, obligations under operating leases for office space, and non-cancelable contracts for cloud infrastructure services. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments, as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We prepare our condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain and that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, 34 costs and expenses, and related disclosures. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our financial condition or results of operations would be affected. We base our estimates on past experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, and we evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we consider critical to understanding our historical and future performance, as these policies relate to the more significant areas involving managements judgments and estimates. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as previously disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. See "Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding our significant accounting policies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See "Note 2Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" of our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding recent accounting pronouncements. 35