Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Company Overview Donnelley Financial Solutions, Inc. (DFIN, or the Company) is a leading global risk and compliance solutions company. The Company provides regulatory filing and deal solutions via its software-as-a-service (SaaS), technology-enabled services and print and distribution solutions to public and private companies, mutual funds and other regulated investment firms, to serve their regulatory and compliance needs. For corporate clients within its capital markets offerings, the Company offers technology-enabled filing solutions that allow U.S. public companies to comply with applicable U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations. The Companys services include filing agent services, digital document creation and online content management tools that support their corporate financial transactions and regulatory reporting. The Company provides solutions to facilitate clients communications with their shareholders; and virtual data rooms and other deal management solutions. For the investment markets, including alternative investment and insurance investment companies, the Company provides technology-enabled filing solutions including cloud-based tools for creating and filing high-quality regulatory documents and solutions for investors designed to improve the speed of access to and accuracy of investment information. Throughout a companys life cycle, the Company serves its clients regulatory and compliance needs. The Companys deep industry and regulatory expertise and a commitment to exceptional service guides our clients to navigate a high-stakes and ever-changing regulatory environment. Segments The Company operates in two business segments: United States . The U.S. segment is comprised of three reporting units: capital markets; investment markets; and language solutions, which was divested in 2018.* The Company services capital market and investment market clients in the U.S. by delivering products and technology-enabled services to help create, manage and deliver financial communications to investors and regulators. The Company provides capital market and investment market clients with communication tools, services and software to allow them to comply with their ongoing regulatory filings. In addition, the U.S. segment provides clients with communications services to create, manage and deliver registration statements, prospectuses, proxies and other communications to regulators and investors. The U.S. segment also includes commercial printing capabilities and language solutions.* International . The International segment includes operations in Asia, Europe, Canada and Latin America. The international business is primarily focused on working with international capital markets clients on capital markets offerings and regulatory compliance related activities within the United States. In addition, the International segment provides services to international investment market clients to allow them to comply with applicable SEC regulations, as well as language solutions to international clients.* *The Company sold its Language Solutions business on July 22, 2018. Refer to Note 3, Acquisitions and Dispositions , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Due to the sale of the Language Solutions business, the Company made changes to the reporting units within the U.S. segment. The former Language Solutions and other reporting unit has been renamed Language Solutions. Certain results previously included within the former Language Solutions and other reporting unit are now included within the Investment Markets reporting unit. Prior year amounts have been restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. The Company reports certain unallocated general and administrative activities and associated expenses within Corporate, including, in part, executive, legal, finance, marketing and certain facility costs. In addition, certain costs and earnings of employee benefit plans, such as pension income and share-based compensation, are included in Corporate and are not allocated to the reportable segments. For the Companys financial results and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, see Note 13, Segment Information , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Products and Services The Company separately reports its net sales and related cost of sales for its products and services offerings. The Companys services offerings consist of document composition, compliance related EDGAR filing services, transaction solutions, language solutions, and the Companys SaaS solutions, including Venue Virtual Data Room (Venue), FundSuiteArc, ActiveDisclosure and EDGAR Online, among others. The Companys product offerings primarily consist of conventional and digital printed products and related shipping costs. 30 Executive Overview First Quarter Overview Net sales decreased by $25.6 million, or 10.0%, for the first quarter of 2019 compared to the same period in the prior year, including a $1.1 million, or 0.4%, decrease due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Net sales decreased $18.8 million due to the impact of the sale of the Language Solutions business. In addition, net sales decreased due to lower capital markets transactions, primarily driven by the U.S. government shutdown in January 2019. The decrease in net sales was partially offset by higher volumes in mutual fund print and growth in SaaS solutions, primarily in ActiveDisclosure and FundSuiteArc. On January 1, 2019, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 Leases (Topic 842) (ASU 2016-02) and all related amendments, which require lessees to put most leases on the balance sheet but recognize expense on the income statement in a manner similar to current accounting. The Company recognized the cumulative effect of applying the standard as an opening transition adjustment. The comparative periods have not been restated and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2016-02, the Company recognized a lease liability of $101.6 million and a right-of-use asset of $100.8 million for operating leases at January 1, 2019. Refer to Note 7, Leases , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. OUTLOOK Competition Technological and regulatory changes, including the electronic distribution of documents, continue to impact the market for our products and services. In addition to the Companys ongoing innovation in its SaaS solutions, one of the Companys competitive strengths is that it offers a wide array of communications products, compliance services, a global platform, exceptional sales and service and regulatory domain expertise, which provide differentiated solutions for its clients. The global risk and compliance industry, in general, is highly competitive and barriers to entry have decreased as a result of technology innovation. Despite some consolidation in recent years, the industry remains highly fragmented in the United States and even more so internationally with many in-country alternative providers. The Company expects competition to increase from existing competitors, as well as new and emerging market entrants. In addition, as the Company expands its product and service offerings, it may face competition from new and existing competitors. The Company competes primarily on product quality and functionality, service levels, subject matter regulatory expertise, security, price and reputation. The impact of digital technologies has impacted many of the products and markets in which the Company competes, most acutely in the Companys mutual fund, variable annuity and public company compliance business offerings. While the Company offers a high-touch, service oriented experience, technology changes have provided alternatives to the Companys clients that allow them to manage more of the financial disclosure process themselves. The Company has invested in its own SaaS solutions, ActiveDisclosure, FundSuiteArc and Venue to serve clients and increase retention and has invested to expand capabilities and address new market sectors. The future impact of technology on the business is difficult to predict and could result in additional expenditures to restructure impacted operations or develop new technologies. In addition, the Company has made targeted acquisitions and investments in its existing business to offer clients innovative services and solutions, including acquisitions of eBrevia and EDGAR Online and investments in AuditBoard, Mediant and Peloton that support the Companys position as a technology service leader in this evolving industry. The Companys competitors for SEC filing services for public company compliance clients include full service financial communications providers, technology point solution providers focused on financial communications and general technology providers. The Companys competitors for SEC filing services for investment markets clients include full service traditional providers, small niche technology providers and local and regional print providers that bid against the Company for printing, mailing and fulfillment services. 31 Market Volatility/Cyclicality The Company is subject to market volatility in the United States and world economy, as the success of the transactional offering is largely dependent on the global market for IPOs, secondary offerings, mergers and acquisitions, public and private debt offerings, leveraged buyouts, spinouts and other transactions. A variety of factors impact the global markets, including the regulatory and political environment. Recently, the U.S. IPO market and public debt market were disrupted by the U.S. federal government shutdown that occurred from December 2018 to January 2019. Future government shutdowns could affect volatility of any of these markets. The International segment is particularly susceptible to capital market volatility as most of the International business is capital markets transaction focused. The Company mitigates some of that risk by offering services in higher demand during a down market, like document management tools for the bankruptcy/restructuring process, and also by moving upstream from the filing process with products like Venue, the Companys data room solution. The Company also attempts to balance this volatility through supporting the quarterly/annual public company reporting process through its EDGAR filing services and ActiveDisclosure product, its investment markets regulatory and shareholder communications offering and continues to expand into adjacent growth businesses like data and analytics, which has recurring revenues and is not as susceptible to market volatility and cycles. The quarterly/annual public company reporting process work also subjects the Company to filing seasonality shortly after the end of each fiscal quarter, with peak periods during the course of the year. The seasonality and associated operational implications include the need to increase staff during peak periods through a combined strategy of hiring additional full-time and temporary personnel, increasing the premium time of existing staff, and outsourcing production for a number of services. Additionally, clients and their financial advisors have begun to increasingly rely on web-based services which allow clients to autonomously file and distribute compliance documents with regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. While the Company believes that its ActiveDisclosure and FundSuiteArc solutions are competitive in this space, competitors are continuing to develop technologies that aim to improve clients ability to autonomously produce and file documents to meet their regulatory obligations. The Company continues to remain focused on driving recurring revenue to mitigate market volatility. Regulatory Impact The SEC is adopting new as well as amended rules and forms to modernize the reporting and disclosure of information by registered investment companies. These changes are driving significant regulatory changes which impact the Companys customers within its Investment Markets business. On October 13, 2016, the SEC adopted a new N-PORT filing requirement, which requires certain registered investment companies to report information about their portfolio in XML, a structured data format, on a monthly basis, replacing what was previously a quarterly filing requirement. This rule also includes an annual N-CEN filing in XML, replacing a semi-annual filing requirement. Compliance dates depend on asset size and began as soon as June 1, 2018 for larger funds, with the first N-PORT filing deadlines beginning in April 2019. The Companys ArcFiling software solution can support both filings. The Company expects an increase in services revenue due to the increase in the frequency of filings for registered investment companies. On June 5, 2018, the SEC adopted Rule 30e-3 which provides certain registered investment companies with an option to electronically deliver shareholder reports and other materials rather than providing such reports in paper. Investors who prefer to receive reports in paper will continue to receive them in that format. While Rule 30e-3 was effective January 1, 2019, default electronic distribution pursuant to the rule will begin on January 1, 2021 due to a 24-month transition period, during which registered investment companies must notify investors of the upcoming change in transmission format of shareholder reports. The Company expects a decline in the volume of printed annual and semi-annual shareholder reports in 2021 and beyond as a result of Rule 30e-3. Raw Materials The primary raw materials used in the Companys printed products are paper and ink. The paper and ink is sourced from a small set of select suppliers to ensure consistent quality that meets the Companys performance expectations and provides for continuity of supply. The Company believes that the risk of incurring material losses as a result of a shortage in raw materials is unlikely and that the losses, if any, would not have a materially negative impact on the Companys business. Distribution The Companys products are distributed to end-users through the U.S or foreign postal services, through retail channels, electronically or by direct shipment to customer facilities. 32 Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the extensive use of managements estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The Companys significant accounting policies and critical estimates are disclosed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2018, as filed with the SEC on February 27, 2019. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 as Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 The following table shows the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018: 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Services net sales $ 127.9 $ 159.5 $ (31.6 ) (19.8 %) Products net sales 101.7 95.7 6.0 6.3 % Net sales 229.6 255.2 (25.6 ) (10.0 %) Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 75.4 85.9 (10.5 ) (12.2 %) Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 78.5 72.7 5.8 8.0 % Cost of sales 153.9 158.6 (4.7 ) (3.0 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 54.9 66.1 (11.2 ) (16.9 %) Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net 2.1 0.7 1.4 200.0 % Depreciation and amortization 12.1 10.4 1.7 16.3 % Income from operations $ 6.6 $ 19.4 $ (12.8 ) (66.0 %) Consolidated Net sales of services for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $31.6 million, or 19.8%, to $127.9 million, versus the three months ended March 31, 2018, including a $0.8 million, or 0.5%, decrease due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Net sales of services decreased $18.8 million due to the sale of the Language Solutions business. In addition, net sales of services decreased due to lower capital markets transactions volumes, primarily driven by the U.S. government shutdown in January 2019, and lower mutual fund print-related services, partially offset by growth in SaaS solutions, primarily in ActiveDisclosure and FundSuiteArc. Net sales of products for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $6.0 million, or 6.3%, to $101.7 million versus the three months ended March 31, 2018, including a $0.3 million, or 0.3%, decrease due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Net sales of products increased due to higher volumes in mutual fund print, driven by a special proxy project, and higher volumes in capital markets compliance. The increase in net sales of products was partially offset by lower capital markets transactions and lower commercial print volumes. Services cost of sales decreased $10.5 million, or 12.2%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , versus the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to the impact from the sale of the Language Solutions business. In addition, services cost of sales decreased due to lower volumes in capital markets transactions and mutual fund print-related services and cost control initiatives. As a percentage of net sales, services cost of sales increased 5.1% primarily due to unfavorable mix. Products cost of sales increased $5.8 million, or 8.0%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019, versus the three months ended March 31, 2018. Products cost of sales increased due to higher mutual fund print and capital markets compliance volumes, partially offset by lower capital markets transaction and commercial print volumes. As a percentage of net sales, products cost of sales increased 1.2%, primarily due to unfavorable mix. 33 Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased $ 11.2 million, or 16.9% , to $ 54.9 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to lower spin-off related transaction expenses , and the impact from the sale of the Language Solutions business . As a percentage of net sales, selling, general, and administrative expenses decreased from 25.9% for the three months March 31, 2018 to 23.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , primarily due to lower spin-off related transaction expenses . For the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company recorded net restructuring, impairment and other charges of $2.1 million, as compared to net restructuring, impairment and other charges of $0.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. In 2019, these charges included $2.0 million of employee termination costs for 72 employees, substantially all of whom were terminated as of March 31, 2019 and $0.1 million for other charges associated with Companys decision to withdraw in 2013 from certain multi-employer pension plans serving facilities that continued to operate for the three months ended March 31, 2019. In 2018, these charges included $0.5 million of lease termination and other restructuring costs, $0.1 million of employee termination costs and $0.1 million for other charges associated with the Companys decision to withdraw in 2013 from certain multi-employer pension plans serving facilities that continued to operate. Depreciation and amortization increased $1.7 million, or 16.3%, to $12.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. Depreciation and amortization included $3.7 million and $3.4 million of amortization of other intangible assets related to customer relationships and a tradename for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. Income from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2019 decreased $12.8 million, or 66.0%, to $6.6 million versus the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to lower volumes in capital markets transactions and mutual fund print-related services, partially offset by an increase in capital markets compliance volumes and lower spin-off related transaction expenses. 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Interest expense-net $ 8.9 $ 9.0 $ (0.1 ) (1.1 %) Net interest expense decreased $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) (Loss) earnings before income taxes $ (1.7 ) $ 11.2 $ (12.9 ) (115.2 %) Income tax (benefit) expense (0.3 ) 3.5 (3.8 ) (108.6 %) Effective income tax rate 17.6 % 31.3 % The effective income tax rate was 17.6% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to 31.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The effective income tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2019 reflects lower earnings as well as a decrease in the taxation of certain foreign earnings, referred to in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1) (Tax Act) as global intangible low-taxed income and foreign derived intangible income. Information by Segment The following tables summarize net sales, income (loss) from operations and certain items impacting comparability within each of the operating segments and Corporate. U.S. Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 202.8 $ 213.1 Income from operations 21.3 26.4 Operating margin 10.5 % 12.4 % Spin-off related transaction expenses 6.3 Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net 0.6 0.7 34 Net Sales for the Three Months Ended March 31, Reporting unit 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Capital Markets $ 109.7 $ 117.5 $ (7.8 ) (6.6 %) Investment Markets* 93.1 89.5 3.6 4.0 % Language Solutions* 6.1 (6.1 ) (100.0 %) Total U.S. $ 202.8 $ 213.1 $ (10.3 ) (4.8 %) *Certain prior year amounts were restated to conform to the Companys current reporting unit structure. Net sales for the U.S. segment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $202.8 million, a decrease of $10.3 million, or 4.8%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. Net sales decreased due to lower capital markets transaction volumes, the sale of the Language Solutions business and lower commercial print volumes, partially offset by higher mutual fund print volumes and growth in SaaS solutions, primarily in ActiveDisclosure. An analysis of net sales by reporting unit follows: Capital Markets: Sales decreased due to lower capital markets transaction volumes, primarily driven by the U.S. government shutdown in January 2019, partially offset by higher volumes in capital markets compliance and ActiveDisclosure. Investment Markets: Sales increased due to higher mutual fund print volumes, primarily related to a special proxy project, partially offset by lower commercial print volumes. Language Solutions: Sales decreased due to the sale of the Language Solutions business in July 2018. U.S. segment income from operations decreased $5.1 million, or 19.3%, for the three months ended March 31, 2019 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to the impact of lower net sales volumes and unfavorable mix, partially offset by lower spin-off related transaction expenses. Operating margins decreased from 12.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to 10.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to unfavorable mix, partially offset by lower spin-off related transaction expenses, which favorably impacted margins by 3.0 percentage points. International Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 26.8 $ 42.1 (Loss) income from operations (3.3 ) 2.5 Operating margin (12.3 %) 5.9 % Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net 0.6 (0.1 ) Net sales for the International segment for the three months ended March 31, 2019 were $26.8 million, a decrease of $15.3 million, or 36.3%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 including a $1.1 million, or 2.6%, decrease due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Net sales decreased due to the sale of the Language Solutions business and lower capital markets transaction volumes, primarily driven by the U.S. government shutdown in January 2019. The decrease in net sales was partially offset by higher FundSuiteArc volumes. International segment income from operations decreased $5.8 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018, primarily due to the impact of the sale of the Language Solutions business, lower capital markets transaction volumes, an increase in restructuring, impairment and other charges and an increase in information technology allocated expenses to the International segment, partially offset by higher FundSuiteArc volumes. Operating margins decreased from 5.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 to negative 12.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2019 due to unfavorable mix, higher restructuring, impairment and other charges which negatively impacted margins by 2.5 percentage points and higher information technology allocated expenses to the International segment. 35 Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 11.4 $ 9.5 Share-based compensation expense 1.5 1.8 Spin-off related transaction expenses 0.4 1.5 Disposition-related expenses 0.5 Acquisition-related expenses 0.2 Investor-related expenses 1.0 Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net 0.9 0.1 Corporate operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2019 increased $1.9 million versus the same period in 2018 primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation expense, investor-related expenses, restructuring, impairment and other charges and share-based compensation expense. Non-GAAP Measures The Company believes that certain Non-GAAP measures, such as Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, provide useful information about the Companys operating results and enhance the overall ability to assess the Companys financial performance. The Company uses these measures, together with other measures of performance under GAAP, to compare the relative performance of operations in planning, budgeting and reviewing the performance of its business. Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA allows investors to make a more meaningful comparison between the Companys core business operating results over different periods of time. The Company believes that Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Companys results under GAAP and the accompanying reconciliations, provides useful information about the Companys business without regard to potential distortions. By eliminating potential differences in results of operations between periods caused by factors such as depreciation and amortization methods, historic cost and age of assets, restructuring, impairment and other charges, acquisition-related expenses and gain or loss on certain equity investments and asset sales, the Company believes that Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful additional basis for comparing the current performance of the underlying operations being evaluated. Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA is not presented in accordance with GAAP and has important limitations as an analytical tool. These measures should not be considered as a substitute for analysis of the Companys results as reported under GAAP. In addition, these measures are defined differently by different companies in our industry and, accordingly, such measures may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures of other companies. In addition to the factors listed above, the following items are excluded from Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA: Share-based compensation expense . Although share-based compensation is a key incentive offered to certain of the Companys employees, business performance is evaluated excluding share-based compensation expenses. Depending upon the size, timing and the terms of grants, non-cash compensation expense may vary but will recur in future periods. Investor-related expenses. Expenses incurred related to non-routine investor matters, which include third-party advisory and consulting fees and legal fees. 36 Spin-off related transaction expenses. The Company has incurred expenses related to the Separation from R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company (RRD) (the Separation) to operate as a standalone publicly traded company. These expenses include third-party consulting fees, information technology expenses, employee retention payments, legal fees and other costs related to the Separation, including system implementation expenses related to transitioning from transition service agreements with RRD and LSC Communications, Inc. ( LSC ) . Management does not believe that these expenses are reflective of ongoing operating results. Disposition-related expenses. Expenses incurred related to the disposition of the Language Solutions business. These expenses primarily include legal fees, third-party advisory and consulting fees and other costs related to the disposition. A reconciliation of GAAP net (loss) earnings to Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 for these adjustments is presented in the following table: Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 2018 (in millions) Net (loss) earnings $ (1.4 ) $ 7.7 Restructuring, impairment and other chargesnet 2.1 0.7 Share-based compensation expense 1.5 1.8 Investor-related expenses 1.0 Spin-off related transaction expenses 0.4 7.8 Disposition-related expenses 0.5 Acquisition-related expenses 0.2 Depreciation and amortization 12.1 10.4 Interest expensenet 8.9 9.0 Investment and other incomenet (0.6 ) (0.8 ) Income tax (benefit) expense (0.3 ) 3.5 Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA $ 23.7 $ 40.8 Share-based compensation expense. Included pre-tax charges of $1.5 million and $1.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. 2019 Restructuring, impairment and other chargesnet . The three months ended March 31, 2019 included $2.0 million for employee termination costs and $0.1 million for other charges. 2018 Restructuring, impairment and other chargesnet . The three months ended March 31, 2018 included $0.5 million for lease termination and other restructuring costs, $0.1 million for employee termination costs and $0.1 million for other charges associated with the Companys decision to withdraw in 2013 from certain multi-employer pension plans serving facilities that continued to operate. Investor-related expenses. Included pre-tax charges of $1.0 million related to non-routine investor matters. These expenses include third-party advisory and consulting fees and legal fees for the three months ended March 31, 2019. Spin-off related transaction expenses. Included pre-tax charges of $0.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 primarily related to third-party consulting fees. Included pre-tax charges of $7.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to third-party consulting fees, information technology expenses, legal fees and other costs related to the Separation. Disposition-related expenses. Included pre-tax charges of $0.5 million primarily related to the disposition of the Language Solutions business, including legal fees, third party advisory and consulting fees and other costs for the three months ended March 31, 2018. 37 Acquisition-related expenses . Included pre-tax charges of $0.2 million primarily related to legal expenses for the three months ended March 31 , 2018 associated with completed or contemplated acquisitions . Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support its ongoing operations and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Cash on hand, operating cash flows and the Companys $300.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Facility) are the primary sources of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, payment of interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, capital expenditures necessary to support productivity improvement and growth, acquisitions and completion of restructuring programs. The following describes the Companys cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018. Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities Operating cash inflows are largely attributable to sales of the Companys services and products. Operating cash outflows are largely attributable to recurring expenditures for labor, rent, raw materials and other operating activities. Net cash used in operating activities was $68.3 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to $53.6 million net used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase in net cash used in operating activities reflected timing differences in payments related to taxes. Cash Flows Provided By Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $17.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $6.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Capital expenditures were $15.1 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019, an increase of $8.7 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018. The increase in capital expenditures was primarily driven by an investment in digital printers during the three months ended March 31, 2019. The Company expects that capital expenditures for 2019 will be approximately $40.0 million to $45.0 million, compared to $37.1 million in 2018. Cash Flows Used for Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was $47.1 million compared to $20.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018. During the three months ended March 31, 2019, the Company received $178.5 million of proceeds from revolving facility borrowings, partially offset by $130.0 million of payments on revolving facility borrowings. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company received $88.0 million of proceeds from revolving facility borrowings, offset by $68.0 million of payments on revolving facility borrowings. Liquidity Cash and cash equivalents of $10.5 million at March 31, 2019 included $3.2 million in the U.S. and $7.3 million at international locations. As a result of the transition tax incurred pursuant to the Tax Act, the Company now has the ability to repatriate any previously taxed foreign cash associated with the foreign earnings subject to the U.S. parent with minimal tax consequences. The Company intends to repatriate earnings up to its net earnings previously subject to U.S. tax during 2019. The Company maintains its assertion of indefinite reinvestment on all foreign earnings and other outside basis differences to indicate that the Company remains indefinitely reinvested in operations outside of the U.S. with the exception of the previously taxed foreign cash already subject to U.S. tax. The Company began to repatriate excess cash at its foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. during the three months ended March 31, 2019 and expects additional repatriations during 2019. The Company recorded deferred taxes attributable to the book-over-tax outside basis differences in its foreign subsidiaries for the excess cash repatriated as of March 31, 2019. 38 On December 18, 2018, the Company entered into a second amendment to the Credit Agreement which extended the maturity date of the Revolving Facility to December 18, 2023, reduced the interest rate margin percentages and facility fees applicable to the Revolving Facility, increased the allowable annual dividends from $15.0 million to $20.0 million in the aggregate and modified the financial maintenance and negative covenants in the Credit Agreement. The Companys debt maturity schedule as of March 31, 2019 is shown in the table below: Debt Maturity Schedule Total 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Thereafter Notes (a) $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 300.0 Borrowings under the Term Loan Credit Facility (b) 72.5 72.5 Borrowings under the Revolving Facility 48.5 48.5 Total $ 421.0 $ $ $ $ $ 121.0 $ 300.0 (a) Excludes unamortized debt issuance costs of $4.6 million which do not represent contractual commitments with a fixed amount or maturity date. (b) Excludes unamortized debt issuance costs of $3.6 million and a discount of $1.1 million which do not represent contractual commitments with a fixed amount or maturity date. The Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants, including, but not limited to, a minimum Interest Coverage Ratio and the Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio, as defined in and calculated pursuant to the Credit Agreement, that, in part, restrict the Companys ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, engage in mergers and consolidations, make restricted payments and dispose of certain assets. The Credit Agreement generally allows annual dividend payments of up to $20.0 million in aggregate, though additional dividends may be allowed subject to certain conditions. Each of these covenants is subject to important exceptions and qualifications. The indenture governing the Notes contains certain covenants applicable to the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, including limitations on: (1) liens; (2) indebtedness; (3) mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; (4) sales, transfers and other dispositions of assets; (5) loans and other investments; (6) dividends and other distributions, stock repurchases and redemptions and other restricted payments; (7) restrictions affecting subsidiaries; (8) transactions with affiliates; and (9) designations of unrestricted subsidiaries. Each of these covenants is subject to important exceptions and qualifications. As of March 31, 2019, there was $48.5 million of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility. Based on the Companys results of operations for the twelve months ended March 31, 2019 and existing debt, the Company would have had the ability to utilize an incremental $112.6 million of the $300.0 million Revolving Facility and not have been in violation of the terms of the agreement. The current availability under the Revolving Facility and net available liquidity as of March 31, 2019 is shown in the table below: March 31, 2019 Availability (in millions) Revolving Facility $ 300.0 Availability reduction from covenants 138.9 $ 161.1 Usage Borrowings under the Revolving Facility 48.5 Impact on availability related to outstanding letters of credit $ 48.5 Current availability at March 31, 2019 $ 112.6 Cash 10.5 Net Available Liquidity $ 123.1 The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of March 31, 2019, and expects to remain in compliance based on managements estimates of operating and financial results for 2019 and the foreseeable future. However, declines in market and economic conditions or demand for certain of the Companys products and services could impact the Companys ability to remain in compliance with its debt covenants in future periods. As of March 31, 2019, the Company met all the conditions required to borrow under the Credit Agreement and management expects the Company to continue to meet the applicable borrowing conditions. 39 The failure of a financial institution supporting the Revolving Facility would reduce the size of the Companys committed facility unless a replacement institution was added. As of March 31, 2019 , the Revolving Facility is supported by sixteen U.S. and international financial institutions. As of March 31, 2019, the Company had $3.2 million in outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees, of which none reduced the availability under the Revolving Facility. Acquisitions and Dispositions During the three months ended March 31, 2019 and the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company paid $2.2 million and $12.5 million, net of cash acquired, respectively, for the acquisition of eBrevia. $2.0 million of the purchase price, excluding contingent consideration, was payable as of March 31, 2019 and is expected to be paid during 2019. $1.9 million of the purchase price related to amounts held in escrow was payable as of March 31, 2019 and is expected to be paid during 2020. Risk Management The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt. At March 31, 2019, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable-interest borrowings was $121.0 million. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income or expense and cash flows. A hypothetical 10% change in yield would change the fair values of fixed-rate debt at March 31, 2019 by approximately $10.4 million, or 3.5%. The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in many countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent that borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the subsidiary, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange spot and forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. OTHER INFORMATION Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards Recently issued accounting standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 16, New Accounting Pronouncements , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Company has made forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the Company. Generally, forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future actions, events, or results of operations of the Company. These statements may include words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, forecasts, intends, plans, continues, believes, may, will, goals and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify our forward-looking statements. 40 Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. The following important factors, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this Quar terly Report on Form 10-Q, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any such forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: the volatility of the global economy and financial markets, and its impact on transactional volume; failure to offer high quality customer support and services; the retention of existing, and continued attraction of additional, clients and key employees; the growth of new technologies with which we may be able to adequately compete; our inability to maintain client referrals; vulnerability to adverse events as a result of becoming a stand-alone company following the Separation from RRD, including the inability to obtain as favorable of terms from third-party vendors; the competitive market for our products and industry fragmentation affecting our prices; the ability to gain client acceptance of our new products and technologies; delay in market acceptance of our products and services due to undetected errors or failures found in our products and services; failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions; failure to properly use and protect client and employee information and data; the effect of a material breach of security or other performance issues of any of our or our vendors systems; factors that affect client demand, including changes in economic conditions, national or international regulations and clients budgetary constraints; our ability to access debt and the capital markets due to adverse credit market conditions; the effect of increasing costs of providing healthcare and other benefits to our employees; changes in the availability or costs of key materials (such as ink and paper) or in prices received for the sale of by-products; failure to protect our proprietary technology; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our business; availability to maintain our brands and reputation; the retention of existing, and continued attraction of, key employees, including management; the effects of operating in international markets, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the effect of economic and political conditions on a regional, national or international basis; lack of market for our common stock; lack of history as an operating company and costs associated with being an independent company; and failure to achieve certain intended benefits of the Separation. Because forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Undue reliance should not be placed on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or the date of any document that may be incorporated by reference into this document. Consequently, readers of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should consider these forward looking statements only as the Companys current plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company does not undertake and specifically declines any obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect future events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to reflect any new events or any change in conditions or circumstances. 41