Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Company Overview Donnelley Financial Solutions, Inc. (Donnelley Financial, or the Company) is a financial communications services company that supports global capital markets compliance and transaction needs for its corporate clients and their advisors (such as law firms and investment bankers) and global investment management compliance and analytics needs for mutual fund companies, variable annuity providers and broker/dealers. The Company provides content management, multi-channel content distribution, data management and analytics services, collaborative workflow and business reporting tools, and translations and other language services in support of its clients communications requirements. The Company operates in two business segments: United States . The U.S. segment is comprised of three reporting units: capital markets, investment markets, and language solutions and other. The Company services capital market and investment market clients in the U.S by delivering products and services to help create, manage and deliver financial communications to investors and regulators. The Company provides capital market and investment market clients with communication tools and services to allow them to comply with their ongoing regulatory filings. In addition, the U.S. segment provides clients with communications services to create, manage and deliver registration statements, prospectuses, proxies and other communications to regulators and investors. The U.S. segment also includes language solutions and commercial printing capabilities. International . The International segment includes operations in Asia, Europe, Canada and Latin America. The international business is primarily focused on working with international capital markets clients on capital markets offerings and regulatory compliance related activities within the United States. In addition, the International segment provides services to international investment market clients to allow them to comply with applicable U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, as well as language solutions to international clients. The Company reports certain unallocated general and administrative activities and associated expenses within Corporate, including, in part, executive, legal, finance, marketing and certain facility costs. In addition, certain costs and earnings of employee benefit plans, such as pension income and share-based compensation, are included in Corporate and are not allocated to the reportable segments. For the Companys financial results and the presentation of certain other financial information by segment, see Note 13, Segment Information , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Products and Services The Company separately reports its net sales and related cost of sales for its products and services offerings. The Companys services offerings consist of all non-print offerings, including document composition, compliance related EDGAR filing services, transaction solutions, language solutions and the Companys software-as-a-service solutions (SaaS), including Venue Virtual Data Room, the FundSuiteArc software platform, ActiveDisclosure and data and analytics, among others. The Companys product offerings primarily consist of conventional and digital printed products and related shipping costs. Spin-off Transaction On October 1, 2016, Donnelley Financial became an independent publicly traded company through the distribution by RRD of approximately 26.2 million shares, or 80.75%, of Donnelley Financial common stock to RRD shareholders (the Separation). Holders of RRD common stock received one share of Donnelley Financial common stock for every eight shares of RRD common stock held on September 23, 2016. RRD retained approximately 6.2 million shares of Donnelley Financial common stock, or a 19.25% interest (as of the Separation date) in Donnelley Financial, as part of the Separation. Donnelley Financials common stock began regular-way trading under the ticker symbol DFIN on the New York Stock Exchange on October 3, 2016. On October 1, 2016, RRD also completed the previously announced separation of LSC Communications, Inc. (LSC), its publishing and retail-centric print services and office products business. On March 28, 2017, RRD completed the sale of 6.2 million shares of LSC common stock (RRDs remaining ownership stake in LSC) in an underwritten public offering. As a result, beginning in the quarter ended June 30, 2017, LSC is no longer qualified as a related party of the Company. 33 On March 24, 2017, pursuant to the Stockholder and Registration Rights Agreement, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 to register the offering and sale of the Companys common stock retained by RRD. The Registration Statement on Form S-1, as amended, was declared effective by the SEC on June 13, 2017. On June 21, 2017, RRD completed the sale of approximately 6.1 million shares of the Companys common stock in an underwritten public offering. RRD retained approximately 0.1 million shares of the Companys common stock upon consummation of the offering which were subsequently sold by RRD on August 4, 2017. In conjunction with the underwritten public offering, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase approximately 0.9 million of the Companys shares (the Option Shares). The Company received approximately $18.8 million in net proceeds from the sale of the Option Shares, after deducting estimated underwriting discounts and commissions. The proceeds were used to reduce outstanding debt under the Revolving Facility (as defined in Liquidity and Capital Resources ). Beginning in the quarter ended September 30, 2017, RRD no longer qualified as a related party, therefore amounts disclosed related to RRD are only presented for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Executive Overview First Quarter Overview Net sales decreased by $12.1 million, or 4.5%, for the first quarter of 2018 compared to the same period in the prior year. There was a $2.5 million, or 0.9%, increase due to changes in foreign exchange rates and a $1.6 million, or 0.6%, increase due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Net sales decreased due to lower mutual fund print and capital markets compliance volumes, partially offset by an increase in translations services and virtual data room services. On January 1, 2018, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (ASU 2014-09 or the new revenue recognition standard). The Company recognized the cumulative effect of applying the standard as an opening transition adjustment to retained earnings, which increased retained earnings at January 1, 2018 by $0.9 million. The comparative periods have not been restated and continue to be reported under the accounting standards in effect for those periods. As a result of the adoption of ASU 2014-09, revenue recognition has been accelerated for certain arrangements with multiple performance obligations as revenue is now recognized upon the completion of each performance obligation rather than upon completion of all services and shipment of the related document, if applicable. Revenue has also been accelerated for certain inventory which has been invoiced but not yet shipped at the customers request. Additionally, certain revenues related to virtual data room services have been deferred to be recognized over the term of the contract. Refer to Note 2, Revenue , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. OUTLOOK Competition Technological and regulatory changes, including the electronic distribution of documents and data hosting of media content, continue to impact the market for our products and services. One of the Companys competitive strengths is that it offers a wide array of communications products, compliance services and technologies, a global platform, exceptional sales and service and regulatory domain expertise, which provide differentiated solutions for its clients. The financial communications services industry, in general, is highly competitive and barriers to entry have decreased as a result of technology innovation. Despite some consolidation in recent years, the industry remains highly fragmented in the United States and even more so internationally with many in-country alternative providers. The Company expects competition to increase from existing competitors, as well as new and emerging market entrants. In addition, as the Company expands its product and service offerings, it may face competition from new and existing competitors. The Company competes primarily on product quality and functionality, service levels, subject matter regulatory expertise, security and compliance characteristics, price and reputation. 34 The impact of digital technologies has been felt in many print products, most acutely in the Companys mutual fund, variable annuity and public company compliance business offerings. While the Company maintains a high-touch, service oriented business technology changes have provided alternatives to the Companys clients that allow them to manage more of the financial disclosure process themselves. For years, the Company has invested in its own applications, ActiveDisclosure, FundSuiteArc and Venue Virtual Data Room (Venue) to serve clients and increase retention and has invested to expand capabilities and address new market sectors. The future impact of technology on the business is difficult to predict and could result in additional expenditures to restructure impacted operations or develop new technologies. In addition, the Company has made targeted acquisitions and investments in its existing business to offer clients innovative services and solutions, including acquisitions of EDGAR Online and MultiCorpora and investments in AuditBoard (formerly known as Soxhub), Mediant, Peloton and eBrevia that support the Companys position as a technology service leader in the industry. The Companys competitors for SEC filing services for public company compliance clients include full service financial communications providers, technology point solution providers focused on financial communications and general technology providers. The Companys competitors for SEC filing services for investment markets clients include full service traditional providers, small niche technology providers and local and regional print providers that bid against the Company for printing, mailing and fulfillment services. Language solutions competes with global and local language service providers and language/globalization software vendors. Market Volatility/Cyclicality The Company is subject to market volatility in the United States and world economy, as the success of the transactional offering is largely dependent on the global market for IPOs, secondary offerings, mergers and acquisitions, public and private debt offerings, leveraged buyouts, spinouts and other transactions. The International segment is particularly susceptible to capital market volatility as most of the International business is capital markets transaction focused. The Company mitigates some of that risk by offering services in higher demand during a down market, like document management tools for the bankruptcy/restructuring process, and also moving upstream from the filing process with products like Venue, the Companys data room solution. The Company also attempts to balance this volatility through supporting the quarterly/annual public company reporting process through its EDGAR filing services and ActiveDisclosure product, its investment markets regulatory and shareholder communications offering and continues to expand into adjacent growth businesses like language solutions and data and analytics, which have recurring revenues and are not as susceptible to market volatility and cycles. This quarterly/annual public company reporting process work also subjects the Company to filing seasonality shortly after the end of each fiscal quarter, with peak periods during the course of the year that have operational implications. Such operational implications include the need to increase staff during peak periods through a combined strategy of hiring additional full-time and temporary personnel, increasing the premium time of existing staff, and outsourcing production for a number of services. Additionally, clients and their financial advisors have begun to increasingly rely on web-based services which allow clients to autonomously file and distribute compliance documents with regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. While the Company believes that its ActiveDisclosure and FundSuiteArc solutions are competitive in this space, competitors are continuing to develop technologies that aim to improve clients ability to autonomously produce and file documents to meet their regulatory obligations. The Company continues to remain focused on driving recurring revenue in order to mitigate market volatility. Raw Materials The primary raw materials used in the Companys printed products are paper and ink. The paper and ink supply is sourced from a small set of select suppliers in order to ensure consistent quality that meets the Companys performance expectations and provides for continuity of supply. The Company believes that the risk of incurring material losses as a result of a shortage in raw materials is unlikely and that the losses, if any, would not have a materially negative impact on the Companys business. 35 Distribution The Companys products are distributed to end-users through the U.S or foreign postal services, through retail channels, electronically or by direct shipment to customer facilities. Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the extensive use of managements estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from these estimates. The Companys significant accounting policies and critical estimates are disclosed in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, as filed with the SEC on February 28, 2018. Significant changes to the Companys significant accounting policies and critical estimates due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard are included in Note 2, Revenue , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its unaudited condensed consolidated results of operations, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Companys unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 as Compared to the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 The following table shows the results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017: 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Services net sales $ 159.5 $ 154.0 $ 5.5 3.6 % Products net sales 95.7 113.3 (17.6 ) (15.5 %) Net sales 255.2 267.3 (12.1 ) (4.5 %) Services cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 85.9 77.7 8.2 10.6 % Services cost of sales with RRD affiliates (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)* 9.9 (9.9 ) (100.0 %) Products cost of sales (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 72.7 63.0 9.7 15.4 % Products cost of sales with RRD affiliates (exclusive of depreciation and amortization)* 18.8 (18.8 ) (100.0 %) Cost of sales 158.6 169.4 (10.8 ) (6.4 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses (exclusive of depreciation and amortization) 66.1 57.5 8.6 15.0 % Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net 0.7 3.8 (3.1 ) (81.6 %) Depreciation and amortization 10.4 10.2 0.2 2.0 % Income from operations $ 19.4 $ 26.4 $ (7.0 ) (26.5 %) * Beginning in the quarter ended June 30, 2017, LSC no longer qualified as a related party, therefore the amounts disclosed related to LSC are only presented for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Beginning in the quarter ended September 30, 2017, RRD no longer qualified as a related party, therefore the amounts disclosed related to RRD are only presented for the three months ended March 31, 2017 . Consolidated Net sales of services for the three months ended March 31, 2018 increased $5.5 million, or 3.6%, to $159.5 million, versus the three months ended March 31, 2017, including a $2.8 million, or 1.8%, increase due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Net sales of services increased due to higher translations services and virtual data room services and a $2.6 million, or 1.7%, increase due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard, partially offset by lower volumes in both capital markets transactions and compliance volumes. 36 Net sales of products for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased $ 17.6 million, or 15.5% , to $ 95.7 million versus the three months ended March 31, 2017, including a $ 0.3 million, or 0.3% , decrease due to changes in foreign exchange rates and a $1.0 million or 0.9% decrease due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. N et sales of products decreased due to lower mutual fund print volumes and capital markets compliance volumes. Services cost of sales decreased $1.7 million, or 1.9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, versus the three months ended March 31, 2017. Services cost of sales decreased due to sales mix and cost control initiatives, partially offset by a $0.4 million, or 0.5%, increase due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. As a percentage of net sales, services cost of sales decreased 3.0% primarily due to favorable sales mix. Products cost of sales decreased $9.1 million, or 11.1%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, versus the three months ended March 31, 2017, including a $1.4 million, or 1.7%, decrease due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Products cost of sales decreased due to lower volumes in mutual fund print and capital markets compliance and cost control initiatives. As a percentage of net sales, products cost of sales increased 3.8% primarily due to unfavorable mix. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $8.6 million, or 15.0%, to $66.1 million, for the three months ended March 31, 2018, as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to an increase in spin-off related transaction expenses. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general, and administrative expenses increased from 21.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to 25.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 primarily due to increased spin-off related transaction expenses. For the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company recorded net restructuring, impairment and other charges of $0.7 million, as compared to $3.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. In 2018, these charges included $0.5 million of lease termination and other restructuring costs, $0.1 million of employee termination costs, and $0.1 million for other charges associated with the Companys decision to withdraw in 2013 from certain multi-employer pension plans serving facilities that continued to operate. In 2017, the Company incurred lease termination and other restructuring charges of $3.3 million of employee termination costs for 87 employees, $0.4 million of lease termination and other restructuring costs and $0.1 million for other charges associated with the Companys decision to withdraw in 2013 from certain multi-employer pension plans serving facilities that continued to operate. Depreciation and amortization increased $0.2 million, or 2.0%, to $10.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. Depreciation and amortization included $3.4 million and $3.6 million of amortization of other intangible assets related to customer relationships, trade names and non-compete agreements for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Income from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased $7.0 million, or 26.5%, to $19.4 million versus the three months ended March 31, 2017, due to an increase in spin-off related transaction expenses and lower sales volumes, partially offset by cost control initiatives and a decrease in restructuring, impairment and other charges. 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Interest expense-net $ 9.0 $ 11.1 $ (2.1 ) (18.9 %) Net interest expense decreased $2.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 versus the same period in 2017, primarily due to a decrease in average outstanding debt. 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Earnings before income taxes $ 11.2 $ 16.1 $ (4.9 ) (30.4 %) Income tax expense 3.5 6.8 (3.3 ) (48.5 %) Effective income tax rate 31.3 % 42.2 % The effective income tax rate was 31.3% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to 42.2% for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to changes in U.S. corporate tax law pursuant to the enactment of the U.S. Federal Tax Cut and Jobs Act (the Tax Act) on December 22, 2017. Refer to Note 8, Income Taxes , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the impact of the Tax Act to the Companys financial statements. 37 Information by Segment The following tables summarize net sales, income (loss) from operations and certain items impacting comparability within each of the operating segments and Corporate. U.S. Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 213.1 $ 230.4 Income from operations 26.4 37.0 Operating margin 12.4 % 16.1 % Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net 0.7 2.5 Spin-off related transaction expenses 6.3 Net Sales for the Three Months Ended March 31, Reporting unit 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Capital Markets $ 117.5 $ 119.1 $ (1.6 ) (1.3 %) Investment Markets 84.6 100.1 (15.5 ) (15.5 %) Language Solutions and other 11.0 11.2 (0.2 ) (1.8 %) Total U.S. $ 213.1 $ 230.4 $ (17.3 ) (7.5 %) Net sales for the U.S. segment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $213.1 million, a decrease of $17.3 million, or 7.5%, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, including a $1.0 million, or 0.4%, increase due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Net sales decreased due to lower mutual fund, capital markets compliance and transactions volumes, partially offset by higher virtual data room services volumes and the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. An analysis of net sales by reporting unit follows: Capital Markets: Sales decreased due to lower transactions and compliance volumes, partially offset by a $6.9 million increase due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard and higher volumes in virtual data room services. Investment Markets: Sales decreased due to lower mutual fund print volumes and a $5.9 million decrease due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Language Solutions and other: Sales decreased slightly due to lower volumes in commercial print. U.S. segment income from operations decreased $10.6 million, or 28.6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2018 as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, due to increased spin-off related transaction expenses and lower volumes in mutual fund print, capital markets transactions and compliance, partially offset by cost control initiatives, lower restructuring, impairment and other charges and the impact from the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard. Operating margins decreased from 16.1% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to 12.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 of which 3.0 percentage points was due to an increase in spin-off related transaction expenses. Operating margins were also impacted by lower volumes, partially offset by cost control initiatives and lower restructuring, impairment and other charges which impacted margins by 0.8 percentage points. International Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 42.1 $ 36.9 Income from operations 2.5 0.2 Operating margin 5.9 % 0.5 % Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net (0.1 ) 0.7 38 Net sales for the International segment for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were $ 42.1 million, an increase of $ 5.2 million, or 14.1% , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 including a $ 2.5 million, or 6.8% , increase due to changes in foreign exchange rates and a $0.6 million, or 1.6%, increase due to the adoption of the new revenue recognition standard . Net sales increased due to higher volumes in translations services, capital markets transactions and mutual funds. International segment income from operations increased $2.3 million compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017, due to higher sales volume and lower restructuring, impairment and other charges. Operating margins increased from 0.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2017 to 5.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to favorable sales mix and lower restructuring, impairment and other charges which impacted margins by 2.1 percentage points. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 9.5 $ 10.8 Share-based compensation expense 1.8 1.1 Spin-off related transaction expenses 1.5 2.7 Restructuring, impairment and other charges-net 0.1 0.6 Acquisition-related expenses 0.2 Corporate operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 decreased $1.3 million versus the three months ended March 31, 2017, primarily due to lower spin-off related transaction expenses and restructuring, impairment and other charges, offset by an increase in share-based compensation expense. Non-GAAP Measures The Company believes that certain Non-GAAP measures, such as Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, provide useful information about the Companys operating results and enhance the overall ability to assess the Companys financial performance. The Company uses these measures, together with other measures of performance under GAAP, to compare the relative performance of operations in planning, budgeting and reviewing the performance of its business. Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA allows investors to make a more meaningful comparison between the Companys core business operating results over different periods of time. The Company believes that Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Companys results under GAAP and the accompanying reconciliations, provides useful information about the Companys business without regard to potential distortions. By eliminating potential differences in results of operations between periods caused by factors such as depreciation and amortization methods, historic cost and age of assets, financing and capital structures, taxation positions or regimes, restructuring, impairment and other charges, acquisition-related expenses and gain or loss on certain equity investments and asset sales, the Company believes that Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful additional basis for comparing the current performance of the underlying operations being evaluated. Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA is not presented in accordance with GAAP and has important limitations as an analytical tool. These measures should not be considered as a substitute for analysis of the Companys results as reported under GAAP. In addition, these measures are defined differently by different companies in our industry and, accordingly, such measures may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures of other companies. 39 In addition to the factors listed above, the following items are excluded from Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA: Share-based compensation expense . Although share-based compensation is a key incentive offered to certain of the Companys employees, business performance is evaluated excluding share-based compensation expenses. Depending upon the size, timing and the terms of grants, non-cash compensation expense may vary but will recur in future periods. Prior periods have been revised to reflect this adjustment. Spin-off related transaction expenses. The Company has incurred expenses related to the Separation to operate as a standalone publicly traded company. These expenses include third-party consulting fees, information technology expenses, employee retention payments, legal fees and other costs related to the Separation, including system implementation expenses related to transitioning from transition services agreements with RRD and LSC. Management does not believe that these expenses are reflective of ongoing operating results. This adjustment does not include expenses incurred prior to the Separation. A reconciliation of GAAP net earnings to Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 for these adjustments is presented in the following table: Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 (in millions) Net earnings $ 7.7 $ 9.3 Restructuring, impairment and other chargesnet 0.7 3.8 Share-based compensation expense 1.8 1.1 Spin-off related transaction expenses 7.8 2.7 Acquisition-related expenses 0.2 Depreciation and amortization 10.4 10.2 Interest expensenet 9.0 11.1 Investment and other incomenet (0.8 ) (0.8 ) Income tax expense 3.5 6.8 Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA $ 40.3 $ 44.2 2018 Restructuring, impairment and other chargesnet . The three months ended March 31, 2018 included $0.5 million for lease termination and other restructuring costs, $0.1 million for employee termination costs and $0.1 million for other charges associated with the Companys decision to withdraw in 2013 from certain multi-employer pension plans serving facilities that continued to operate. 2017 Restructuring, impairment and other chargesnet . The three months ended March 31, 2017 included $3.3 million for employee termination costs, $0.4 million of lease termination and other restructuring costs and $0.1 million for other charges associated with the Companys decision to withdraw in 2013 from certain multi-employer pension plans serving facilities that continued to operate. Share-based compensation expense. Included pre-tax charges of $1.8 million and $1.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Spin-off related transaction expenses. Included pre-tax charges of $7.8 million and $2.7 million related to third-party consulting fees, information technology expenses, legal fees and other costs related to the Separation for the three months ended March 31, 2018, and 2017, respectively. Acquisition-related expenses. Included pre-tax charges of $0.2 million primarily related to legal expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 associated with contemplated acquisitions. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support its ongoing operations and to invest in future growth to create value for its shareholders. Cash on hand, operating cash flows and the Companys $300.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the Revolving Facility) are the primary sources of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, payment of interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, capital expenditures necessary to support productivity improvement and growth, acquisitions and completion of restructuring programs. 40 The following describes the Companys cash flows for the three months ended March 31 , 2018 and 2017. Cash Flows Used For Operating Activities Operating cash inflows are largely attributable to sales of the Companys services and products. Operating cash outflows are largely attributable to recurring expenditures for labor, rent, raw materials and other operating activities. Net cash used in operating activities was $53.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $38.2 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The increase in net cash used in operating activities reflected higher payments for incentive compensation costs, partially offset by lower payments related to interest. Cash Flows Used For Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $6.4 million for the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to $7.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. Capital expenditures were $6.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018, an increase of $2.1 million as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017. The Company expects that capital expenditures for 2018 will be approximately $40.0 million to $45.0 million, compared to $27.8 million in 2017. For the three months ended March 31, 2017, cash used in investing activities included $3.4 million for the purchase of an investment in AuditBoard. Cash Flows Provided By Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was $20.4 million compared to $21.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2017. During the three months ended March 31, 2018, the Company received $88.0 million of proceeds from revolving facility borrowings, offset by $68.0 million of payments on revolving facility borrowings. During the three months ended March 31, 2017, the Company received $20.0 million of net proceeds from revolving facility borrowings and $3.1 million in net transfers from RRD and its affiliates in connection with the Separation. Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies In connection with the Separation, the Company entered into transition services agreements separately with RRD and LSC, under which, in exchange for the fees specified in the arrangements, RRD and LSC agree to provide certain services to the Company and the Company agrees to provide certain services to RRD, respectively, for up to 24 months following the Separation. These services include, but are not limited to, information technology, accounts receivable, accounts payable, payroll and other financial and administrative services and functions. The Company entered into a number of commercial and other arrangements with RRD and its subsidiaries. These include, among other things, arrangements for the provision of services, including global outsourcing and logistics services, printing and binding, digital printing, composition and access to technology. The terms of the arrangements with RRD do not exceed 36 months. See discussion in Liquidity related to the Company's debt obligations. Liquidity Cash and cash equivalents of $12.1 million at March 31, 2018 included $3.5 million in the U.S. and $8.6 million at international locations. The Company has not recognized deferred tax liabilities related to taxes on foreign earnings as foreign earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. As a result of the transition tax that the Company will incur pursuant to the Tax Act , the Company now has the ability to repatriate to the U.S. parent the foreign cash associated with the foreign earnings subject to the transition tax, as these earnings have already been subject to U.S. federal taxes. The Company is currently analyzing its global working capital and cash requirements in order to determine the amount of excess cash at its foreign subsidiaries that can be repatriated to the U.S. with minimal additional taxes, but has not yet determined whether the Company plans to change its assertion of indefinite reinvestment on all foreign earnings and other outside basis differences. Management regularly evaluates whether foreign earnings are expected to be indefinitely reinvested. This evaluation requires judgment about the future operating and liquidity needs of the Company and its foreign subsidiaries. Changes in economic and business conditions, foreign or U.S. tax laws, or the Companys financial situation could result in changes to these judgments and the need to record additional tax liabilities. 41 On October 2, 2017, the Company repriced the Term Loan Credit Facility. As a result, the interest rate was reduced by 100 basis points to LIBOR plus 3.0% and the LIBOR floor was reduced by 25 basis points to 0.75%. Additionally, under the amended Credit Agreement, principal payments are due on a quarterly basis. Other terms, including the outstanding principal, maturity date, and debt covenants such as the minimum interest coverage ratio and the maximum leverage ratio are consistent with the original Credit Agreement . On June 21, 2017, RRD completed the sale of approximately 6.1 million shares of the Companys common stock in an underwritten public offering. RRD retained approximately 0.1 million shares of the Companys common stock upon consummation of the offering which were subsequently sold by RRD on August 4, 2017. In conjunction with the underwritten public offering, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase approximately 0.9 million Option Shares. The Company received approximately $18.8 million in net proceeds from the sale of the Option Shares, after deducting estimated underwriting discounts and commissions. The proceeds were used to reduce outstanding debt under the Revolving Facility. The Companys debt maturity schedule as of March 31, 2018 is shown in the table below: Debt Maturity Schedule Total 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Thereafter Notes (a) $ 300.0 $ $ $ $ $ $ 300.0 Borrowings under the Term Loan Credit Facility (b) 170.0 2.5 10.0 10.0 147.5 Borrowings under the Revolving Facility 20.0 20.0 Total $ 490.0 $ $ $ 2.5 $ 30.0 $ 10.0 $ 447.5 (a) Excludes unamortized debt issuance costs of $5.5 million which do not represent contractual commitments with a fixed amount or maturity date. (b) Excludes unamortized debt issuance costs of $4.4 million and a discount of $1.3 million which do not represent contractual commitments with a fixed amount or maturity date. The Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants, including, but not limited to, a minimum Interest Coverage Ratio and the Consolidated Leverage Ratio, as defined in and calculated pursuant to the Credit Agreement, that, in part, restrict the Companys ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, engage in mergers and consolidations, make restricted payments and dispose of certain assets. The Credit Agreement generally allows annual dividend payments of up to $15.0 million in aggregate, though additional dividends may be allowed subject to certain conditions. Each of these covenants is subject to important exceptions and qualifications. The indenture governing the Notes contains certain covenants applicable to the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, including limitations on: (1) liens; (2) indebtedness; (3) mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; (4) sales, transfers and other dispositions of assets; (5) loans and other investments; (6) dividends and other distributions, stock repurchases and redemptions and other restricted payments; (7) restrictions affecting subsidiaries; (8) transactions with affiliates; and (9) designations of unrestricted subsidiaries. Each of these covenants is subject to important exceptions and qualifications. 42 As of March 31, 2018, there was $20.0 million of outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility. Based on the Companys results of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and existing debt, the Company would have had the ability to utilize $199.8 million of the $300.0 million Revolving Facility and not have been in violation of the terms of the agreement. The current availability under the Revolving Facility and net available liquidity as of March 31, 2018 is shown in the table below: March 31, 2018 Availability (in millions) Revolving Facility $ 300.0 Availability reduction from covenants 80.2 $ 219.8 Usage Borrowings under the Revolving Facility 20.0 Impact on availability related to outstanding letters of credit $ 20.0 Current availability at March 31, 2018 $ 199.8 Cash 12.1 Net Available Liquidity $ 211.9 The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of March 31, 2018, and expects to remain in compliance based on managements estimates of operating and financial results for 2018 and the foreseeable future. However, declines in market and economic conditions or demand for certain of the Companys products and services could impact the Companys ability to remain in compliance with its debt covenants in future periods. As of March 31, 2018, the Company met all the conditions required to borrow under the Credit Agreement and management expects the Company to continue to meet the applicable borrowing conditions. The failure of a financial institution supporting the Revolving Facility would reduce the size of the Companys committed facility unless a replacement institution was added. As of March 31, 2018, the Revolving Facility is supported by seventeen U.S. and international financial institutions. As of March 31, 2018, the Company had $4.5 million in outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees, of which none reduced the availability under the Revolving Facility. Debt Issuances The Companys 8.250% Senior Notes (the Notes) were issued pursuant to an indenture where certain wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of the Company guarantee the Notes (the Guarantors). In connection with the offering of the Notes, the Company entered into a registration rights agreement, dated as of September 30, 2016 (the Registration Rights Agreement), pursuant to which the Company agreed to file a registration statement with the SEC with respect to an offer to exchange the Notes for registered notes. On March 10, 2017, the Company filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 (as amended, the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) to offer to exchange the Notes for registered notes which have terms identical in all material respects to the Notes except that the registered notes are not subject to transfer restrictions or registration rights. The Exchange Offer Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on March 22, 2017. An exchange offer for the Notes was launched on March 22, 2017 and settled on April 25, 2017, resulting in the exchange of $299.9 million aggregate principal amount of outstanding Notes for registered notes. Risk Management The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its variable debt. At March 31, 2018, the Companys exposure to rate fluctuations on variable-interest borrowings was $190.0 million. The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income or expense and cash flows. A hypothetical 10% change in yield would change the fair values of fixed-rate debt at March 31, 2018 by approximately $11.1 million, or 3.7%. 43 The Company is exposed to the impact of foreign currency fluctuations in certain countries in which it operates. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in many countries because the operating revenues and expenses of its various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent that borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the subsidiary, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange spot and forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. OTHER INFORMATION Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies , to the Unaudited Condensed and Consolidated Financial Statements. New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards Recently issued accounting standards and their estimated effect on the Companys consolidated financial statements are described in Note 17, New Accounting Pronouncements , to the Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The Company has made forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q within the meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 that are subject to risks and uncertainties. These statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the Company. Generally, forward-looking statements include information concerning possible or assumed future actions, events, or results of operations of the Company. These statements may include words such as anticipates, estimates, expects, projects, forecasts, intends, plans, continues, believes, may, will, goals and variations of such words and similar expressions are intended to identify our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to a number of important factors, including those factors discussed in detail in Item 1A: Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any such forward-looking statements. These factors include, but are not limited to: the volatility of the global economy and financial markets, and its impact on transactional volume; failure to offer high quality customer support and services; the retention of existing, and continued attraction of additional clients and key employees; the growth of new technologies with which we may be able to adequately compete; our inability to maintain client referrals; vulnerability to adverse events as a result of becoming a stand-alone company following the Separation from RRD, including the inability to obtain as favorable of terms from third-party vendors; the competitive market for our products and industry fragmentation affecting our prices; the ability to gain client acceptance of our new products and technologies; delay in market acceptance of our products and services due to undetected errors or failures found in our products and services; failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our systems, software and solutions; failure to properly use and protect client and employee information and data; the effect of a material breach of security or other performance issues of any of our or our vendors systems; factors that affect client demand, including changes in economic conditions, national or international regulations and clients budgetary constraints; 44 our ability to access debt and the capital markets due to adverse credit market conditions; the effect of increasing costs of providing healthcare and other benefits to our employees; the impact of the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act; changes in the availability or costs of key materials (such as ink and paper) or in prices received for the sale of by-products; failure to protect our proprietary technology; failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses into our business; availability to maintain our brands and reputation; the retention of existing, and continued attraction of, key employees, including management; the effects of operating in international markets, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates; the effect of economic and political conditions on a regional, national or international basis; lack of market for our common stock; lack of history as an operating company and costs associated with being an independent company; failure to achieve certain intended benefits of the Separation; and failure of RRD or LSC to satisfy their respective obligations under transition services agreements or other agreements entered into in connection with the Separation. Because forward-looking statements are subject to assumptions and uncertainties, actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Undue reliance should not be placed on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this document or the date of any document that may be incorporated by reference into this document. Consequently, readers of the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q should consider these forward looking statements only as the Companys current plans, estimates and beliefs. The Company does not undertake and specifically declines any obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect future events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q to reflect any new events or any change in conditions or circumstances.