Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of OperationsCOVID-19 for additional information. 9 Government Regulation and Regulatory Impact The SEC is adopting new as well as amending existing rules and forms to modernize the reporting and disclosure of information by registered investment companies. These changes are driving significant regulatory changes which impact the Companys customers within its Investment Companies business. On June 5, 2018, the SEC adopted Rule 30e-3 which provides certain registered investment companies with an option to electronically deliver stockholder reports and other materials rather than providing such reports in paper. Investors who prefer to receive reports in paper will continue to receive them in that format. While Rule 30e-3 was effective January 1, 2019, default electronic distribution pursuant to the rule began on January 1, 2021 due to a 24-month transition period, during which registered investment companies notified investors of the upcoming change in transmission format of stockholder reports. As a result of Rule 30e-3, the Company experienced a significant decline in the volume of printed annual and semi-annual stockholder reports in 2021 and an increase in revenue from ArcDigital software solutions. This trend is expected to continue during 2022. On March 11, 2020, the SEC announced that it has adopted a new rule 498A under the Securities Act and related regulatory amendments permitting variable annuity and variable life insurance contracts to use a more concise summary prospectus to provide disclosures to investors. More detailed information about the variable annuity or variable life insurance contract will be available online, and an investor must opt in to have that information delivered in paper. The new rule and related form amendments became effective on July 1, 2020 with compliance required by January 1, 2022. As a result of Rule 498A, the Company experienced a significant decline in printed prospectus volume in 2021 and an increase in revenue from the ArcPro and ArcDigital software solutions. This trend is expected to continue during 2022. It is the Companys policy to conduct its global operations in accordance with all applicable laws, regulations and other requirements. It is not possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding environmental matters, particularly remediation and other compliance efforts that the Company may undertake in the future. However, in the opinion of management, compliance with the present environmental protection laws, before taking into account estimated recoveries from third parties, will not have a material adverse effect on the Companys consolidated annual results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Resources The primary raw materials used in the Companys printed products are paper and ink. Paper and ink are sourced from a small set of select suppliers to ensure consistent quality and provide for continuity of supply. The global supply chain challenges as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic made it more difficult to source paper in the second half of 2021, and the Company anticipates it will continue to be more difficult and more expensive to source paper in 2022. The increased cost of paper is typically recovered by increased pricing. The Company believes that the risk of incurring material losses as a result of a shortage in raw materials is unlikely as the Company has strategically reduced its print and distribution revenue and downsized the Company's print production platform and that the losses, if any, would not have a materially negative impact on the Companys business. Distribution The Companys products are distributed to end-users through the U.S or foreign postal services, through retail channels, electronically or by direct shipment to customer facilities. Customers For each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, no customer accounted for 10% or more of the Companys net sales. 10 Cybersecurity and Data Protection A core aspect of the Companys business relies on technology and software; as a result, the security of those technologies and software, as well as the protection of the confidential information entrusted to the Company by its customers, are key components of the Companys business and strategy. The DFIN Cybersecurity Program is based upon industry leading frameworks, which include International Standardization Organization #27001 (ISO 27001), Control Objectives for Information Technology (COBIT), and the National Institute of Standards and Technology Framework for Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity (commonly known as NIST). The Companys technologies and software must also comply with domestic and international regulatory and legal requirements. Ensuring that these technologies and software comply with those regulations is a key focus of the Companys efforts. The Company leverages cybersecurity technologies designed to provide for the security of client, employee and business confidential data. The Companys cybersecurity portfolio is inclusive of, but not limited to, data encryption, data masking, leading secure software development methodologies, application and network penetration testing, incident response, digital forensics, least-privileged access controls, anti-malware, end-point detection and response, virtual private networks and cyber threat intelligence. Additionally, the Company manages a 24x7 Security Operations capability that monitors and responds to cyber threats in real time. To demonstrate transparency, the Companys commitment to effective cybersecurity and data protection efforts and in pursuit of continuous improvement, the Company undergoes a series of third-party security reviews, including third-party penetration tests. Human Capital The Companys human capital objective is to attract, retain and develop the talent needed to deliver on the Companys strategic priorities. DFIN strives to get the best talent available, help them grow their career and keep them engaged and motivated with rewards based on their contributions and performance. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had approximately 2,185 employees, approximately 80% of whom are located in the United States and approximately 20% in international locations. DFINs workforce is approximately 40% female and 60% male, with an average tenure of approximately 13.2 years with DFIN (including periods prior to the separation from RRD). The Company also hires temporary employees in its manufacturing facilities during peak periods of production. None of the Companys employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The Company's U.S. employee voluntary turnover rate is under 8.5% per year. The Company recently launched its "My Total Wellbeing" strategy that provides greater market-driven and predictable pay and benefit programs. My Total Wellbeing encompasses: My Time DFIN evaluates its "time off" policies to address the diverse and changing needs of the workforce. DFIN offers every employee at least four weeks of paid time off, including paid sick time. Additionally, in 2021, the Company increased its paid parental leave from four to six weeks for both moms and dads. In 2021, the Company implemented a flexible model that allows employees the option to continue to work from home, with the exception of essential employees whose roles require them to be on site. The Company maintains office space available for team meetings, collaboration and other critical in-person events. My Career DFIN is committed to helping employees grow their skills and capabilities. To facilitate that goal, in 2021, the Company launched a new career framework for U.S. employees that helps them make informed choices about their skill development and career growth. The career framework includes a "Career Map" that shows every role in the Company by level. This helps employees understand how their job fits into the overall structure and shows the various pathways for advancement. My Health DFIN offers comprehensive health and benefits including medical insurance, prescription drug benefits, dental insurance and vision insurance. The Company's programs focus on physical health, emotional/mental health and encourages all employees to take ownership of their wellbeing. Program highlights include topical webinars, targeted programs (e.g., tobacco cessation, diabetes management and weight management) and employee assistance programs. 11 My Money DFIN offers competitive base salaries and a variety of compensation programs to reward performance relative to key strategic and financial metrics. The Company also cultivates a "pay for performance" culture in which when the Company does well, the Company shares those rewards with employees. Based on the Company's strong fiscal year 2020 results, in March 2021, the Company paid a performance bonus to all employees who were not eligible for another variable compensation program. DFIN also announced that beginning in 2022, there will be a 401(k) match of 50 cents for every dollar an employee contributes up to 6% of eligible compensation and the Company has the ability to contribute a discretionary match that would apply to employee contributions, based on the Company's performance, as determined by the Company. Other financially focused benefits available include accident and critical illness insurance, life and disability insurance, health savings account (which includes a company contribution), flexible spending accounts and a group legal services plan. Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Creating an inclusive community in which all voices are heard is key to the Company's success. In 2021, DFIN launched a DEI Council comprised of individuals with various backgrounds and experience across the organization, with a mission "to be a strategic resource to DFIN leadership to help keep a sustained focus on DEI. We aspire to foster a culture where all employees feel valued, respected and heard. Inclusivity will enable DFIN to attract and retain the very best talent." The pillars of education and awareness, advocacy and support and fairness and equality will continue to guide the actions that are aligned to the Company's goals and support fostering an inclusive environment. In 2021, the Company introduced voluntary self-identification for gender identity and sexual orientation. DFIN has made progress in bringing more diverse perspectives to leadership. Since the beginning of 2021, approximately 59% of all U.S. hires and promotions at the manager level and above have been women or people of color. Women or people of color constitute approximately 25% and 13% of the Companys Board of Directors, respectively. In 2021, approximately 36% of DFINs U.S. employees in managerial roles were women and approximately 24% of its U.S. employees in managerial roles were people of color. The Company is committed to paying its employees in a fair and equitable way. In 2021, the Company retained a compensation consultant to review its pay structures against market practices. Additionally, DFIN has a rigorous internal compensation review process. The Company is also committed to increasing gender and racial diversity at all levels of the Company through recruiting, training and promotion opportunities, especially at the management level. In 2022, a portion of executive performance incentive pay will be tied to achieving that objective. Training and Development DFIN invests in its employees skills and professional development by offering virtual, social and self-directed learning, mentoring, coaching and career development opportunities. In 2021, approximately 55% of employees engaged in self-directed learning and development activities through the Company's on-demand learning platform. DFIN provides its employees with curated and targeted learning pathways for leadership, finance, and technical roles as well as safety, compliance and equipment-related training. DFIN continues to focus on leadership development and piloted cohort leadership development programs aligned to the Company's values and leadership behaviors. In addition to personal training and development, the Company requires employees to complete a series of mandatory courses in data protection, principles of ethical business conduct, harassment awareness and anti-corruption. In 2021, the Company achieved more than 99% completion of these required courses. Employee Experience and Retention DFIN gains insight into what matters to its employees, what motivates them and how best to reach them by regularly surveying employees on culture, from wellbeing to career development. In a 2021 survey sponsored by the newly created DEI Council to gauge employee sentiment, a majority of employees who responded said they feel comfortable being their authentic, whole selves at work, and that DFIN cultivates a culture where people of all background are welcome and valued. The Company consistently tracked whether employees felt treated with dignity and respect and whether employees felt proud to work at DFIN. Over three separate surveys in 2021, employees consistently reported that they "almost always" felt treated with dignity and respect by their managers and leaders and "almost always" felt proud to work at DFIN. The Company conducts town hall meetings, quarterly all-employee calls and frequent internal communications. In 2021, DFIN also implemented a social recognition platform to cultivate a culture of recognition and appreciation, while bringing connectivity to the employees in a virtual environment. 12 Health and Safety The health, safety and well-being of its employees is DFINs highest priority and a core element of its culture and the Company believes everyone contributes to a safe and healthy work environment no matter their role in the organization. DFINs Environmental, Health and Safety Management System aligns with ISO 14001 and 45001. The Company sets annual leading and lagging indicators to improve its sustainability performance and in 2021 achieved a workforce total recordable incident rate of 0.32 (per 200,000 hours worked). The Companys manufacturing employees participate in robust safety committees and quarterly roundtables to share best practices transparently and conduct a Speak Up for Safety employee recognition program for identifying near misses. In 2021, the manufacturing workforce achieved a 99% completion rate for job-specific safety training. DFIN also observes Safety Month globally each June and in 2021 focused on COVID-19 vaccination benefits, cyber safety, ergonomics and emotional health. Results from the annual Safety Monthly Survey showed that 84% of employees who responded believe their safety, health and well-being is a priority at DFIN. Finally, in November 2021, 57 employees were nominated for a Safety Pinnacle Award. These awards recognize the best-in-class contributions of employees from across the Company who foster a culture of safety, health and well-being in the workplace. As the pandemic persists, the Company continues to focus on safety and health, especially among its manufacturing employees who continue work onsite. DFIN implemented a company-wide COVID-19 Protocol for reporting suspected and/or positive cases, contact tracing, communications and employee testing to help prevent workplace exposure. Climate In 2021, the Company sourced 100% of the electricity used by its print manufacturing facilities from the purchase of renewable energy credits. The Corporate Responsibility and Governance Committee has broad oversight of environmental, social and governance issues, which includes climate-related risks and opportunities. Due to the nature of the business, DFIN does not anticipate any material impact from climate-related regulations. Available Information The Company maintains a website at www.dfinsolutions.com where the Companys Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all amendments to those reports, as well as other SEC filings, are available without charge, as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. The Principles of Corporate Governance of the Companys Board of Directors, the charters of the Audit, Compensation, Corporate Responsibility & Governance Committees of the Board of Directors and the Companys Principles of Ethical Business Conduct are also available on the Investor Relations portion of the Companys website, and will be provided, free of charge, to any stockholder who requests a copy. References to the Companys website address do not constitute incorporation by reference of the information contained on the website, and the information contained on the website is not part of or incorporated by reference in this document. 13 ITEM 1A. R ISK FACTORS The Companys consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows can be adversely affected by various risks. These risks include the principal factors listed below and the other matters set forth in the Annual Report. You should carefully consider all of these risks. COVID-19 Pandemic Risk The current COVID-19 pandemic and other global public health epidemics may materially adversely impact the Companys business, its future results of operations and its overall financial performance . The Companys business could be materially adversely affected by the risk, or the public perception of risk, related to a pandemic or widespread health crisis, such as the current COVID-19 pandemic. A significant outbreak of epidemic, pandemic, or contagious diseases in the human population resulting in a widespread health crisis that adversely affect the broader economies and financial markets will also adversely impact the overall demand environment for DFINs services and products. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on certain of the Company's customers' financial results, which has and may continue to force those clients to alter their plans for purchasing the Company's services and products. In addition, the global markets were disrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which had a temporary negative impact on the Company's transactional offerings. A resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic, including potentially new strains of COVID-19, resulting in renewal of mitigation measures, including targeted shutdowns, could lead to further economic downturns and adverse effects on the Company. A recession would adversely impact the global market for IPOs and other financial transactions, adversely affecting the demand for DFINs services and products (see the Companys risk factor captioned A significant part of the Companys business is derived from the use of DFINs services and products in connection with financial and strategic business transactions. Trends that affect the volume of these transactions may negatively impact the demand for DFINs services and products. below), and those adverse effects may be material. In addition, any preventative or protective actions that governments implement or that the Company takes in respect of a global health crises such as COVID-19, such as travel or movement restrictions, quarantines or site closures, may interfere with the ability of the Companys employees and vendors to perform their respective responsibilities and obligations relative to the conduct of DFINs business. Such results could have a material adverse effect on DFINs operations, business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. For example, when both the State of New Jersey and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania enacted stay at home orders in 2020, the Company was deemed essential and continued to operate, but there can be no assurances that the operations will continue to be deemed essential both in those locations and in other jurisdictions in which the Company or its vendors operate and are allowed to remain operational. In addition, the Company uses vendors in multiple countries to fulfill the global demand for its services. When global lockdowns were ordered by many governments in March 2020, many of the Companys vendors had to rapidly transition to work from home, creating process inefficiencies. If the Company is not able to meet its clients work requirements in a timely fashion or at all, the Companys business, reputation and ability to retain clients would be adversely affected. The Company is unable to accurately predict the ultimate impact of the current COVID-19 pandemic due to various uncertainties, including the ultimate geographic spread of the virus, the severity of the virus, the presence of new strains of the virus, the duration of the outbreak, actions that may be taken by governmental authorities to contain the virus and any economic recession resulting from the pandemic. The Company closely monitors the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, continually assessing its potential effects on its business. The extent to which the Companys results are affected by COVID-19 will largely depend on future developments which cannot be accurately predicted and are uncertain, but the COVID-19 pandemic or the perception of its effects could have a material adverse effect on DFINs business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Refer to Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of OperationsCOVID-19 for additional information. 14 Technology Risks The Companys failure to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of its systems, software and solutions could seriously damage the Companys reputation and affect its ability to retain clients and attract new business. Maintaining the confidentiality, integrity and availability of DFINs systems, software and solutions is an issue of critical importance for the Company and its clients and users who rely on DFINs systems to prepare regulatory filings and store and exchange large volumes of information, much of which is proprietary, confidential and may constitute material nonpublic information. Given DFINs systems contain material nonpublic information about public reporting companies and potential mergers and acquisitions activities prior to its public release, the Company has been, and expects it will continue to be, a target of hacking or cybercrime. Inadvertent disclosure of the information maintained on DFINs systems (or on the systems of the vendors on which the Company relies) due to human error, breach of the systems through hacking, cybercrime or a leak of confidential information due to employee misconduct, could seriously damage the Companys reputation, could cause it to expend significant resources responding to requests from government agencies and customers and could cause significant reputational harm for the Company and its clients. The Companys technologies, systems, networks and software have been and continue to be subject to cybersecurity threats and attacks, which range from uncoordinated individual attempts to sophisticated and targeted measures directed at the Company. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased and the Company has in the past and may in the future be subject to security breaches. For example, during 2019 and 2020 the Company experienced two cyber incidents, one of which was through a commercial partner. The incident involving the Companys commercial partner was a result of a compromise to the partners email server, which allowed unauthorized viewing of client information on that system. The DFIN incident was, the Company believes, the result of a compromised login credential which allowed unauthorized viewing of client information on that system and access to an internal Company system. In each incident, the Company believes the unauthorized viewing of client information was limited to that system and the DFIN incident has been fully remediated with no indication of continuing unauthorized access. The Companys customers and employees have been, and will continue to be, targeted by parties using fraudulent e-mails and other communications in attempts to misappropriate login credentials, including passwords, or to introduce viruses or other malware programs to its information systems, the information systems of its vendors or third-party service providers and/or its customers' computers. Though the Company endeavors to mitigate these threats through product improvements, use of encryption and authentication technology and customer and employee education, such cyber attacks against the Company or its vendors and third-party service providers remain a serious issue. Further, to access the Companys services and products, the Companys customers use personal electronic devices that are beyond DFINs security control systems. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until executed against a target. Consistent with all software solutions, DFINs software may be vulnerable to these types of attacks. Breaches and other inappropriate access can be difficult to detect and any delay in identifying them could increase their harm. An attack of this type, such as the incident described in the preceding paragraph, could disrupt the proper functioning of the Companys software solutions, cause errors in the output of clients work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information and other undesirable or destructive outcomes. As a result of these types of risks and attacks, the Company has implemented and continuously reviews and updates systems, processes and procedures to protect against unauthorized access to or use of data and to prevent data loss. For example, the Company continues to refresh relevant security standards to reflect changes in current security threats, monitors DFIN systems for cyber threats, continues to update intrusion and detection capabilities and refreshes mandatory information security awareness training content, including awareness around phishing. However, the ever-evolving threats mean the Company and its third-party service providers and vendors must continually evaluate and adapt their respective systems and processes and overall security environment. There is no guarantee that these measures will be adequate to safeguard against all data security breaches, system compromises or misuses of data. 15 Furthermore, DFINs systems allow the Company to share information that may be confidential in nature to its clients across the Companys offices worldwide. This design allows the Company to increase global reach for its clients and increase its responsiveness to client demands, but also increases the risk of a security breach or a leak of such information as it allows additional points of access to information by increasing the number of employees and facilities working on certain jobs. In addition, DFINs systems leverage third party outsourcing arrangements, which expedites the Companys responsiveness but exposes information to additional access points. The occurrence of an actual or perceived information leak or breach of security could cause the Companys reputation to suffer, clients to stop using DFINs services and products offerings, the Company to have to respond to requests from government agencies and customers in connection with such event and the Company to face lawsuits and potential liability, any of which could cause DFINs financial performance to be negatively impacted. The Company has incurred, and expects to continue to incur, expenses to prevent, investigate and remediate security breaches and vulnerabilities, including deploying additional personnel and protection technologies, training employees and engaging third-party experts and consultants. Though the Company maintains professional liability insurance that includes coverage if a cybersecurity incident were to occur, there can be no assurance that insurance coverage will be available, responsive, or that the available coverage will be sufficient to cover losses and claims related to any cybersecurity incidents the Company may experience. A number of core processes, such as software development, sales and marketing, client service and financial transactions, rely on DFINs IT infrastructure and applications. Defects or malfunctions in the Companys IT infrastructure and applications have caused, and could cause in the future, DFINs services and products offerings not to perform as clients expect, which could negatively impact the Companys reputation and business. In addition, malicious software, sabotage, ransomware and other cybersecurity breaches of the types described above could cause an outage in DFINs infrastructure, which could lead to a substantial delay of service and ultimately downtimes, recovery costs and client claims, any of which could negatively impact the Companys results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Companys business may be adversely affected by new technologies enabling clients to produce and file documents on their own. The Companys business may be adversely affected as clients seek out opportunities to produce and file regulatory documentation on their own and begin to implement technologies that assist them in this process. For example, clients and their financial advisors have increasingly relied on web-based services which allow clients to autonomously file and distribute reports required pursuant to the Exchange Act, prospectuses and other materials as a replacement for using the Companys EDGAR filing services. If technologies are further developed to provide clients with the ability to autonomously produce and file documents to meet their regulatory obligations, and the Company does not develop products or provide services to compete with such new technologies, the Companys business may be adversely affected by those clients who choose alternative solutions, including self-serving or filing themselves. Undetected errors or failures found in DFINs services and products may result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of the services and products that could negatively impact its business. DFINs services and products may contain undetected errors or scalability limitations during their life cycle, but particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released to the market. The Company releases enhanced versions of products including platforms during various stages of development. Despite production testing by the Company and operational testing by current and potential clients, errors may not be found in new services and products until after commencement of commercial availability or use, resulting in a loss of or a delay in market acceptance, damage to the Companys reputation, client dissatisfaction and decline in net sales and operating income. 16 Some of DFINs systems and services are developed by third parties or supported by third party hardware and software. The Companys business and reputation could suffer if these third party systems and services fail to perform properly or are no longer available to the Company. Some of DFINs systems and services are developed by third parties or rely on hardware purchased or leased and software licensed from third parties. These systems and services, or the hardware and software required to run the Companys existing systems and services, may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this hardware or software could result in delays in the provisioning of DFINs services, which could negatively affect the Companys business until equivalent technology is either developed by the Company or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated. In addition, it is possible that the Companys hardware vendors or the licensors of third party software could increase their prices, which could have an adverse impact on DFINs business, operating results and financial condition. Further, changing hardware vendors or software licensors could detract from managements ability to focus on the ongoing operations of the Companys business or could cause delays in the operations of the business. Additionally, third party software underlying DFINs services can contain undetected errors or bugs, or be susceptible to cybersecurity breaches described above. The Company may be forced to delay commercial release of its services until any discovered problems are corrected and, in some cases, may need to implement enhancements or modifications to correct errors that the Company does not detect until after deployment of its services. If the Company is unable to protect its proprietary technology and other rights, the value of DFINs business and its competitive position may be impaired. If the Company is unable to protect its intellectual property, the Companys competitors could use its intellectual property to market services and products similar to DFINs, which could decrease demand for its services. The Company relies on a combination of patents, trademarks, licensing and other proprietary rights laws, as well as third party nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures, to protect its intellectual property rights. These protections may not be adequate to prevent competitors from copying or reverse-engineering DFINs technology and services to create similar offerings. Additionally, any of DFINs pending or future patent applications may not be issued with the scope of protection the Company seeks, if at all. The scope of patent protection, if any, the Company may obtain is difficult to predict and the patents may be found invalid, unenforceable or of insufficient scope to prevent competitors from offering similar services. DFINs competitors may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to the Companys technology. To protect DFINs proprietary information, the Company requires employees, consultants, advisors, independent contractors and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements and maintain policies and procedures to limit access to the Companys trade secrets and proprietary information. These agreements and the other actions may not provide meaningful protection for DFINs proprietary information or know-how from unauthorized use, misappropriation or disclosure. Further, existing patent laws may not provide adequate or meaningful protection in the event competitors independently develop technology, products or services similar to DFINs. Even if the laws governing intellectual property rights provide protection, the Company may have insufficient resources to take the legal actions necessary to protect its interests. In addition, DFINs intellectual property rights and interests may not be afforded the same protection under the laws of foreign countries as they are under the laws of the United States. 17 Business, Economic, Market and Operating Risks A significant part of the Companys business is derived from the use of DFINs services and products in connection with financial and strategic business transactions. Trends that affect the volume of these transactions may negatively impact the demand for DFINs services and products. A significant portion of the Companys net sales depends on the purchase of DFINs services and products by parties involved in capital markets compliance and transactions. As a result, the Companys business is largely dependent on the global market for IPOs, secondary offerings, mergers and acquisitions, public and private debt offerings, leveraged buyouts, spinouts, bankruptcy and claims processing and other transactions. These transactions are often tied to market conditions and the resulting volume of these types of transactions affects demand for the Companys services and products. Downturns in the financial markets, global economy or in the economies of the geographies in which the Company does business and reduced equity valuations create risks that could negatively impact the Companys business. For example, in the past, economic volatility has led to a decline in the financial condition of a number of the Companys clients and led to the postponement of their capital markets transactions. To the extent that there is continued volatility, the Company may face increasing volume pressure. Furthermore, the Companys offerings for investment companies clients can be affected by fluctuations in the inflow and outflow of money into investment management funds which determines the number of new funds that are opened and closed. As a result, the Company is unable to predict the impact of any potential worsening of macroeconomic conditions which could have impacts to the Companys results of operations. The level of activity in the financial communications services industry, including the financial transactions and related compliance needs DFINs services and products are used to support, is sensitive to many factors beyond the Companys control, including interest rates, regulatory policies, general economic conditions, the Companys clients competitive environments, business trends, terrorism and political change. In addition, a weak economy could hinder the Companys ability to collect amounts owed by clients. Failure of the Companys clients to pay the amounts owed or to pay such amounts in a timely manner, may increase the Companys exposure to credit risks and result in bad debt write-offs. Unfavorable conditions or changes in any of these factors could negatively impact the Companys business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The highly competitive market for DFINs services and products and industry fragmentation may continue to create adverse price pressures. The financial communications services industry is highly competitive with relatively low barriers to entry and the industry remains highly fragmented in North America and internationally. Management expects that competition will increase from existing competitors, as well as new and emerging entrants. Additionally, as the Company expands its services and products offerings, it may face competition from new and existing competitors. As a result, competition may lead to additional pricing pressure on DFINs services and products, which could negatively impact its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The quality of the Companys customer support and services offerings is important to the Companys clients, and if the Company fails to offer high quality customer support and services, clients may not use DFINs solutions resulting in a potential decline in net sales. A high level of customer support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of DFINs solutions. If the Company is unable to provide a level of customer support and service to meet or exceed clients expectations, the Company could experience a loss of clients and market share, a failure to attract new clients, including in new geographic regions, and increased service and support costs and a diversion of resources. Any of these results could negatively impact the Companys business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 18 A substantial part of the Companys business depends on clients continuing their use of DFINs services and products. Any decline in the Companys client retention would harm the Companys future operating results. The Company does not have long-term contracts with most of capital markets and some investment companies clients and, therefore, relies on their continued use of DFINs services and products, particularly for compliance-related services. As a result, client retention, particularly during periods of declining transactional volume, is an important part of the Companys strategic business plan. There can be no assurance that clients will continue to use DFINs services and products to meet their ongoing needs, particularly in the face of competitors services and products offerings. Client retention rates may decline due to a variety of factors, including: the Companys inability to demonstrate to clients the value of its solutions; the price, performance and functionality of DFINs solutions; the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing services and products; clients ceasing to use or anticipating a declining need for the Companys services in their operations; consolidation in the Companys client base; the effects of economic downturns and global economic conditions; technology and application failures and outages, interruption of service, security breaches or fraud, which could adversely affect the Companys reputation and the Companys relations with its clients; or reductions in clients spending levels. If the Companys retention rates are lower than anticipated or decline for any reason, the Companys net sales may decrease and the Companys profitability may be harmed, which could negatively impact the Companys business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The Companys performance and growth depend on its ability to generate client referrals and to develop referenceable client relationships that will enhance the Companys sales and marketing efforts. The Company depends on users of its solutions to generate client referrals for the Companys services. The Company depends, in part, on the financial institutions, law firms and other third parties who use DFINs services and products to recommend solutions to their client base, which provides the Company the opportunity to reach a larger client base than it can reach through the direct sales and internal marketing efforts. For instance, a portion of the Companys net sales from capital markets clients is generated through referrals by investment banks, financial advisors and law firms that have utilized the Companys services in connection with prior transactions. These referrals are an important source of new clients for the Companys services. A decline in the number of referrals could require the Company to devote substantially more resources to the sales and marketing of its services, which would increase costs, potentially lead to a decline in net sales, slow the Companys growth and negatively impact its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 19 A failure to adapt to technological changes to address the changing demands of clients may adversely impact the Companys business, and if the Company fails to successfully develop, introduce or integrate new services or enhancements to its services and products platforms, systems or applications, DFINs reputation, net sales and operating income may suffer. In May 2018, management introduced the Companys new business plan that focuses on transitioning its business to a software and technology focused company. In order to do that, the Company must attract new clients for those businesses, and its ability to attract new clients and increase sales to existing clients will depend in large part on the Companys ability to enhance and improve existing services and products platforms, including application solutions, and to introduce new functionality either by acquisition or internal development. As further described in Item 1. BusinessCompany History , in 2018, the Company sold its Language Solutions business and acquired eBrevia. In the first quarter of 2020, management realigned the Companys operating segments to enable management to have greater visibility into the performance of the Companys software solutions and compliance and communications management operating segments. The Companys software solutions net sales increased from 18.5% of total net sales in 2018 to 27.2% of total net sales in 2021, while the Companys tech-enabled services net sales increased from 45.7% of total net sales in 2018 to 52.3% of total net sales in 2021 and print and distribution net sales as a percentage of total net sales has declined from 35.8% in 2018 to 20.5% in 2021. In 2020, the Company undertook significant restructuring of its compliance and communications management operating segments due partially to regulatory changes that significantly reduced print volumes starting in 2021. The Company continues to invest a significant portion of its capital expenditures budget on software development, including the development of software solutions for both investment companies and capital markets, most recently with the launch of new cloud-based ActiveDisclosure in early 2021. In December 2021, the Company completed an acquisition of Guardum in order to enhance Venue capabilities. The Companys operating results would suffer if its innovations are not responsive to the needs of the Companys clients, are not appropriately timed with market opportunities or are not brought to market effectively. In addition, it is possible that managements assumptions about the features that they believe will drive purchasing decisions for the Companys potential clients or renewal decisions for the existing clients could be inaccurate. There can be no assurance that new products or services, or upgrades to DFINs products or services, will be released as anticipated or that, when released, they will not contain defects. If product defects arise, the Company could experience negative publicity, damage to its reputation, decline in net sales, delay in market acceptance or claims by clients brought against the Company. Moreover, upgrades and enhancements to the Companys platforms may require substantial capital investment without assurance that the upgrades and enhancements will enable the Company to achieve or sustain a competitive advantage in the services and products offerings. If the Company is unable to license or acquire new technology solutions to enhance existing services and products offerings, the results of operations, financial position and cash flows may be negatively impacted. Fluctuations in the costs and availability of paper and other raw materials may adversely impact the Company. Global supply chain challenges leading to decreased availability of paper and other raw materials and the costs of these resources due to sourcing difficulties or otherwise have increased and are expected to continue to increase DFINs costs. The Company may not be able to pass these costs on to clients through higher prices. Moreover, rising raw materials costs, and any consequent impact on pricing, could lead to a decrease in demand for DFINs services and products. DFINs business is dependent upon brand recognition and reputation, and the failure to maintain or enhance the Companys brand or reputation would likely have an adverse effect on its business. DFINs brand recognition and reputation are important aspects of the Companys business. Maintaining and further enhancing DFINs brands and reputation will be important to retaining and attracting clients for DFINs products. The Company also believes that the importance of DFINs brand recognition and reputation for products will continue to increase as competition in the market for DFINs products and industry continues to increase. The Companys success in this area will be dependent on a wide range of factors, some of which are beyond the Companys control, including the efficacy of the Companys marketing efforts, its ability to retain existing and obtain new clients and strategic partners, human error, the quality and perceived value of DFINs services and products offerings, actions of the Companys competitors and positive or negative publicity. Damage to the Companys reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for DFINs services and products offerings and negatively impact its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 20 The Company may be unable to hire and retain talented employees, including management. DFINs success depends, in part, on its general ability to attract, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled employees. The loss of a significant number of employees or the inability to attract, hire, develop, train and retain additional skilled personnel could have a serious negative effect on DFINs business. Management believes the Companys ability to retain its client base and to attract new clients is directly related to DFINs sales force and client service personnel, and if the Company cannot retain these key employees, its business could suffer. In addition, many members of DFINs management have significant industry experience that is valuable to competitors. The Company expects that its executive officers will have non-solicitation agreements contractually prohibiting them from soliciting clients and employees within a specified period of time after they leave DFIN. If one or more members of the senior management team leave and cannot be replaced with a suitable candidate quickly, the Company could experience difficulty in managing its business properly, which could negatively impact its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. There are risks associated with operations outside the United States. The Company has operations outside the United States. DFIN works with capital markets clients around the world, and in 2021 the Companys international sales accounted for approximately 13.8% of DFINs net sales. The Companys operations outside of the United States are primarily focused in Europe, Asia and Canada. As a result, the Company is subject to the risks inherent in conducting business outside the United States, including: costs of customizing services and products for foreign countries; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; increased infrastructure costs including legal, tax, accounting and information technology; reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; potentially greater difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, including currency conversion and cash repatriation from foreign jurisdictions; increased licenses, tariffs and other trade barriers; potentially adverse tax consequences; increased burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws, including employment-related laws, which may be more stringent than U.S. laws; unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; political and economic instability; and compliance with applicable anti-corruption and sanction laws and regulations. The Company cannot be sure that its investments or operations in other countries will produce desired levels of net sales or that one or more of the factors listed above will not affect the Companys global business. The Companys reliance on strategic partnerships as part of its business strategy may adversely affect the development of DFINs business in those areas. The Companys business strategy includes pursuing and maintaining strategic partnerships, such as the Companys commercial agreement with Mediant, in order to facilitate its entry into adjacent lines of business. This approach may expose the Company to risk of conflict with its strategic arrangement partners and divert management resources to oversee these partnership arrangements. Further, as these arrangements require cooperation with third party partners, these strategic arrangements may not be able to make decisions as quickly as DFIN would if it was operating on its own or may take actions that are different from what the Company would do on a standalone basis in light of the need to consider DFIN partners interests. As a result, the Company may be less able to respond timely to changes in market dynamics, which could have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 21 The Company has in the past acquired and may in the future acquire other businesses, and it may be unable to successfully integrate the operations of these businesses and may not achieve the cost savings and increased net sales anticipated as a result of these acquisitions. Achieving the anticipated benefits of acquisitions will depend in part upon DFINs ability to integrate these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. The integration of companies that have previously operated independently may result in significant challenges, and the Company may be unable to accomplish the integration smoothly or successfully. In particular, the coordination of geographically dispersed organizations with differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies may increase the difficulties of integration. The integration of acquired businesses may also require the dedication of significant management resources, which may temporarily distract managements attention from the day-to-day operations of the Company. In addition, the process of integrating operations may cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of the Companys businesses and the loss of key personnel from the Company or the acquired businesses. Further, employee uncertainty and lack of focus during the integration process may disrupt the businesses of the Company or the acquired businesses. Financial Risks The Companys indebtedness may adversely affect the Companys business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $125.0 million outstanding under its Term Loan A Facility, as defined below, and did not have any amounts outstanding under its Revolving Facility, as defined below. The Companys ability to make payments on and to refinance indebtedness, as well as any future debt that it may incur, will depend on the Companys ability to generate cash in the future from operations, financings or asset sales. The Companys ability to generate cash is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond the Companys control. The Company may not generate sufficient funds to service its debt and meet its business needs, such as funding working capital or the expansion of the Companys operations. If the Company is not able to repay or refinance debt as it becomes due, it may be forced to take disadvantageous actions, including facility closure, staff reductions, reducing financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures and general corporate purposes, selling assets or dedicating an unsustainable level of cash flows from operations to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, and restricting future capital return to stockholders. The lenders who hold the Companys debt could also accelerate amounts due in the event of a default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of the Companys debt. In addition, the Companys competitors who may be less leveraged, could put the Company at a competitive disadvantage. These competitors could have greater financial flexibility to pursue strategic acquisitions, secure additional financing and may better withstand downturns in the Companys industry or the economy in general. The agreements and instruments that govern the Companys debt impose restrictions that may limit the Companys operating and financial flexibility. On May 27, 2021, the Company amended and restated its credit agreement dated as of September 30, 2016 (as in effect prior to such amendment and restatement, the "Credit Agreement," and the Credit agreement, as so amended and restated, the "Amended and Restated Credit Agreement"), by and among the Company, the lenders party thereto from time to time and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent and collateral agent, to, among other things, provide for a $200.0 million delayed-draw term loan A facility (the "Term Loan A Facility"), extend the maturity of the $300.0 million revolving facility (the "Revolving Facility," and, together with the Term Loan A Facility, the "Credit Facilities") to May 27, 2026 and modify the financial maintenance and negative covenants in the Credit Agreement. On October 14, 2021, the Company drew $200.0 million from the Term Loan A Facility and used the proceeds to redeem the Company's senior notes due October 15, 2024. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement that governs the Companys Credit Facilities contain a number of significant restrictions and covenants that limit the Companys ability to: incur additional debt; pay dividends, make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans and investments; sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of assets; 22 incur or permit to exist certain liens; enter into certain types of transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting the Companys subsidiaries ability to pay dividends; and consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of the Companys assets. These covenants can have the effect of limiting the Companys flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in the Companys business and the markets in which it competes. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement that governs the Credit Facilities requires the Company to comply with certain financial maintenance covenants. Operating results below current levels or other adverse factors, including a significant increase in interest rates, could result in the Company being unable to comply with the financial covenants contained in the Term Loan A Facility. If the Company violates covenants under the Credit Facilities and is unable to obtain a waiver from the lenders, the Companys debt under the Credit Facilities would be in default and could be accelerated by the Companys lenders. If the Companys debt is accelerated, the Company may not be able to repay its debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if the Company is able to obtain new financing, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms, on terms that are acceptable, or at all. If the Companys debt is in default for any reason, the Companys business and results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, complying with these covenants may also cause the Company to take actions that may make it more difficult for the Company to successfully execute its business strategy and compete against companies that are not subject to such restrictions. Despite the Companys current level of indebtedness, it may be able to incur significantly more debt. Despite the Companys current level of indebtedness, the Company may be able to incur significant additional debt, including secured debt, in the future. Although the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement governing the Credit Facilities restrict the incurrence of additional debt, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Also, these restrictions do not prevent the Company from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, the Company had $297.8 million available for additional borrowing under the Revolving Facility. The more indebtedness the Company incurs, the further exposed it becomes to the risks associated with leverage described above. Adverse credit market conditions may limit the Companys ability to obtain future financing. The Company may, from time to time, depend on access to credit markets. Uncertainty and volatility in global financial markets may cause financial markets institutions to fail or may cause lenders to hoard capital and reduce lending. As a result, DFIN may not obtain financing on terms and conditions that are favorable, or at all. The Company is exposed to risks related to potential adverse changes in currency exchange rates. The Company is exposed to market risks resulting from changes in the currency exchange rates of the currencies in the countries in which it does business. Although operating in local currencies may limit the impact of currency rate fluctuations on the operating results of non-U.S. activities, fluctuations in such rates may affect the translation of these results into DFINs financial statements. To the extent borrowings, sales, purchases, net sales and expenses or other transactions are not in the applicable local currency, the Company may enter into foreign currency spot and forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. Management cannot be sure, however, that its efforts at hedging will be successful, and such efforts could, in certain circumstances, lead to losses. 23 Legal and Regulatory Risks Modifications in the rules and regulations to which clients or potential clients are subject to may impact the demand for the Companys services and products offerings. Clients are subject to rules and regulations requiring certain printed or electronic communications governing the form, content and delivery methods of such communications, such as SEC Rule 30e-3 which provides certain registered investment companies with an option to electronically deliver stockholder reports and other materials rather than providing such reports in paper. Modifications in these regulations may impact clients business practices and could reduce demand for DFINs services and products offerings. Modifications in such regulations could eliminate the need for certain types of communications altogether or impact the quantity or format of required communications. Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues and expanding laws could impact DFINs software solutions and expose the Company to increased liability. Privacy and data security laws apply to DFINs various businesses in all jurisdictions in which the Company operates. In particular, clients use DFINs software solutions, including Venue, to share personal data and information on a confidential basis, and such sharing may be subject to privacy and data security laws. DFINs global business operates in countries that have more stringent data protection laws than those in the United States. These data protection laws may be inconsistent across jurisdictions and are subject to evolving and differing interpretations. Complying with these regulations has been, and will continue to be, costly, and there are or will be significant penalties for failure to comply with these regulations. Further, any perception of DFINs practices, products or services as a violation of individual privacy rights may subject the Company to public criticism, class action lawsuits, reputational harm, or investigations or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt DFINs business and expose the Company to liability. Transferring personal data and information across international borders is becoming increasingly complex. For example, Europe has stringent regulations regarding transfer of personal data and information. The mechanisms that DFIN and many other companies rely upon for data transfers from Europe to the United States (e.g., Privacy Shield and Model Clauses) have been successfully challenged in the European court systems and compliance with legislation related to data transfers is uncertain. The Company is closely monitoring developments related to requirements for transferring personal data and information. Privacy regulation continues to develop globally and could impact DFINs business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Benefit, Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefit Plans Risk Changes in market conditions, changes in discount rates, or lower returns on assets may increase required pension and other post-retirement benefits plans contributions in future periods. The funded status of DFINs pension and other post-retirement benefits plans is dependent upon many factors, including returns on invested assets and the level of certain interest rates. Declines in the market value of the securities held by the plans coupled with historically low interest rates have substantially reduced, and in the future could further reduce, the funded status of the plans. These reductions may increase the level of expected required pension and other post-retirement benefit plan contributions in future years. Various conditions may lead to changes in the discount rates used to value the year-end benefit obligations of the plans, which could partially mitigate, or worsen, the effects of lower asset returns. If adverse conditions were to continue for an extended period of time, the Companys costs and required cash contributions associated with pension and other post-retirement benefits plans may substantially increase in future periods. 24 The Company may become liable for funding obligations arising from multi-employer pension plan obligations of the Companys former affiliates. On April 13, 2020, LSC announced that it, along with most of its U.S. subsidiaries, voluntarily filed for business reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. LSC and the Company separated from RRD in a tax-free distribution to stockholders of RRD effective October 1, 2016. In the second quarter of 2020, the Company became aware that, subsequent to the LSC Chapter 11 Filing, LSC failed to make certain required monthly and quarterly withdrawal liability payments to multiemployer pension plans from which RRD had withdrawn prior to the Separation. Responsibility for certain pre-Separation withdrawal liability obligations, resulting in such monthly and quarterly payment obligations (the LSC MEPP Liabilities), had been assigned to LSC pursuant to the Separation Agreement, while RRD retained responsibility for certain other pre-Separation withdrawal liability assessments against RRD. However, the Company and RRD remain jointly and severally liable for the LSC MEPP Liabilities pursuant to laws and regulations governing multiemployer pension plans and the Company remains jointly and severally liable for certain additional RRD MEPP liabilities. In March 2021 and April 2021, the Company and RRD reached settlements with two of the three LSC multiemployer pension plan funds, which represented approximately $59 million of the estimated $103 million total undiscounted LSC MEPP Liabilities at the time of the LSC Chapter 11 filing. The Company and RRD each made lump sum payments in the second quarter of 2021 to settle all obligations related to these funds. In November 2021, arbitration proceedings were completed and the final allocation of the liability between the Company and RRD was determined. If RRD fails to make required payments in respect of the remaining LSC MEPP Liabilities or RRD fails to make required payments in respect of the RRD MEPP liabilities, the Company may become obligated to make such payments, which payment obligations may negatively impact the Companys cash flows and results of operations. In addition, the Companys MEPP liabilities could also be affected by the financial stability of other employers participating in such plans and decisions by those employers to withdraw from such plans in the future. See Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about these potential LSC MEPP Liabilities. The trend of increasing costs to provide health care and other benefits to employees and retirees may continue. DFIN provides health care and other benefits to both employees and retirees. For many years, costs for health care have increased more rapidly than general inflation in the U.S. economy. If this trend in health care costs continues, the cost to provide such benefits could increase, adversely impacting profitability. Changes to health care regulations in the U.S. and internationally may also increase cost of providing such benefits. ITEM 1B. UNRESOL VED STAFF COMMENTS None. ITEM 2. PROP ERTIES The Companys corporate office is located in leased office space at 35 West Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois, 60601. As of December 31, 2021, the Company leased or owned 22 U.S. facilities, some of which had multiple buildings and warehouses, and these U.S. facilities encompassed approximately 0.7 million square feet. The Company leased 21 international facilities, some of which had multiple buildings and warehouses, encompassing less than 0.1 million square feet in Europe, Asia and Canada. Of the Companys worldwide facilities, approximately 0.2 million square feet of space was owned, while the remaining 0.6 million square feet of space was leased. ITEM 3. LEG AL PROCEEDINGS For a discussion of certain litigation involving the Company, see Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies , to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 4. MIN E SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 25 PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR DONNELLEY FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS, INC.S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Principal Market DFINs common stock began regular-way trading under the ticker symbol DFIN on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) on October 3, 2016. Stockholders As of February 15, 2022, there were 3,735 stockholders of record of the Companys common stock. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (a) October 1, 2021 - October 31, 2021 271,775 $ 37.11 271,775 $ 21,359,231 November 1, 2021 - November 30, 2021 39,722 40.78 39,722 19,739,493 December 1, 2021 - December 31, 2021 (b) 46,063 44.09 46,063 17,708,775 Total 357,560 $ 38.42 357,560 ___________ (a) On February 4, 2020, the Board of Directors (the Board) authorized a stock repurchase program, under which the Company is authorized to repurchase up to $25.0 million of its outstanding common stock from time to time in one or more transactions on the open market or in privately negotiated purchases in accordance with all applicable securities laws and regulations. On February 18, 2021, the Board authorized an increase to its stock repurchase program to bring the total remaining available repurchase authorization for shares on or after February 18, 2021 to $50 million. On February 17, 2022, the Board authorized an increase to its stock repurchase program to bring the total remaining available repurchase for shares on or after February 17, 2022 to $150 million and extended the expiration date of the repurchase program through December 31, 2023. The stock repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time. The timing and amount of any shares repurchased are determined by the Company based on its evaluation of market conditions and other factors and may be completed from time to time in one or more transactions on the open market or in privately negotiated purchases in accordance with all applicable securities laws and regulations and all repurchases in the open market will be made in compliance with Rule 10b-18 under the Exchange Act. Repurchases may also be made under a Rule 10b5-1 plan, which would permit shares to be repurchased when the Company might otherwise be precluded from doing so. (b) Includes 4,000 shares, valued at $0.2 million, for which the Company placed orders prior to December 31, 2021 that were not settled until the first quarter of 2022. Equity Compensation Plans For information regarding equity compensation plans, see Item 12 of Part III of the Annual Report. 26 PEER PERFORMANCE TABLE The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on DFINs common stock from December 31, 2016 through December 31, 2021, with (i) the cumulative total return of the Russell 2000 Index, (ii) the cumulative return of the Standard & Poors (S&P) SmallCap 600 Index, and (iii) S&P Composite 1500 Diversified Financials Index, a business industry index of which DFIN is a constituent. The comparison assumes all dividends have been reinvested and an initial investment of $100 on December 31, 2016. The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance. Performance Table Base Period December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, December 31, Company Name/Index 12/31/2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 Donnelley Financial Solutions 100 84.81 61.05 45.56 73.85 205.13 Russell 2000 Index 100 114.65 102.02 128.06 153.62 176.39 S&P SmallCap 600 Index 100 113.23 103.63 127.24 141.60 179.58 S&P Composite 1500 Diversified Financials Index 100 125.37 112.54 140.18 156.19 211.83 This performance graph and other information furnished under Item 5 of Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K shall not be deemed to be soliciting material or to be filed with the SEC or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C, or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act. ITEM 6. [RESERVED] 27 ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISC USSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read together with the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto, as well as Item 1. Business included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. MD&A contains a number of forward-looking statements, all of which are based on the Companys current expectations and could be affected by the risks and uncertainties, as well as other factors, described throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, particularly in Item 1A. Risk Factors and Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements. Business For a description of the Companys business and services and products offerings, refer to Item 1. Business of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company separately reports its net sales and related cost of sales for its software solutions, tech-enabled services and print and distribution offerings. The Companys software solutions consist of Venue, ActiveDisclosure, eBrevia, Arc Suite and others. The Companys tech-enabled services offerings consist of document composition, compliance-related SEC EDGAR filing services and transaction solutions. The Companys print and distribution offerings primarily consist of conventional and digital printed products and related shipping. Segments The Company operates its business through four operating and reportable segments: Capital Markets Software Solutions, Capital Markets Compliance and Communications Management, Investment Companies Software Solutions and Investment Companies Compliance and Communications Management. Corporate is not an operating segment and consists primarily of unallocated SG&A activities and associated expenses including, in part, executive, legal, finance and certain facility costs. In addition, certain costs and earnings of employee benefit plans, such as pension and other postretirement benefits plan expense (income) as well as share-based compensation expense, are included in Corporate and not allocated to the operating segments. For a description of the Companys operating segments, refer to Item 1. Business of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Executive Overview 2021 Overview Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by $98.8 million, or 11.0%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, including a $5.4 million, or 0.6%, increase due to changes in foreign exchange rates. Net sales increased primarily due to higher capital markets transactional and compliance volumes and higher software solutions volumes in Venue, Arc Suite and ActiveDisclosure, partially offset by lower insurance and investment companies compliance print volumes as a result of the impact of SEC Rules 30e-3 and 498A on the Company's business. Income from operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $215.7 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Income from operations increased primarily due to higher sales volumes, a $65.6 million reduction in restructuring, impairment, and other charges, net, a favorable sales mix, cost savings as a result of consolidation of the print platform and a $13.6 million decrease in LSC multiemployer pension plan obligation expense, partially offset by higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volume, higher incentive compensation expense and higher share-based compensation expense. Redemption of 8.25% Senior Notes Due 2024 and Partial Prepayment of the Term Loan A Facility On October 15, 2021, the Company redeemed the remaining outstanding Notes balance of $233.0 million at the redemption price of 102.063, plus accrued and unpaid interest of $9.6 million, using $200.0 million of proceeds from the Company's Term Loan A Facility and cash. The Company recorded a pre-tax loss on the extinguishment of the Notes of $6.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. In the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company prepaid $75.0 million of the original principal amount of the Term Loan A Facility and recorded a pre-tax loss on the extinguishment of debt of $0.6 million. 28 COVID-19 As further described in Part 1Item 1. BusinessCOVID-19 , in December 2019, COVID-19 was identified in China and has since extensively impacted the global health and economic environment. On March 11, 2020, WHO characterized COVID-19 as a pandemic. Although COVID-19 has adversely impacted the Companys financial condition, results of operations and overall financial performance, the extent of that impact is currently uncertain and depends on factors including the impact on the Companys customers, employees and vendors. The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have a material adverse impact on certain of the Companys customers financial results, which has and may continue to force those clients to alter their plans for purchasing the Companys services and products. In addition, the global markets were disrupted due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which had a temporary negative impact on the Companys transactional offerings. This stabilized in the third quarter of 2020 and the Company continues to experience a high volume of transactional offerings. However, there remains uncertainty for future periods with the COVID-19 pandemic, including potentially new strains of COVID-19, resulting in renewal of mitigation measures, including targeted shutdowns. Some of this volatility is mitigated through the Companys compliance offerings, supporting the quarterly and annual public company reporting processes, as well as its investment companies regulatory and stockholder communications offerings. If the Companys customers reduce, defer or cancel their spending with DFIN, it would materially adversely impact the Companys business, results of operations and overall financial performance. Some of the Companys operations also have been affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within the Companys control. For example, many jurisdictions imposed a wide range of restrictions on the physical movement of the Companys employees and vendors to limit the spread of COVID-19, although most of these restrictions have been rescinded, in whole or in part. If any of these external factors or widespread geographic shutdowns are renewed, or if the COVID-19 pandemic and related mitigation measures otherwise have a substantial impact on the Companys or vendors employee attendance or productivity, the Companys operations are expected to be adversely affected, and in turn the Companys business, results of operations, liquidity and overall financial performance would be harmed. Furthermore, the Companys insurance costs may increase. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company has taken numerous steps, and will continue to take further actions to ensure the safety of the Company's employees. At the beginning of the pandemic, the Company reviewed and implemented an updated business continuity plan, required all non-essential employees to work from home, prohibited non-essential travel and conducted client and employee meetings virtually. During the third quarter of 2021, the Company implemented a flexible model that allows employees the option to continue to work from home, with the exception of essential employees whose roles require them to be on site. In the Company's manufacturing locations, the Company is following all federal, state and local safety requirements including social distancing where possible, wearing masks and increased cleaning. The Company continues to evaluate these measures on an ongoing basis to ensure continuity of the Company's business operations and the safety of the Company's workforce. Incremental expenses incurred related to the COVID-19 pandemic included incremental vendor costs and premium wages paid to certain employees as well as costs to clean and disinfect the Companys facilities more frequently. The Company could incur such costs in future periods, however, the impact of such costs on the Company's business, results of operations, liquidity and overall financial performance cannot be predicted at this time. As a result of the incremental expenses, starting in the second quarter of 2020, the Company invoiced certain customers COVID-19-related sales surcharges to recoup some of the expenses. The invoicing of sales surcharges subsided during 2021. In the second half of 2020, the Company also received certain government subsidies in connection with COVID-19, primarily related to employee wages at certain international locations. The Company recorded $1.0 million of COVID-19 recoveries, net, primarily related to an insurance reimbursement for COVID-19 expenses during the year ended December 31, 2021, and incurred $0.5 million of incremental expense, net of sales surcharges and government subsidies, during the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company also continues to work closely with its clients to support them as they implement their own contingency plans, helping them access the Company's services and products and continue to meet their regulatory requirements. The Company believes that implementing cost reduction efforts helped mitigate the impact that reduced revenues in the first half of 2020 had on income from operations. The Company has reduced expenses and may take further actions that alter its business operations as the situation evolves. The ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the effects on the Companys business, results of operations, liquidity and overall financial performance cannot be predicted at this time. 29 Multiemployer Pension Plans Obligation On April 13, 2020, LSC announced that it, along with most of its U.S. subsidiaries, voluntarily filed for business reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (LSC Chapter 11 Filing). In the second quarter of 2020, the Company became aware that, subsequent to the LSC Chapter 11 Filing, LSC failed to make certain required monthly and quarterly withdrawal liability payments to multiemployer pension plans ("MEPP") from which RRD had withdrawn prior to the Separation. Responsibility for certain pre-Separation withdrawal liability obligations, resulting in such monthly and quarterly payment obligations (the LSC MEPP Liabilities), had been assigned to LSC pursuant to the September 14, 2016 Separation and Distribution Agreement among the Company, RRD and LSC (the Separation Agreement), however, the Company and RRD remained jointly and severally liable for the LSC MEPP Liabilities pursuant to laws and regulations governing multiemployer pension plans. The Company believes the total undiscounted LSC MEPP Liabilities for which LSC was responsible at the time of the LSC Chapter 11 Filing were approximately $103 million (or approximately $57 million on a discounted basis, assuming a blended discount rate of approximately 10%) and were payable over approximately a 15-year period (through 2034), with annual payments ranging from $1.6 million to $8.5 million at the time. On July 24, 2020, the Company and RRD signed an agreement agreeing to submit to mediation and, if required, arbitration to determine the final liability allocation between the Company and RRD with respect to the LSC MEPP Liabilities. DFIN and RRD also agreed to share all required monthly and quarterly withdrawal liability payment obligations that become due during the mediation/arbitration period, with an adjustment and repayment to be made for any such payments according to the final allocation. The Company is required to record a liability when it is probable that a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. In 2020, the Company recorded charges of $19.0 million and had $15.2 million accrued as of December 31, 2020 for its estimated payments related to the LSC MEPP Liabilities, including the Companys low end of the range of potential outcomes as well as the Companys estimated shared payments until a final allocation was determined. In March 2021 and April 2021, the Company and RRD reached settlements with two of the three LSC multiemployer pension plan funds, which represented approximately $59 million of the estimated $103 million total undiscounted LSC MEPP Liabilities at the time of the LSC Chapter 11 filing. The Company and RRD each made lump sum payments in the second quarter of 2021 to settle all obligations related to these funds, which were also subject to adjustment and repayment according to the final liability allocation determination. In November 2021, arbitration proceedings were completed and the final allocation of the LSC MEPP Liabilities of 1/3 to the Company and 2/3 to RRD was determined by the arbitration panel. As a result of the final liability allocation, the Company received a reimbursement from RRD of $7.1 million in December 2021 for payments made in excess of the Companys allocated share of the LSC MEPP Liabilities, including the lump sum payments made associated with the March 2021 and April 2021 settlements, and adjusted its accruals for the Companys portion of the LSC MEPP Liabilities. As of December 31, 2021, the Company's undiscounted LSC MEPP Liabilities were $12.3 million, $1.1 million of which is payable in each of the five succeeding years and the remainder thereafter through 2033, with annual payments ranging from $0.8 million to $1.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded net expense of $5.4 million and had $10.1 million accrued as of December 31, 2021, on a discounted basis, assuming a blended discount rate of approximately 3.5%. The expense associated with the LSC MEPP Liabilities and the reimbursement from RRD have been recorded in SG&A expenses within the Corporate segment in the Companys audited Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. There can be no assurance that the Companys actual future liabilities relating to MEPP liabilities (including MEPP liabilities where the Company and RRD remain jointly and severally liable) will not differ materially from the amount recorded in the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements. If RRD fails to make required payments in respect of the remaining LSC MEPP Liabilities, or RRD fails to make required payments in respect to RRD's MEPP liabilities, the Company may become obligated to make such payments. In addition, the Companys MEPP liabilities could be affected by the financial stability of other employers participating in such plans and decisions by those employers to withdraw from such plans in the future. 30 Financial Review In the financial review that follows, the Company discusses its consolidated results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and certain other information. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes thereto. A discussion of the Company's financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019, can be found in Part II, " Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations " of DFIN's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2021. Results of Operations for the Year Ended December 31, 2021 as Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2020 The following table shows the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Net sales Tech-enabled services $ 519.5 $ 409.2 $ 110.3 27.0 % Software solutions 270.0 200.2 69.8 34.9 % Print and distribution 203.8 285.1 (81.3 ) (28.5 %) Total net sales 993.3 894.5 98.8 11.0 % Cost of sales (a) Tech-enabled services 162.3 176.1 (13.8 ) (7.8 %) Software solutions 105.3 93.9 11.4 12.1 % Print and distribution 145.5 226.0 (80.5 ) (35.6 %) Total cost of sales 413.1 496.0 (82.9 ) (16.7 %) Selling, general and administrative expenses (a) 307.7 264.8 42.9 16.2 % Depreciation and amortization 40.3 50.9 (10.6 ) (20.8 %) Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 13.6 79.2 (65.6 ) (82.8 %) Other operating income, net (0.7 ) (0.7 ) nm Income from operations 219.3 3.6 215.7 nm Interest expense, net 26.6 22.8 3.8 16.7 % Investment and other income, net (5.1 ) (1.7 ) (3.4 ) nm Earnings (loss) before income taxes 197.8 (17.5 ) 215.3 nm Income tax expense 51.9 8.4 43.5 nm Net earnings (loss) $ 145.9 $ (25.9 ) $ 171.8 nm nm Not meaningful (a) Exclusive of depreciation and amortization Consolidated Net sales of tech-enabled services of $519.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $110.3 million, or 27.0%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales of tech-enabled services increased primarily due to increased capital markets transactional and compliance volumes, partially offset by lower insurance and investment companies compliance volumes. Net sales of software solutions of $270.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $69.8 million, or 34.9%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales of software solutions increased primarily due to increased Venue, ArcDigital, ActiveDisclosure and ArcPro volumes. Net sales of print and distribution of $203.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased $81.3 million, or 28.5%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales of print and distribution decreased primarily due to lower insurance and investment companies compliance volumes as a result of the impact of SEC Rules 30e-3 and 498A on the Company's business, partially offset by higher capital markets transactional print volumes. 31 Tech-enabled services cost of sales of $162.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased $13.8 million, or 7.8%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to a favorable sales mix and cost control initiatives, partially offset by the impact of higher sales volumes, a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. As a percentage of tech-enabled services net sales, tech-enabled services cost of sales decreased 11.8%, primarily driven by a favorable sales mix and cost control initiatives, partially offset by a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. Software solutions cost of sales of $105.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $11.4 million, or 12.1%, as compared the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to increased sales volume, a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense, partially offset by a favorable sales mix and cost control initiatives. As a percentage of software solutions net sales, software solutions costs of sales decreased 7.9%, primarily driven by a favorable sales mix and cost control initiatives, partially offset by a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. Print and distribution cost of sales of $145.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased $80.5 million, or 35.6%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to the impact of lower sales volumes as a result of the impact of SEC Rules 30e-3 and 498A on the Company's business, cost savings as a result of the consolidation of the print platform and a lower allocation of overhead costs, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense. As a percentage of print and distribution net sales, print and distribution cost of sales decreased 7.9%, primarily driven by cost savings as a result of the consolidation of the print platform and a lower allocation of overhead costs, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense. SG&A expenses of $307.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $42.9 million, or 16.2%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volume, higher incentive compensation expense and higher share-based compensation expense, partially offset by a $13.6 million decrease in LSC multiemployer pension plan obligation expense. As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses increased from 29.6% for the year ended December 31, 2020 to 31.0% for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volume, higher incentive compensation expense and higher share-based compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease in LSC multiemployer pension plan obligation expense. Depreciation and amortization of $40.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased $10.6 million, or 20.8%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Depreciation and amortization decreased primarily due to intangible assets that were fully amortized by the end of fiscal year 2020. Depreciation and amortization included $1.1 million and $12.4 million of amortization of other intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net of $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased $65.6 million, or 82.8%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, these charges included impairment charges of $9.2 million, primarily related to the impairment of an equity investment and the demolition of an office building, and $3.4 million for employee termination costs for approximately 175 employees. For the year ended December 31, 2020, these charges included a $40.6 million non-cash goodwill impairment charge within the IC-CCM reporting unit, $15.6 million of employee termination costs for approximately 470 employees, impairment charges of $20.0 million primarily related to operating lease ROU assets and $3.0 million of other charges, primarily related to the realignment of the Company's operating segments. Other operating income, net of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 included a net gain on the sale of machinery and equipment from facilities being exited. Income from operations of $219.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $215.7 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher sales volumes, a $65.6 million reduction in restructuring, impairment, and other charges, net, a favorable sales mix, cost savings as a result of consolidation of the print platform and a $13.6 million decrease in LSC multiemployer pension plan obligation expense, partially offset by higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volume, higher incentive compensation expense and higher share-based compensation expense. 32 Interest expense, net of $26.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $3.8 million, or 16.7%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to $7.4 million of losses on debt extinguishments recorded during 2021 compared to a $2.3 million gain on debt extinguishment recorded during 2020, partially offset by a lower average Revolving Facility balance during 2021 compared to 2020, and the prepayment of the Notes during the fourth quarter of 2021, which were replaced by the Term Loan A that has a lower interest rate. Investment and other income, net of $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $3.4 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to an increase in net pension plan income. The effective income tax rate was 26.2% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to (48.0%) for the year ended December 31, 2020. The change in the effective tax rate was primarily driven by the nondeductible goodwill impairment charge recorded in 2020, increased earnings in 2021 and a reduction in the valuation allowances. Refer to Note 9, Income Taxes , for further details. Information by Segment The following tables summarize net sales, income (loss) from operations and certain items impacting comparability within each of the operating segments and Corporate. Capital Markets Software Solutions Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 181.0 $ 133.2 $ 47.8 35.9 % Income from operations 30.4 8.5 21.9 nm Operating margin 16.8 % 6.4 % Items impacting comparability Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 0.4 1.0 (0.6 ) (60.0 %) Non-income tax, net (1.0 ) 3.4 (4.4 ) nm Accelerated rent expense 0.5 (0.5 ) (100.0 %) nm Not meaningful Net sales of $181.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $47.8 million, or 35.9%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales increased primarily due to higher Venue, ActiveDisclosure and other compliance software solutions volumes. Income from operations of $30.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $21.9 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher sales volumes, a favorable sales mix, a reduction of non-income tax, net expense, and cost savings initiatives, partially offset by higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volumes, a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. Operating margin increased from 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2020 to 16.8% for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to a favorable sales mix, a reduction of non-income tax, net expense, which had a positive impact on the change in operating margin of 2.4%, and cost savings initiatives, partially offset by higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volumes, a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. 33 Capital Markets Compliance and Communications Management Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 561.5 $ 424.0 $ 137.5 32.4 % Income from operations 242.6 120.6 122.0 nm Operating margin 43.2 % 28.4 % Items impacting comparability Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 3.5 22.2 (18.7 ) (84.2 %) COVID-19 related recoveries, net (0.2 ) (2.2 ) 2.0 (90.9 %) Non-income tax, net (0.2 ) 0.6 (0.8 ) nm Accelerated rent expense 1.2 (1.2 ) (100.0 %) nm Not meaningful Net sales of $561.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $137.5 million, or 32.4%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales increased primarily due to higher transactional and compliance volumes. Income from operations of $242.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $122.0 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher sales volume, a favorable sales mix, a decrease in restructuring, impairment, and other charges, net, a reduction in depreciation and amortization and cost savings initiatives, partially offset by higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volume, a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. Operating margin increased from 28.4% for the year ended December 31, 2020 to 43.2% for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher sales volume, a favorable sales mix, a decrease in restructuring, impairment, and other charges, net, which had a positive impact on operating margin of 3.3%, a reduction in depreciation and amortization and cost savings initiatives, partially offset by higher selling expense as a result of increased sales volume, a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. Investment Companies Software Solutions Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 89.0 $ 67.0 $ 22.0 32.8 % Income (loss) from operations 8.9 (1.7 ) 10.6 nm Operating margin 10.0 % (2.5 %) Items impacting comparability Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 0.1 3.0 (2.9 ) (96.7 %) Non-income tax, net (0.3 ) 1.0 (1.3 ) nm Accelerated rent expense 0.1 (0.1 ) (100.0 %) nm Not meaningful Net sales of $89.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $22.0 million, or 32.8%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales increased primarily due to higher ArcDigital volume resulting from the TCM offering, which supports compliance with SEC Rules 30e-3 and 498A regulatory requirements, and higher ArcPro volumes driven by iXBRL requirements. Income from operations of $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $10.6 million as compared to an operating loss of $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher sales volumes, a favorable sales mix and a decrease in restructuring, impairment, and other charges, net, partially offset by a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. Operating margin increased from a negative margin of 2.5% for the year ended December 31, 2020 to 10.0% for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher sales volume, a favorable net sales mix, along with a decrease in restructuring, impairment, and other charges, net, which had a positive impact on operating margin of 3.3%, partially offset by a higher allocation of overhead costs and higher incentive compensation expense. 34 Investment Companies Compliance and Communications Management Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 $ Change % Change (in millions, except percentages) Net sales $ 161.8 $ 270.3 $ (108.5 ) (40.1 %) Income (loss) from operations 15.0 (43.1 ) 58.1 nm Operating margin 9.3 % (15.9 %) Items impacting comparability Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 2.9 46.2 (43.3 ) (93.7 %) COVID-19 related (recoveries) expenses, net (0.8 ) 2.4 (3.2 ) nm Gain on sale of long-lived assets, net (0.7 ) (0.7 ) nm Non-income tax, net (0.1 ) 0.2 (0.3 ) nm Accelerated rent expense 0.3 (0.3 ) (100.0 %) nm Not meaningful Net sales of $161.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased $108.5 million, or 40.1%, as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net sales decreased primarily due to lower insurance and investment companies compliance volumes as a result of SEC Rules 30e-3 and 498A eliminating print requirements and lower transactional and commercial volumes. Income from operations of $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased $58.1 million as compared to an operating loss of $43.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to a decrease in restructuring, impairment and other charges, net, which included a $40.6 million goodwill impairment charge in 2020, cost savings as a result of the print platform consolidation, a lower allocation of overhead costs, a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense and a decrease in COVID-19 related expenses, net, partially offset by lower sales volume and higher incentive compensation expense. Operating margin increased from a negative margin of 15.9% for the year ended December 31, 2020 to 9.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily due to a decrease in restructuring, impairment and other charges, net, as well as a decrease in COVID-19 related expenses, net, which combined had a positive impact on operating margin of 28.7%, cost savings as a result of the print platform consolidation, a lower allocation of overhead costs and a reduction in depreciation and amortization expense, partially offset by higher incentive compensation expense. Corporate The following table summarizes unallocated operating expenses and certain items impacting comparability within the activities presented as Corporate: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 (in millions) Operating expenses $ 77.6 $ 80.7 Items impacting comparability Share-based compensation expense 19.5 13.6 Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 6.7 6.8 LSC multiemployer pension plans obligation 5.4 19.0 COVID-19 related expenses, net 0.3 eBrevia contingent consideration (0.8 ) Accelerated rent expense 0.1 Corporate operating expenses of $77.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 decreased $3.1 million as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to a $13.6 million decrease in LSC multiemployer pension plan obligation expense and lower legal expenses, partially offset by higher incentive compensation, share-based compensation and consulting expenses. 35 Non-GAAP Measures The Company believes that certain Non-GAAP measures, such as Non-GAAP adjusted EBITDA (Adjusted EBITDA), provide useful information about the Companys operating results and enhance the overall ability to assess the Companys financial performance. The Company uses these measures, together with other measures of performance prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP), to compare the relative performance of operations in planning, budgeting and reviewing the performance of its business. Adjusted EBITDA allows investors to make a more meaningful comparison between the Companys core business operating results over different periods of time. The Company believes that Adjusted EBITDA, when viewed with the Companys results under GAAP and the accompanying reconciliations, provides useful information about the Companys business without regard to potential distortions. By eliminating potential differences in results of operations between periods caused by factors such as historic cost and age of assets, restructuring, impairment and other charges, acquisition-related expenses, and gain or loss on certain equity investments and asset sales as well as other items, as described below, the Company believes that Adjusted EBITDA can provide a useful additional basis for comparing the current performance of the underlying operations being evaluated. Adjusted EBITDA is not presented in accordance with GAAP and has important limitations as an analytical tool. These measures should not be considered as a substitute for analysis of the Companys results as reported under GAAP. In addition, these measures are defined differently by different companies and, accordingly, such measures may not be comparable to similarly-titled measures of other companies. In addition to the factors listed above, the following items are excluded from Adjusted EBITDA: Share-based compensation expense. Although share-based compensation is a key incentive offered to certain of the Companys employees, business performance is evaluated excluding share-based compensation expenses. Depending upon the size, timing and the terms of grants, non-cash compensation expense may vary but will recur in future periods. COVID-19 related (recoveries) expenses, net. Recoveries recognized and incremental expenses incurred as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Incremental expenses included incremental vendor costs and premium wages paid to certain employees as well as costs to clean and disinfect the Company's facilities more frequently. As a result of these incremental expenses, the Company invoiced certain customers COVID-19 related surcharges as well as received an insurance reimbursement associated with certain COVID-19 related expenses. In 2020, the Company also received certain government subsidies, primarily related to employee wages at certain international locations. A reconciliation of net earnings (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 is presented in the following table: Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 (in millions) Net earnings (loss) $ 145.9 $ (25.9 ) Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 13.6 79.2 Share-based compensation expense 19.5 13.6 LSC multiemployer pension plans obligation 5.4 19.0 Non-income tax, net (1.6 ) 5.2 COVID-19 related (recoveries) expenses, net (1.0 ) 0.5 Gain on sale of long-lived assets, net (0.7 ) Gain on equity investments, net (0.4 ) Accelerated rent expense 2.2 eBrevia contingent consideration (0.8 ) Depreciation and amortization 40.3 50.9 Interest expense, net 26.6 22.8 Investment and other income, net (4.7 ) (1.7 ) Income tax expense 51.9 8.4 Adjusted EBITDA $ 294.8 $ 173.4 36 Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net The year ended December 31, 2021 included employee termination costs of $3.4 million and impairment charges of $9.2 million, primarily related to a partial impairment of an investment in equity securities and the demolition of an office building, as further described in Note 1, Overview, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies . The year ended December 31, 2020 included employee termination costs of $15.6 million, non-cash impairment charges of $60.6 million, primarily related to IC-CCM goodwill and operating lease ROU assets and $3.0 million of other charges, primarily related to the realignment of the Company's operating segments. Refer to Note 6, Restructuring, Impairment and Other Charges , for additional information. Share-based compensation expense Included charges of $19.5 million and $13.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. LSC multiemployer pension plans obligation Included charges of $5.4 million and $19.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, for the Companys accrual related to the LSC MEPP Liabilities. The charge for the year ended December 31, 2021 is net of a $7.1 million reimbursement from RRD as a result of the final allocation of the liability. Refer to Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information. Non-income tax, net Included income of $1.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 and a charge of $5.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, related to the Companys accrual for certain estimated non-income tax exposures. Refer to Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies, for additional information. COVID-19 related (recoveries) expenses, net Included net recoveries of $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily related to an insurance reimbursement of COVID-19 expenses, and net charges of $0.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily related to incremental vendor costs, premium wages and incentive compensation paid to certain employees, net of COVID-19 related sales surcharges invoiced to certain customers and government subsidies, as described above. Gain on sale of long-lived assets, net Included a net gain of $0.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily related to the sale of machinery and equipment from facilities being exited as a result of restructuring actions. Gain on equity investments, net Included a net unrealized gain of $0.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Gain on equity investments, net is included in investment and other income, net in the audited Consolidated Statements of Operations. Accelerated rent expense Included a charge of $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily related to the acceleration of rent expense associated with abandoned operating leases. eBrevia contingent consideration Included a gain of $0.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, as a result of a decrease in the contingent consideration for the former owners of eBrevia. Selected Financial Data Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 (in millions, except per share data) Consolidated Statements of Operations data: Net sales $ 993.3 $ 894.5 Net earnings (loss) 145.9 (25.9 ) Net earnings (loss) per share Basic 4.36 (0.76 ) Diluted 4.14 (0.76 ) Consolidated Balance Sheets data: Total assets 883.3 865.6 Long-term debt 124.0 230.5 37 The following table includes the pre-tax and after-tax impact of certain Non-GAAP items for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Year Ended December 31, 2021 Pre-tax After-tax (in millions) Non-income tax, net $ (1.6 ) $ (1.2 ) COVID-19 related recoveries, net (1.0 ) (0.7 ) Gain on sale of long-lived assets, net (0.7 ) (0.5 ) Gain on equity investments, net (0.4 ) (0.3 ) Share-based compensation expense 19.5 9.9 Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 13.6 9.9 Loss on debt extinguishments 7.4 5.4 LSC multiemployer pension plans obligation 5.4 3.9 Year Ended December 31, 2020 Pre-tax After-tax (in millions) Gain on debt extinguishments $ (2.3 ) $ (1.7 ) eBrevia contingent consideration (0.8 ) (0.8 ) Restructuring, impairment and other charges, net 79.2 67.9 LSC multiemployer pension plans obligation 19.0 13.9 Share-based compensation expense 13.6 11.1 Non-income tax, net 5.2 3.8 Accelerated rent expense 2.2 1.7 COVID-19 related expenses, net 0.5 0.2 Liquidity and Capital Resources The Company believes it has sufficient liquidity to support its ongoing operations and to invest in future growth to create value for its stockholders. Cash on hand, operating cash flows and the Companys Revolving Facility are the primary sources of liquidity and are expected to be used for, among other things, payment of interest and principal on the Companys debt obligations, capital expenditures necessary to support productivity improvement and growth, acquisitions and completion of restructuring programs. The Company maintains cash pooling structures that enable participating international locations to draw on the pools cash resources to meet local liquidity needs. Foreign cash balances may be loaned from certain cash pools to U.S. operating entities on a temporary basis in order to reduce the Companys short-term borrowing costs or for other purposes. The Company has the ability to repatriate foreign cash, associated with foreign earnings previously subjected to U.S. tax, with minimal additional tax consequences. The Company maintains its assertion of indefinite reinvestment on all foreign earnings and other outside basis differences to indicate that the Company remains indefinitely reinvested in operations outside of the U.S., with the exception of the previously taxed foreign earnings already subject to U.S. tax. The Company repatriated excess cash at its foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. during the years ended December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2019 and did not make cash repatriations during 2020. The Company is evaluating whether to make any cash repatriations in the future. The Company currently expects capital expenditures to be approximately $50 million to $55 million in 2022, as compared to $42.3 million in 2021. The Company is also evaluating additional investment opportunities that could increase 2022 capital expenditures by an incremental $10 million to $15 million. The increase in capital expenditures related to the amount currently expected and the incremental opportunities being evaluated are primarily related to investments in the Company's software portfolio. As of December 31, 2021, cash and cash equivalents were $54.5 million, a decrease of $19.1 million as compared to December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2021, cash and cash equivalents included $24.5 million in the U.S. and $30.0 million at international locations. 38 The following describes the Companys cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 180.0 $ 154.2 Net cash used in investing activities (45.0 ) (19.8 ) Net cash used in financing activities (154.9 ) (77.5 ) Effect of exchange rate on cash and cash equivalents 0.8 (0.5 ) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (19.1 ) $ 56.4 Cash Flows Provided By Operating Activities Operating cash inflows and outflows are largely attributable to sales of the Companys services and products as well as recurring expenditures for labor, rent, raw materials and other operating activities. 2021 compared to 2020 Net cash provided by operating activities was $180.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to $154.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in cash provided by operating activities of $25.8 million was primarily due to the significant increase in net earnings, partially offset by the timing of payments, an increase in income taxes paid and a decrease in collections due to timing of customer payments. Accounts payable and accrued liabilities and other increased operating cash flows by $16.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to a $74.9 million increase in operating cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to higher incentive compensation and commission payments during 2021 and timing of vendor payments. The Company's income tax payments increased by $43.3 million to $65.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 from $21.7 million, primarily due to federal and state income tax payments made in the year ended December 31, 2021. Accounts receivable decreased operating cash flow by $28.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, as compared to $14.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Cash Flows Used In Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $45.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, and primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $42.3 million, mostly driven by investment in software development, and the acquisition of Guardum. Net cash used in investing activities was $19.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, and primarily consisted of capital expenditures of $31.1 million, mostly driven by investment in software development, partially offset by $12.8 million of proceeds from the sale of one of the Companys investments in equity securities. Cash Flows Used In Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $154.9 million. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company received $278.0 million of proceeds from the Revolving Facility borrowings, offset by $278.0 million of payments on the Revolving Facility borrowings. The Company made $312.8 million of payments on long-term debt, including the redemption of $233.0 million of the Notes, which were partially paid for with proceeds of $200.0 million from the Term Loan A Facility during the year ended December 31, 2021, and $75.0 million of prepayments on the Term Loan A Facility. The Company's common stock repurchases for the year ended December 31, 2021 totaled $40.9 million, which included $32.2 million of repurchases under the stock repurchase program and $8.7 million associated with vesting of the Company employees' equity awards. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $77.5 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company received $369.0 million of proceeds from the Revolving Facility borrowings, offset by $369.0 million of payments on the Revolving Facility borrowings. The Company made payments of $63.8 million for the purchase and retirement of certain of the Companys notes. The Companys common stock repurchases for the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled $11.8 million. 39 Contractual Cash Obligations and Other Commitments and Contingencies As of December 31, 2021, the Company had total future contractual and other obligations of approximately $464 million, with approximately $206 million of the future contractual and other obligations due during 2022. The future contractual obligations primarily consist of outstanding debt and related interest, operating and finance lease payments, outsourced services relating to information technology, maintenance and other services, sales commissions, incentive compensation, deferred compensation, multi-employer pension plan obligations, pension and other postretirement benefits plans contributions as well as other miscellaneous obligations. Refer to Note 1 , Overview, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies ; Note 5, Leases ; Note 6, Restructuring, Impairment and Other Charges ; Note 7, Retirement Plans ; Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies and Note 10 , Debt to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Debt The Companys debt as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 consisted of the following (in millions): December 31, 2021 2020 Term Loan A Facility $ 125.0 $ 8.25% senior notes due October 15, 2024 233.0 Unamortized debt issuance costs (1.0 ) (2.5 ) Total long-term debt $ 124.0 $ 230.5 The Companys debt maturity and interest payments schedule as of December 31, 2021 is shown in the table below: Payments Due In Total 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 and thereafter (in millions) Term Loan A Facility (a) $ 125.0 $ $ $ $ $ 125.0 $ Interest due on Term Loan A Facility (b) 11.8 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 1.4 Total as of December 31, 2021 $ 136.8 $ 2.6 $ 2.6 $ 2.6 $ 2.6 $ 126.4 $ _________ (a) Excludes unamortized debt issuance costs of $1.0 million, which do not represent contractual commitments with a fixed amount or maturity date. (b) Includes estimated interest for the Term Loan A Facility based on the interest rate at December 31, 2021. Estimated interest payments may differ in the future based on changes in floating interest rates, timing of additional prepayments or other factors or events. 8.25% Senior Notes Due 2024 On September 30, 2016, DFIN issued $300.0 million of 8.25% senior unsecured notes due October 15, 2024 (the Notes). The Companys Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture (the Indenture) where certain wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries of the Company guaranteed the Notes (the Guarantors). On October 15, 2021, the Company redeemed the remaining outstanding Notes balance of $233.0 million at the redemption price of 102.063, plus accrued and unpaid interest of $9.6 million using $200.0 million of proceeds from the Company's Term Loan A Facility and cash. The Company recorded a pre-tax loss on the extinguishment of the Notes of $6.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2021. During 2020, the Company purchased and retired $67.0 million (notional amount) of the Notes and recognized a pre-tax gain on the extinguishment of debt of $2.3 million, which was net of unamortized debt issuance costs. The loss (gain) on debt extinguishment is reflected within interest expense, net in the audited Consolidated Statements of Operations. 40 Prior to the repayment and the resulting release of all Guarantors, the Notes were fully and unconditionally as well as jointly and severally guaranteed, on an unsecured basis, by the Guarantors, which were comprised of each of the Companys direct and indirect wholly-owned U.S. subsidiaries that guaranteed the Companys obligations under the Credit Facilities, including Donnelley Financial, LLC and DFS International Holdings, Inc. The Notes were not guaranteed by the Companys foreign subsidiaries or unrestricted subsidiaries ("Nonguarantors"). The Indenture governing the Notes contained certain covenants applicable to the Company and its restricted subsidiaries, including limitations on: (1) liens; (2) indebtedness; (3) mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; (4) sales, transfers and other dispositions of assets; (5) loans and other investments; (6) dividends and other distributions, stock repurchases and redemptions and other restricted payments; (7) restrictions affecting subsidiaries; (8) transactions with affiliates; and (9) designations of unrestricted subsidiaries. Each of these covenants was subject to important exceptions and qualifications. The Notes and the related guarantees were the Company and the Guarantors, respective, senior unsecured obligations and ranked equally in right of payment to all senior debt, including the obligations under the Companys Credit Facilities, senior in right of payment to all subordinated debt, and effectively subordinated in right of payment to any of the Company and the Guarantors secured debt, to the extent of the value of the assets securing such debt. Credit Agreement On May 27, 2021 (the "Restatement Effective Date"), the Company amended and restated its credit agreement dated as of September 30, 2016 (as in effect prior to such amendment and restatement, the Credit Agreement, and the Credit Agreement, as so amended and restated, the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement), to, among other things extend the maturity of the $300.0 million Revolving Facility to May 27, 2026 and modify certain financial maintenance and negative covenants in the Credit Agreement. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement also provided for a $200.0 million delayed-draw Term Loan A Facility. On October 14, 2021, the Company drew $200.0 million from the Term Loan A Facility and used the proceeds to redeem the Company's Notes on October 15, 2021, as further described above. Under the Credit Agreement, the Term Loan A Facility bears interest at a rate equal to the sum of the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus a margin ranging from 2.00% to 2.50% based upon the Company's Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio. Prior to the prepayment of quarterly installments, as described below, the principal amount of loans under the Term Loan A Facility were due and payable in equal quarterly installments of 1.25% of the original principal amount of the loans during the first three years after the Restatement Effective Date, commencing on March 31, 2022, and 2.50% of the original principal amount of the loans thereafter. In the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company prepaid $75.0 million of the original principal amount of the Term Loan A Facility and recognized a pre-tax loss on extinguishment of debt of $0.6 million. As a result, quarterly installments of the original principal amount are no longer required and the entire unpaid principal amount of the Term Loan A Facility is due and payable on May 27, 2026. Voluntary prepayments of the Term Loan A Facility are permitted at any time without premium or penalty. The Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains a number of covenants, including a minimum Interest Coverage Ratio and the Consolidated Net Leverage Ratio, as defined in and calculated pursuant to the Credit Agreement, that, in part, restrict the Companys ability to incur additional indebtedness, create liens, engage in mergers and consolidations, make restricted payments and dispose of certain assets. The Credit Agreement generally allows annual dividend payments of up to $20.0 million in the aggregate, though additional dividends may be allowed subject to certain conditions. Each of these covenants is subject to important exceptions and qualifications. As of December 31, 2021, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility. Based on the Companys results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 and existing debt, the Company would have had the ability to utilize $297.8 million of the Revolving Facility and not have been in violation of the terms of the agreement. 41 The current availability under the Revolving Facility and net available liquidity as of December 31, 2021 is shown in the table below: December 31, 2021 Availability (in millions) Revolving Facility $ 300.0 Availability reduction from covenants $ 300.0 Usage Borrowings under the Revolving Facility $ Impact on availability related to outstanding letters of credit 2.2 $ 2.2 Current availability at December 31, 2021 $ 297.8 Cash and cash equivalents 54.5 Net Available Liquidity $ 352.3 The Company was in compliance with its debt covenants as of December 31, 2021, and expects to remain in compliance based on managements estimates of operating and financial results for 2022 and the foreseeable future. However, declines in market and economic conditions or demand for certain of the Companys services and products could impact the Companys ability to remain in compliance with its debt covenants in future periods. The failure of a financial institution supporting the Revolving Facility would reduce the size of the Companys committed facility unless a replacement institution was added. As of December 31, 2021, the Revolving Facility is supported by fifteen U.S. and international financial institutions. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had $3.2 million in outstanding letters of credit and bank guarantees, of which $2.2 million reduced the availability under the Revolving Facility. As of December 31, 2021, the Company met all the conditions required to borrow under the Revolving Facility and management expects the Company to continue to meet the applicable borrowing conditions. Acquisitions and Dispositions On December 13, 2021, the Company completed the acquisition of Guardum, a leading data security and privacy software provider that helps companies locate, secure and control data. The acquisition enhances the Company's Venue offering. By safeguarding privacy and improving data accuracy, Guardum's data security is a competitive differentiator. Prior to the acquisition, the Company held a 33.0% investment in Guardum. The purchase price for the remaining equity of Guardum was $3.6 million, net of cash acquired of $0.1 million. The Companys acquisition of eBrevia closed on December 18, 2018. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company paid $4.5 million for the acquisition of eBrevia. An additional $1.9 million of the purchase price, which was held in the event of potential claims, was paid during the year ended December 31, 2020 pursuant to the terms of the acquisition agreement. During the year ended December 31, 2018, the Company sold its Language Solutions business for net proceeds of $77.5 million in cash, all of which was received as of December 31, 2019. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the Company paid $4.0 million related to the disposition of the Language Solutions business. OTHER INFORMATION Litigation and Contingent Liabilities For a discussion of certain litigation and contingent liabilities involving the Company, see Note 8, Commitments and Contingencies , to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. 42 Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires the extensive use of managements estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from these estimates. Estimates are used when accounting for items and matters including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, goodwill, asset valuations and useful lives, pension and income taxes. Revenue Recognition The Company manages highly-customized data and materials, such as the Exchange Act, the Securities Act and the Investment Company Act filings with the SEC on behalf of the Companys customers, manages virtual data rooms and performs XBRL and related services. Clients are provided with EDGAR filing services, XBRL compliance services and translation, editing, interpreting, proof-reading and multilingual typesetting services, among other services. The Companys software solutions include Venue, the Arc Suite software platform, ActiveDisclosure, data and analytics and others. The Company also provides digital document creation, online content management and print and distribution solutions to public and private companies, mutual funds and other regulated investment firms to serve their regulatory and compliance needs. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised services or products to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those services or products. The Company's services include software solutions and tech-enabled services whereas the Company's products are comprised of print and distribution offerings. The Companys arrangements with customers often include promises to transfer multiple services or products to a customer. Determining whether services and products are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately requires significant judgment. Certain customer arrangements have multiple performance obligations as certain promises are both capable of being distinct and are distinct within the context of the contract. Other customer arrangements have a single performance obligation as the promise to transfer the individual goods or services is not separately identifiable from other promises in the contracts, and therefore is not distinct. Billings for shipping and handling costs as well as certain postage costs and out-of-pocket expenses are recorded gross. In accordance with the practical expedient within ASC Topic 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers, the Company expenses incremental costs to obtain the contract, primarily commissions, as incurred when the amortization period of the asset is one year or less. Sales commissions associated with multi-year contracts beyond the initial year are subject to an employee service requirement and are not capitalized as they are not considered incremental costs to obtain a contract. For arrangements with multiple performance obligations, the transaction price is allocated to the separate performance obligations. As the Company provides customer specific solutions, observable standalone selling price is rarely available. As such, standalone selling price is more frequently determined using an estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct service or product, taking into consideration the historical selling price by customer for each distinct service or product, if available. These estimates may vary from the final amounts invoiced to the customer and are adjusted upon completion of all performance obligations. The timing of revenue recognition may differ from the timing of invoicing to customers and these timing differences result in unbilled receivables, contract assets or contract liabilities. Contract assets represent revenue recognized for performance obligations completed before an unconditional right to payment exists and therefore invoicing has not yet occurred. The Company generally estimates contract assets based on the historical selling price adjusted for its current experience and expected resolution of the variable consideration of the completed performance obligation. When the Company's contracts contain variable consideration, the variable consideration is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant revenue reversal will not occur in a future period. As a result, the estimated revenue and contract assets may be constrained until the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is resolved, which generally occurs in less than one year. Generally, the contract asset balance is impacted by the recognition of additional revenue, amounts invoiced to customers and changes in the level of the constraint applied to variable consideration. Unbilled receivables are recorded when there is an unconditional right to payment and invoicing has not yet occurred. The Company estimates the value of unbilled receivables based on a combination of historical customer selling price and managements assessment of realizable selling price. Unbilled receivables can vary significantly from period to period as a result of seasonality, volume and market conditions. Unbilled receivables and contract assets are included in accounts receivable on the audited Consolidated Balance Sheets. Contract liabilities consist of deferred revenue and progress billings which are included in accrued liabilities on the audited Consolidated Balance Sheets. Because substantially all of the Companys products are customized, product returns are not significant; however, the Company accrues for the estimated amount of customer credits at the time of sale. Refer to Note 1, Overview, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies , to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 43 Goodwill The Companys methodology for allocating the purchase price of acquisitions is based on established valuation techniques that reflect the consideration of several factors, including valuations performed by third-party appraisers when appropriate. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the fair value assigned to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill is either assigned to a specific reporting unit or allocated between reporting units based on the relative fair value of each reporting unit. The Company performs its goodwill impairment tests annually as of October 31, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. The Company also performs an interim review for indicators of impairment each quarter to assess whether an interim impairment review is required for any reporting unit. As part of its interim reviews, management analyzes potential changes in the value of individual reporting units based on each reporting units operating results for the period compared to expected results as of the prior years annual impairment test. In addition, management considers how other key assumptions, including discount rates and expected long-term growth rates, used in the last annual impairment test, could be impacted by changes in market conditions and economic events. Based on these interim assessments, management concluded that as of the interim periods, no events or changes in circumstances indicated that it was more likely than not that the fair value for any reporting unit had declined below its carrying amount. The Company has four reporting units for which cash flows are determinable, however, only the CM-SS, CM-CCM and IC-SS reporting units had goodwill as of October 31, 2021. In applying the goodwill impairment test, the Company has the option to perform a qualitative test (also known as Step 0) or a quantitative test (Step 1). Under the Step 0 test, the Company first assesses qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting units is less than its carrying value. If after assessing these qualitative factors, the Company determines it is not more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying value, then performing the Step 1 quantitative test is not required. Step 1 of the quantitative test requires comparison of the fair value of each of the reporting units to the respective carrying value. If the carrying value of the reporting unit is less than the fair value, no impairment exists. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeded the estimated fair value, an impairment loss is generally recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Qualitative Assessment for Impairment For the CM-CCM and IC-SS reporting units, the Company performed a qualitative assessment to determine whether it was more likely than not that the fair values of the reporting units were less than their carrying values. In performing this analysis, the Company considered various qualitative factors, including, economic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors, overall financial performance of the reporting unit and ot her entity and reporting unit specific events. Based on its qualitative assessments, management concluded that as of October 31, 2021, it was not more likely than not that the fair values of the CM-CCM and IC-SS reporting units were less than their carrying values. The goodwill balances of the CM-CCM and IC-SS reporting units as of December 31, 2021 were $253.1 million and $53.2 million, respectively. Quantitative Assessment for Impairment For the remaining reporting unit with goodwill, CM-SS, a quantitative assessment was completed. The analysis performed included estimating the fair value of the reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. The income approach requires management to estimate a number of factors, including projected future operating results, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, discount rates and the allocation of shared or corporate items. The market approach estimates fair value using comparable marketplace fair value data from within a comparable industry grouping. The Company weighted both the income and market approach equally to estimate the concluded fair value of the reporting unit. The determination of fair value in the quantitative assessment requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to: the selection of appropriate peer group companies and an appropriate market multiple, the discount rate; terminal growth rates; and forecasts of revenue, operating income, restructuring charges and capital expenditures. 44 As a result of the quantitative assessment for CM-SS, the estimated fair value exceeded the carrying value and no goodwill impairment charge was recorded for the year ended December 31, 2021. The goodwill balance of the CM-SS reporting unit as of December 31, 2021 was $103.7 million. Goodwill Impairment Assumptions Although the Company believes its estimates of fair value are reasonable, actual financial results could differ from those estimates due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making such estimates. Changes in assumptions concerning future financial results or other underlying assumptions could have a significant impact on either the fair value of the reporting units, the amount of the goodwill impairment charge, or both. One measure of the sensitivity of the amount of goodwill impairment charges to key assumptions is the amount by which each reporting unit passed (fair value exceeds carrying amount, a cushion) or failed (the carrying amount exceeds fair value) the quantitative assessment. As of October 31, 2021, the CM-SS reporting unit's estimated fair value was far in excess of the carrying value. The Company believes that its estimates of future cash flows and discount rates are reasonable, but future changes in the underlying assumptions could differ due to the inherent uncertainty in making such estimates. Additionally, lower volumes, unfavorable regulatory developments or lower than expected growth or profitability of software solutions could have a significant impact on the fair values of the reporting units. Other Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates the recoverability of other long-lived assets, including operating lease right-of-use assets (ROU), property, plant and equipment, software and definite-lived intangible assets, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset or asset group may not be recoverable. The Company assesses its asset groups for indicators of impairment on a recurring basis. Factors which could trigger an impairment review include significant underperformance relative to historical or projected future operating results, significant changes in the manner of use of the assets or the strategy for the overall business, a significant decrease in the market value of the assets or significant negative industry or economic trends. When the Company determines that the carrying value of one of its asset groups may not be recoverable based upon the existence of one or more of the indicators, the assets are assessed for impairment based on the estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset group and its eventual disposition. If the carrying value of an asset group exceeds its estimated future undiscounted cash flows, an impairment loss is recorded for the excess of the asset groups carrying value over its fair value. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $3.3 million associated with its other long-lived assets, primarily related to the demolition of an office building in the CM-CCM segment. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Plans The Companys primary defined benefit plan was frozen effective December 31, 2011. No new employees are permitted to enter the Companys frozen plan and participants will earn no additional benefits. Benefits are generally based upon years of service and compensation. These defined benefit retirement income plans are funded in conformity with the applicable government regulations. The Company funds at least the minimum amount required for all funded plans using actuarial cost methods and assumptions acceptable under government regulations. The annual income and expense amounts relating to the pension plan are based on calculations which include various actuarial assumptions including mortality expectations, discount rates and expected long-term rates of return. The Company reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis as of December 31 (or more frequently if a significant event requiring remeasurement occurs) and modifies the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is appropriate to do so. The effects of modifications are recognized immediately on the audited Consolidated Balance Sheets, but are amortized into operating earnings over future periods, with the deferred amount recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The Company believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans are reasonable based on its experience, market conditions and input from its actuaries and investment advisors. The weighted-average discount rate to determine the pension benefit obligation at December 31, 2021 was 2.9%. 45 A 1.0% change in the discount rates as of December 31, 2021 would increase/(decrease) the accumulated benefit obligation and projected benefit obligation: 1.0% 1.0% Increase Decrease (in millions) Accumulated benefit obligation $ (31.2 ) $ 37.6 Projected benefit obligation $ (31.2 ) $ 37.6 The Companys defined benefit plan has a risk management approach for its pension plan assets. The overall investment objective of this approach is to further reduce the risk of significant decreases in the plans funded status by allocating a larger portion of the plans assets to investments expected to hedge the impact of interest rate risks on the plans obligation. The expected long-term rate of return for the plan assets is based upon many factors including expected asset allocations, historical asset returns, current and expected future market conditions and risk. In addition, the Company considered the impact of the current interest rate environment on the expected long-term rate of return for certain asset classes, particularly fixed income. The target asset allocation percentage for the pension plan was approximately 70% for fixed income investments and 30% for return seeking investments. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption used to calculate net pension plan income in 2021 was 6.0% for the Companys pension plans. The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption that will be used to calculate net pension plan income in 2022 is 4.75%. A 0.25% change in the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets as of December 31, 2021 would increase/(decrease) pension plan income for the year ending December 31, 2022 as follows: Year Ending December 31, 2022 (in millions) 0.25% increase $ 0.6 0.25% decrease $ (0.6 ) Accounting for Income Taxes In the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements, income tax expense and deferred tax balances have been calculated on a separate income tax return basis. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In the ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Additionally, the Companys tax returns are subject to audit by various U.S. and foreign tax authorities. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not ( i.e ., a likelihood of more than fifty percent) that the position would be sustained upon examination by tax authorities. This recognized tax position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than fifty percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Although management believes that its estimates are reasonable, the final outcome of uncertain tax positions may be materially different from that which is reflected in the Companys historical financial statements. The Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to future deductible items, including domestic and foreign tax loss and credit carryforwards. The Company evaluates these deferred tax assets by tax jurisdiction. The utilization of these tax assets is limited by the amount of taxable income expected to be generated within the allowable carryforward period and other factors. Accordingly, management has provided a valuation allowance to reduce certain of these deferred tax assets when management has concluded that, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. If actual results differ from these estimates, or the estimates are adjusted in future periods, adjustments to the valuation allowance might need to be recorded. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, valuation allowances of $4.8 million and $7.5 million, respectively, were recorded in the Companys audited Consolidated Balance Sheets. Refer to Note 9, Income Taxes , to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail on the accounting for income taxes. 46 New Accounting Pronouncements and Pending Accounting Standards Recently issued accounting standards and their estimated effect on the Companys audited Consolidated Financial Statements are described in Note 1, Overview, Basis of Presentation and Significant Accounting Policies , to the audited Consolidated Financial Statements. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITAT IVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Market Risk The Company is exposed to potential fluctuations in earnings, cash flows, and the fair value of certain assets and liabilities due to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The Company manages exposure to these market risks through regular operating and financial activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments for risk management purposes. As a result, the Company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks. The Company was not a party to any derivative financial instrument as of December 31, 2021 and 2020. The Company discusses risk management in various places throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including discussions concerning liquidity and capital resources. Foreign Exchange Risk While the substantial majority of the Companys business is conducted within the U.S., approximately 14% of the Companys net sales during the year ended December 31, 2021 were earned outside of the U.S. The Company has operations internationally that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Hong Kong dollar, British Pound and Canadian dollar, exposing the Company to foreign currency exchange risk which may adversely impact financial results. The exposure to foreign currency movements is limited in many countries because the operating revenues and expenses of the Companys various subsidiaries and business units are substantially in the local currency of the country in which they operate. To the extent that borrowings, sales, purchases, revenues, expenses or other transactions are not in the local currency of the subsidiary, the Company is exposed to currency risk and may enter into foreign exchange spot and forward contracts to hedge the currency risk. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. For the year ended December 31, 2021, a hypothetical 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to multiple currencies would have resulted in a decrease in the Companys earnings (loss) before income taxes of approximately $2.4 million. A hypothetical 10% strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to multiple currencies as of December 31, 2021 would have resulted in a decrease in total assets of approximately $6.4 million. Interest Rate Risk The Company assesses market risk based on changes in interest rates utilizing a sensitivity analysis that measures the potential loss in earnings, fair values and cash flows based on a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates. Using this sensitivity analysis, such changes would not have a material effect on interest income or expense and cash flows. A hypothetical 10% change in yield as of December 31, 2021 would change the fair value of the Term Loan A Facility by approximately $12.4 million, or 10.0%. Credit Risk The Company is exposed to credit risk on accounts receivable balances. This risk is mitigated due to the Companys large, diverse customer base, dispersed over various geographic regions and industrial sectors. No single customer comprised more than 10% of the Companys net sales for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. The Company maintains provisions for potential credit losses and such losses to date have normally been within the Companys expectations. The Company evaluates the solvency of its customers on an ongoing basis to determine if additional allowance for expected losses needs to be recorded. Significant economic disruptions or a slowdown in the economy could result in significant additional charges. 47 Commodities The primary raw materials used by the Company and its printing vendors are paper and ink. Price increases experienced by our vendors could be passed onto the Company. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts. Management believes a hypothetical 10% change in the price of paper and other raw materials would not have a significant effect on the Companys results of operations or cash flows, as some of these costs are generally passed through to its customers. However, such an increase could have an impact on the Companys customers demand for printed products, and the Company is not able to quantify the impact of such potential change in demand on the Companys results of operations or cash flows. ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STAT EMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA The financial information required by Item 8 is located beginning on page F-1 of this Annual Report. ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AN D DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. ITEM 9A. CONTROLS A ND PROCEDURES (a) Disclosure