Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and prospects could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risk Factors Summary Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including those outside of our control, that could cause our actual results to be harmed. These risks include the following: We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful; We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing expenses in the future, and we may not be able to achieve, maintain or increase profitability in the future; We may not continue to grow on pace with historical rates; If Dashers in the United States are reclassified as employees under federal or state law, or if we fail to comply with Proposition 22 in the State of California, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected; We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected; If we fail to retain our existing merchants and consumers or acquire new merchants and consumers in a cost-effective manner, our revenue may decrease and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected; If we fail to cost-effectively attract and retain Dashers or to increase the use of our platform by existing Dashers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected; We rely on merchants on our platform for many aspects of our business, and failure by them to maintain their service levels or any changes to their operating costs could adversely affect our business; We are subject to claims, lawsuits, investigations, and various proceedings, and face potential liability, expenses for legal claims, and harm to our business based on the nature of our business; Our business is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations, including those related to worker classification, Dasher pay, and pricing and commissions, many of which are unsettled and still developing, and the costs of complying with such laws and regulations, or our failure to comply with such laws and regulations, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations and subject us to legal claims; We expect a number of factors to cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance; Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our website, mobile application, or platform could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations; The COVID-19 pandemic, or a similar public health threat, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. With the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced a significant increase in revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV. We expect our revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV growth rates to decline as the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic wane; The trading price of our Class A common stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment; The multi-class structure of our common stock and the voting agreement and irrevocable proxy (the "Voting Agreement"), between Tony Xu, Andy Fang, and Stanley Tang (the "Co-Founders"), has the effect of concentrating voting power with Tony Xu, our co-founder, Chief Executive Officer, and Chair of our board of 11 Table of Contents directors, which will limit your ability to influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval. The proposed acquisition of Wolt (the "Transaction") will not be completed unless the conditions are satisfied or waived. If the Transaction is not completed, our and Wolts future business and financial results could be negatively affected; The Transaction and the integration of Wolt may subject us to certain liabilities associated with Wolt or liabilities that may arise in connection with the completion of the Transaction; and Our and Wolts business relationships may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the Transaction, which could have an adverse effect on our and Wolt's results of operations, cash flows, and financial position; Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We have a limited operating history in an evolving industry, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. We launched operations in 2013 and we have since frequently expanded our platform features and services and changed our pricing methodologies. This limited operating history and our evolving business make it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and the risks and challenges we may encounter. These risks and challenges include our ability to: accurately forecast our revenue and plan our operating expenses; increase the number of and retain existing merchants, consumers, and Dashers using our platform; successfully compete with current and future competitors; successfully expand our business in existing markets and enter new markets and geographies; anticipate and respond to macroeconomic changes and changes in the markets in which we operate; maintain and enhance the value of our reputation and brand; adapt to rapidly evolving trends in the ways merchants and consumers interact with technology; avoid interruptions or disruptions in our service; develop and maintain a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased usage, as well as the deployment of new features and services; hire, integrate, and retain talented technology, sales, customer service, and other personnel; effectively manage rapid growth in our personnel and operations; and effectively manage our costs related to Dashers. If we fail to address the risks and difficulties that we face, including those associated with the challenges listed above as well as those described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, because we have limited historical financial data and operate in a rapidly evolving market, any predictions about our future revenue and expenses may not be as accurate as they would be if we had a longer operating history or operated in a more predictable market. We have encountered in the past, and will encounter in the future, risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies with limited operating histories in rapidly changing industries. If our assumptions regarding these risks and uncertainties, which we use to plan and operate our business, are incorrect or change, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our results of operations could differ materially from our expectations and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have a history of net losses, we anticipate increasing expenses in the future, and we may not be able to achieve, maintain or increase profitability in the future. Although we generated net income of $23 million for the three months ended June 30, 2020, we have incurred net losses in each year since our founding, we anticipate increasing expenses in the future, and we may not be able to achieve profitability again, or maintain or increase profitability in the future. We incurred a net loss of $667 million, $461 million, and $468 million in the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020, and 2021, respectively, and, as of December 31, 2020, and 2021, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.6 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. We expect our costs will increase 12 Table of Contents over time and our losses to continue as we expect to invest significant additional funds towards growing our business and operating as a public company. We have expended and expect to continue to expend substantial financial and other resources on developing our platform, including expanding our platform offerings, developing or acquiring new platform features and services, expanding into new markets and geographies, and increasing our sales and marketing efforts. These efforts may be more costly than we expect and may not result in increased revenue or growth in our business. Any failure to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with our investments and other expenses could prevent us from maintaining or increasing profitability or positive cash flow on a consistent basis. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and challenges as we encounter them, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, the stock-based compensation expense related to our restricted stock units (RSUs) and other outstanding equity awards will result in increases in our expenses in future periods. As of December 31, 2021, we have $1.9 billion of unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to RSUs and other outstanding equity awards. Additionally, we may expend substantial funds in connection with the tax withholding and remittance obligations that arise upon the initial settlement of certain of our RSUs. If we are unable to generate adequate revenue growth and manage our expenses, we may continue to incur significant losses in the future and may not be able to achieve, maintain or increase profitability. We may not continue to grow on pace with historical rates. We have grown rapidly over the last several years, and therefore our recent revenue growth rate, growth in demand for our offerings, and financial performance should not be considered indicative of our future performance. For the years ended December 31, 2019, 2020 and 2021, our revenue was $885 million, $2.9 billion, and $4.9 billion, respectively, representing a 226% and 69% year-over-year growth rate, respectively. In addition, with the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced a significant increase in revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV. The circumstances that accelerated the growth of our business stemming from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are not likely to continue, and we expect growth in consumer demand and our revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV growth rates to decline in future periods compared to growth rates in 2020 and 2021. You should not rely on our revenue or key business metrics for any previous quarterly or annual period as any indication of our revenue, revenue growth, key business metrics, or key business metrics growth in future periods. In particular, our revenue growth rate has fluctuated in prior periods. We expect our revenue growth rate to continue to fluctuate over the short term and decline in the long term. Our revenue growth rate may decline in future periods compared to growth rates in 2020 and 2021 as the size of our business grows and as we achieve higher market adoption rates. We may also experience declines in our revenue growth rate as a result of a number of factors, including slowing demand for our platform, insufficient growth in the number of merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, our failure to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities, increasing regulatory costs, and the maturation of our business, among others. We also expect to continue to make investments in the development and expansion of our business, which may not result in increased revenue or growth. In addition, we have strategically focused on suburban markets and smaller metropolitan areas since our founding because of the opportunity that these markets have presented for our local logistics platform. If the demand for local logistics platforms does not continue to grow in these markets, or if we are unable to maintain our category share in these markets, our revenue growth rate could be adversely affected. If our revenue growth rate declines, investors perceptions of our business and the trading price of our Class A common stock could be adversely affected. We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. The markets in which we operate are intensely competitive and characterized by shifting user preferences, fragmentation, and frequent introductions of new services and offerings. In particular, local food delivery logistics, the largest category of our business today, is fragmented and intensely competitive. In the United States, we compete with other local food delivery logistics companies, such as Uber Eats, Grubhub (acquired by Just Eat Takeaway in June 2021), and Postmates (acquired by Uber in December 2020), chain merchants that have their own online ordering platforms, pizza companies, such as Dominos, online ordering systems, other merchants that own and operate their own delivery fleets, grocers and grocery delivery services, and companies that provide point of sale solutions and merchant delivery services. As we continue to expand to verticals beyond food, we may compete with large Internet companies with substantial resources, users, and brand power, such as Amazon and Google. Further, as we continue to expand our presence internationally, we will also face competition from local incumbents in these markets. In addition, we compete with traditional offline ordering channels, such as take-out offerings, telephone, and paper menus that merchants distribute to consumers as well as advertising that merchants place in local publications to attract consumers. Changing traditional ordering habits is difficult, 13 Table of Contents and if merchants and consumers do not embrace the transition to local food delivery logistics as we expect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our current and future competitors may enjoy competitive advantages, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, greater category share in certain markets, market-specific knowledge, established relationships with local merchants and larger existing user bases in certain markets, more successful marketing capabilities, and substantially greater financial, technical, and other resources than we have. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow these competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in merchant, consumer, and Dasher preferences that may render our platform less attractive or obsolete. If certain merchants choose to partner with our competitors in a specific geographic market, or if merchants choose to engage exclusively with our competitors, we may lack a sufficient variety and supply of merchant options or lack access to the most popular merchants, such that our offering would become less appealing to consumers. Our competitors may also make acquisitions or establish cooperative or other strategic relationships among themselves or with others, including merchants. For example, Uber acquired Postmates in December 2020, and Just Eat Takeaway, a European local logistics platform, acquired Grubhub in June 2021, and Lyft announced a partnership with Grubhub that allows Lyfts loyalty-program members free delivery from Grubhub restaurants. In addition, certain of our competitors have acquired kitchens to enable them to produce and deliver food directly to consumers. Our competitors could also introduce new offerings with competitive price and performance characteristics or undertake more aggressive marketing campaigns than ours. Additionally, many of our competitors are well capitalized and offer discounted services, lower merchant commission rates and consumer fees, incentives for independent contractors who provide delivery services and consumer discounts and promotions, innovative platforms and offerings, and alternative pay models, which may be more attractive than those that we offer. Such competitive pressures may lead us to maintain or lower our commission rates and fees or maintain or increase our incentives, discounts, and promotions in order to remain competitive, particularly in markets where we do not have a leading position. Such efforts have negatively affected, and will continue to negatively affect, our financial performance, and there is no guarantee that such efforts will be successful. Further, the markets in which we compete have attracted significant investments from a wide range of funding sources, and we anticipate that many of our competitors will continue to be highly capitalized. These investments, along with the other competitive advantages discussed above, may allow our competitors to continue to lower their prices and fees, or increase the incentives, discounts, and promotions they offer, and compete more effectively against us. Delivery logistics services for food and the other verticals in which we compete are nascent, and we cannot guarantee that they will stabilize at a competitive equilibrium that will allow us to achieve, maintain or increase profitability. Further, merchants could determine that it is more cost effective to develop their own platforms to offer online pickup and delivery rather than use our platform. In addition, within our industry, the cost to switch between offerings is low. Consumers have a propensity to shift to the lowest-cost provider and could use more than one local logistics platform, independent contractors who provide delivery services could use multiple platforms concurrently as they attempt to maximize earnings, and merchants could prefer to use the local logistics platform that offers the lowest commission rates and adopt more than one platform to maximize their volume of orders. As we and our competitors introduce new offerings and as existing offerings evolve, we expect to become subject to additional competition. In addition, our competitors may adopt certain of our platform features or may adopt innovations that merchants, consumers, or Dashers value more highly than ours, which would render our platform less attractive and reduce our ability to differentiate our platform. Increased competition could result in, among other things, a reduction of the revenue we generate from the use of our platform, the number of platform users, the frequency of use of our platform, and our margins. For all of these reasons, we may not be able to compete successfully. If we lose existing merchants, consumers, or Dashers that utilize our platform, fail to attract new merchants, consumers, or Dashers, or are forced to reduce our commission rate or make pricing concessions as a result of increased competition, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we fail to retain our existing merchants and consumers or acquire new merchants and consumers in a cost-effective manner, our revenue may decrease and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We believe that growth of our business and revenue is dependent on our ability to continue to cost-effectively grow our platform by retaining our existing merchants and consumers and adding new merchants and consumers, including in new markets. The increase in merchants attracts more consumers to our platform and the increase in consumers attracts more merchants. This network takes time to build and may grow slower than we expect or than it has grown in the past. In particular, our national brand partnerships are a key component of our strategy to provide a wide selection for consumers. If we fail to retain either our existing merchants, especially our most popular merchants and our national brand partners, or 14 Table of Contents consumers, the value of our network would be diminished. In addition, we expect to continue to incur substantial expenses to acquire additional merchants and consumers. In expanding our operations into new markets to acquire additional merchants and consumers, we may be placed into unfamiliar competitive environments, and we may invest significant resources with the possibility that the return on such investments will not be achieved for several years or at all. We cannot assure you that the revenue from the merchants and consumers we acquire will ultimately exceed the cost of acquisition. In addition, if merchants on our platform were to cease operations, temporarily or permanently, or face financial distress or other business disruption, or if our relationships with merchants on our platform deteriorate, we may not be able to provide consumers with sufficient merchant selection. This risk is particularly pronounced with restaurants, as each year a significant percentage of restaurants go out of business, and in markets where we have fewer merchants. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in attracting and retaining popular merchants, if merchants enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors, if we fail to negotiate satisfactory terms with merchants, or if we ineffectively manage our relationships with merchants, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our agreements with partner merchants generally remain in effect until terminated by partner merchants or us. Based on the type of partner agreement, partner merchants may terminate their agreements with us by providing us at least seven (7) or thirty (30) days advance notice and such agreements do not generally provide for any exclusivity. In the event that our partner merchants terminate their agreements with us, the merchant selection available on our local logistics platform could be adversely affected. Changes to our business and to our relationships with some of our constituencies may also impact our ability to attract and retain other constituencies. For example, the increased growth of our membership product, DashPass, and how compelling this offering is to consumers, depends on our ability to sign up eligible merchants to DashPass. Additionally, many of our consumers initially access our platform to take advantage of certain promotions, such as discounts and other reduced fees. We strive to demonstrate the value of our platform and offerings to such consumers, thereby encouraging them to access our platform regularly or become a paid user of DashPass, through prompts and notifications and time-limited trials of DashPass and other offerings. However, these consumers may never convert to a paid membership to DashPass or access our platform after they take advantage of our promotions. If we are not able to continue to expand our consumer base or fail to convert our consumers to regular paying consumers, demand for our full-price or paid services, such as DashPass, and our revenue may grow slower than expected or decline. Further, certain consumers are indirect users of our platform, as they place orders through third-party websites and applications, such as Google, and merchant websites. Consumers may perceive these third-party websites and applications to be more efficient or user-friendly or have a stronger brand affinity to these third parties. If consumers increasingly use such third-party websites and applications to make orders on our platform, rather than through our website and consumer mobile application directly, our ability to establish relationships and build brand loyalty with consumers, collect information about consumer trends and preferences, and provide a customized experience based on such preferences would be adversely affected. This in turn could impact our ability to attract and retain consumers and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to cost-effectively attract and retain Dashers or to increase the use of our platform by existing Dashers, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our continued growth depends in part on our ability to cost-effectively attract and retain Dashers who satisfy our screening criteria and procedures and to increase use of our platform by existing Dashers. To attract and retain Dashers, we have, among other things, offered monetary incentives and perquisites, such as credits to be used for orders on our platform, free DoorDash-branded apparel, and access to Dasher Experience Centers where Dashers can receive assistance with pressing issues, meet other Dashers, and participate in special events. If we do not continue to provide Dashers with flexibility on our platform, compelling opportunities to earn income, and other incentive programs that are comparable or superior to those of our competitors, we may fail to attract new Dashers or retain existing Dashers or increase their use of our platform, or we may experience complaints, negative publicity, or other work stoppages that could adversely affect our users and our business. For example, if merchants and consumers choose to use competing offerings, we may lack sufficient opportunities for Dashers to earn, which may reduce the perceived utility of our platform and impact our ability to attract and retain Dashers. We also frequently test Dasher incentives with subsets of existing Dashers and potential Dashers, and these incentives could fail to attract and retain Dashers or fail to increase use of our platform by existing Dashers or could have other unintended adverse consequences. In addition, changes in certain laws and regulations, including immigration and labor and employment laws, may result in a decrease in the pool of Dashers, which may result in increased competition for Dashers or higher costs of recruitment and engagement. Other factors outside of our control, such as increases in the price of gasoline, vehicles, or insurance, may also reduce the number of Dashers that utilize our platform or the use of our platform by Dashers. Our agreements with Dashers generally remain in effect until terminated by Dashers or us. Dashers may terminate their agreements with us by providing us at least seven (7) days advance notice and such agreements do not provide for any exclusivity. If we fail to attract Dashers or retain existing Dashers on 15 Table of Contents favorable terms, if we fail to increase the use of our platform by existing Dashers, or if Dashers terminate their agreements with us, we may not be able to meet the demand of merchants and consumers and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We rely on merchants on our platform for many aspects of our business, and to the extent they fail to maintain their service levels or increase the prices they charge consumers on our platform, either as a result of increased operating costs, or to offset the commission we charge, our business would be adversely affected. We rely on merchants on our platform, including small and local independent businesses, to provide quality goods to our consumers at expected price points. If these merchants experience difficulty servicing consumer demand, producing quality goods at affordable prices, or meeting our other requirements or standards, or experience problems with their point-of-sale or other technologies, our reputation and brand could be damaged. Further, an increase in merchant operating costs could cause merchants on our platform to raise prices, renegotiate commission rates, or cease operations, which could in turn adversely affect our operational costs and efficiency, and if merchants on our platform were to cease operations, temporarily or permanently, we may not be able to provide consumers with sufficient merchant selection, which we expect would reduce the number of consumers on our platform. Many of the factors affecting merchant operating costs, including off-premise costs and prices, are beyond the control of merchants and include inflation, costs associated with the goods provided, labor and employee benefit costs, rent costs, and energy costs. If merchants pass along these increased operating costs and increase prices on our platform, order volume may decline. Additionally, some items on our platform are listed at higher prices relative to their in-store prices. This practice can negatively affect consumer perception of our platform and could result in a decline in consumers or order volume, or both, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We expect a number of factors to cause our results of operations to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our results of operations have historically varied from period to period, and we expect that our results of operations will continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our results of operations on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: our ability to attract and retain merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform in a cost-effective manner; our ability to accurately forecast revenue and appropriately plan expenses; the effects of increased competition on our business; our ability to successfully expand in existing markets and successfully enter new markets; changes in consumer behavior with respect to on-demand delivery; increases in marketing, sales, and other operating expenses that we may incur to grow and acquire new merchants, consumers, and Dashers; our business mix between Marketplace and Drive; the proportion of consumers that are members of DashPass; the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending on on-demand delivery; the seasonality of our business, particularly with respect to local food delivery logistics, including the effect of academic calendars on college campuses and seasonal patterns in restaurant dining; the impact of weather on our business; our ability to maintain an adequate rate of growth and effectively manage that growth; our ability to maintain and increase traffic to our platform; the effects of changes in search engine placement and prominence; our ability to keep pace with technology changes in our industry; the success of our sales and marketing efforts; 16 Table of Contents the effects of negative publicity on our business, reputation, or brand; our ability to protect, maintain, and enforce our intellectual property; costs associated with defending claims, including intellectual property infringement claims, and related judgments or settlements; changes in governmental or other regulations affecting our business, including regulations regarding the classification of Dashers that utilize our platform and regulations impacting the commission rates we charge to merchants; interruptions in service and any related impact on our business, reputation, or brand; the attraction and engagement of qualified employees and key personnel; our ability to choose and effectively manage third-party service providers; the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic or recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic on consumer behavior and our order volumes, as well as the impact of changes in the response of governments and private industry to COVID-19; the impact that price controls on local food delivery logistics platforms imposed by various jurisdictions, and any associated increase in the fees we charge to consumers, have on our operating results; the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting; the impact of payment processor costs and procedures; changes in the online payment transfer rate; and changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities. The variability and unpredictability of our results of operations could result in our failure to meet our expectations or those of analysts that cover us or investors with respect to revenue or other results of operations for a particular period. If we fail to meet or exceed such expectations, the market price of our Class A common stock could fall substantially, and we could face costly lawsuits, including securities class action suits. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our website, mobile application, or platform could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. It is critical to our success that merchants, consumers, and Dashers be able to access our platform at all times. Our systems, or those of third parties upon which we rely, may experience service interruptions or degradation or other performance problems because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, distributed denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, infrastructure changes, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, ransomware, malware, or other events. Our systems also may be subject to break-ins, sabotage, theft, and intentional acts of vandalism, including by our own employees. Some of our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our business interruption insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. We have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce or affect the speed or functionality of our platform. These system failures generally occur either as a result of software updates being deployed with unexpected errors or as a result of temporary infrastructure failures related to storage, network, or compute capacity being exhausted. These events have resulted in losses in revenue, though such losses have not been material to date. System failures in the future could result in significant losses of revenue. Moreover, we have in the past voluntarily provided credits to consumers on our platform to compensate them for the inconvenience caused by a system failure or similar event, including for orders that are delivered late or orders that are cancelled by us or the merchant, and may voluntarily provide similar such credits in the future. In addition, the affected user could seek monetary recourse from us for their losses and such claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Further, in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the availability, speed, or other functionality of our platform could adversely affect our business and reputation and could result in the loss of users. 17 Table of Contents The COVID-19 pandemic, or a similar public health threat, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. With the COVID-19 pandemic, we experienced a significant increase in revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV. We expect our revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV growth rates to decline as the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic wane. The current outbreak of COVID-19 has globally resulted in loss of life, business closures, restrictions on travel, and widespread cancellation of social gatherings. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic, or recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, impacts our business is highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. Factors that may impact our business include: new information which may emerge concerning the severity of the disease; the duration and spread of the outbreak; the severity of travel restrictions imposed by geographic areas in which we operate, mandatory or voluntary business closures; regulatory actions taken in response to the pandemic, which may impact merchant operations, consumer and merchant pricing, Dasher pay, and our product offerings; other business disruptions that affect our workforce; the availability of effective vaccines and the speed at which they can be administered to the public; the continued emergence of new strains of COVID-19; the impact on capital and financial markets; actions taken throughout the world, including in markets in which we operate, to contain the COVID-19 outbreak or treat its impact, and; potential changes to consumer behavior or spending patterns as markets recover. In connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, we have allowed many of our employees to work remotely, which may impact productivity and otherwise disrupt our business operations. In addition, the current outbreak of COVID-19 has resulted in a widespread global health crisis and adversely affected global economies and financial markets, and similar public health threats could do so in the future. Such events have impacted, and could in the future impact, demand for merchants and consumer purchase patterns, which in turn, could adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. With the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced a significant increase in revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV due to increased consumer demand for delivery, more merchants using our platform to facilitate both delivery and take-out, and improved efficiency of our local logistics platform. The circumstances that have accelerated the growth of our business stemming from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are not likely to continue, and we expect our revenue, Total Orders, and Marketplace GOV growth rates to decline in future periods compared to growth rates in 2020 and 2021. Furthermore, if a virus or other disease is transmitted by human contact, as is the case with COVID-19, our employees and any constituent of our network may become infected, or may choose, or be advised, to avoid any contact with others, any of which may adversely affect our ability to provide our platform and for merchants, consumers, and Dashers to use our platform. In addition, shelter-in-place orders and similar regulations impact merchants ability to operate their businesses, consumers ability to pick up orders, and Dashers ability to make deliveries during certain times, or at all. Viruses or other diseases transmitted by human contact may in the future cause a temporary closure of merchants businesses, either due to government mandate or voluntary preventative measures, and many of our merchants may not be able to withstand prolonged interruptions to their businesses, and may be forced to go out of business. Even if merchants are able to continue to operate their businesses, many may operate with limited hours, menus, and capacity and other limitations. Any limitations on or disruptions or closures of merchants businesses could impact the selection available on our platform, disrupt our ability to operate our local logistics platform, and adversely affect our business. Even if a virus or other disease does not spread significantly and such measures are not implemented, the perceived risk of infection or significant health risk may adversely affect our business. Merchants may be perceived as unsafe during such public health threats, even for order delivery or pickup. If the services offered through our platform or at other businesses in our industry become a significant risk for transmitting COVID-19 or similar public health threats, or if there is a public perception that such risk exists, demand for the use of our platform would be adversely affected. Any negative impact on consumers willingness or ability to order delivery or complete a Pickup order, or on Dashers willingness or ability to make deliveries, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or a similar public health threat has an impact on our business, it is likely to also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. Our pricing methodologies are impacted by a number of factors and ultimately may not be successful in attracting and retaining merchants, consumers, and Dashers. Price controls on local food delivery logistics platforms will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Demand for our platform is highly sensitive to a range of factors, including the price of the goods delivered, the amount of compensation and gratuities required to attract and retain Dashers, incentives paid to Dashers, and the fees and commissions we charge merchants and consumers. Many factors, including operating costs, legal and regulatory requirements, constraints or changes, and our current and future competitors pricing and marketing strategies, could significantly affect our pricing strategies. For example, in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, over fifty (50) jurisdictions across the United States, including many jurisdictions in California, have implemented temporary price controls on local food delivery logistics platforms. In addition, there are legislative proposals to make price controls on food delivery logistics platforms permanent, and we expect other such proposals to be made. In addition, some jurisdictions have enacted permanent price controls, including San Francisco, California, New York, New York, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and Minneapolis, Minnesota (although the latter two jurisdictions price restrictions do not apply when certain conditions are met). We filed litigation challenging the San Francisco and New York price controls as unconstitutional and in excess of each respective jurisdictions police power. There are legislative proposals in additional jurisdictions to make price controls on food delivery logistics platforms permanent, and we expect other such proposals to be made in the future. These price controls have had in the past, and are likely to have in the future, an adverse effect on our results of operations. These price controls have also caused, and may in the future cause, us to increase the fees we charge to consumers, though we are aware of a few jurisdictions that have adopted limits or explicit prohibitions against doing so in connection with price controls. An increase in the fees we charge to consumers could result in reduced demand for our services by consumers. In addition, certain jurisdictions may challenge the way in which we categorize or collect such increased consumer fees on our platform. For example, the City of Chicago has challenged such fees as confusing and/or misleading to consumers. Although temporary price controls in some jurisdictions in which we operate have expired, with the continued duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, we expect existing price controls to persist in the near term and for additional jurisdictions where we operate to implement similar price controls. If any of these events occur, or if price controls are retained after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be further adversely affected. In addition, regulatory scrutiny or action may create different or conflicting obligations on us from one jurisdiction to another, which creates additional challenges to managing our business. Certain of our competitors offer, or may in the future offer, lower-priced or a broader range of offerings. Similarly, certain competitors may use marketing strategies that enable them to attract or retain new merchants, consumers, and Dashers at a lower cost than us. There can be no assurance that we will not be forced, through competition, regulation, or otherwise, to reduce the price of delivery for consumers, increase the incentives we pay to Dashers that utilize our platform, or further reduce the fees and commissions we charge merchants, or to increase our marketing and other expenses to attract and retain merchants, consumers, and Dashers in response to competitive pressures. We have launched, and may in the future launch, new pricing strategies and initiatives, such as membership products like DashPass, and Dasher or consumer loyalty programs, or modify existing pricing methodologies or the way in which fees, taxes, or similar items are presented on our platform, any of which may not ultimately be successful in attracting and retaining merchants, consumers, or Dashers or which may result in lower commissions or fees, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, on April 27, 2021, we changed our merchant pricing models to better support certain U.S. restaurant partners, including by offering them a choice of three different delivery commission rates tied to varying levels of marketing support and services. Further, our consumers price sensitivity may vary by geographic location, and as we expand, our pricing methodologies may not enable us to compete effectively in these locations. In particular, our continued international expansion may require us to change our pricing strategies and to adjust to different cultural norms, including with respect to consumer pricing and gratuities. While we do and will attempt to set prices based on our prior operating experience and merchant, consumer, and Dasher feedback and engagement levels, our assessments may not be accurate or there may be errors in the technology used in our pricing and we could be underpricing or overpricing our services. In addition, if the services on our platform change, then we may need to revise our pricing methodologies. We face certain risks associated with our pay model for Dashers. Our pay model for Dashers, particularly with respect to tips for Dashers, has previously led, and may continue to lead, to negative publicity, lawsuits, arbitration demands, and government inquiries. For example, under our former Dasher pay model, we would increase the amount paid to Dashers on a delivery in cases when a consumer left little or no tip. Although this boost pay was intended to help Dashers by making every delivery economically worthwhile, it also had the unintended effect of causing some people to be under the misimpression that not all tips were being received by Dashers. 19 Table of Contents Government authorities have also brought claims against us related to our former Dasher pay model and may bring similar claims in the future. For example, on November 19, 2019, the District of Columbia filed an action in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia alleging violations of the District of Columbias Consumer Protection Procedures Act with respect to our former Dasher pay model and on November 30, 2020, the court entered a consent order and judgment to resolve the litigation. We could face similar claims related to our former Dasher pay model from other government authorities in the future. The incorrect understanding or perception of our former Dasher pay model by some led, and may continue to lead, to some consumers providing lower tips, or no tips at all, to Dashers, which could impact the amount that Dashers are able to earn on our platform and our ability to attract and retain Dashers. We have also launched, and may in the future launch, certain changes to the rates and fee structure for Dashers that utilize our platform, which may not ultimately be successful in attracting and retaining Dashers. For example, in September 2019, we changed our Dasher pay model to include (i) a base pay amount for each order, which depends on the estimated time, distance, and desirability of the order, (ii) promotions for orders that meet certain conditions, including bonuses for Dashers who meet specific goals, and (iii) tips from consumers, which Dashers receive 100% of on top of base pay and promotions. We increased the amount we pay to Dashers per order when we changed to our current pay model, but our current Dasher pay model may also cause less consistency in earnings across deliveries in some cases. Further, this pay model may lead to negative publicity related to perceptions of the complexity of the pay model, inconsistency in earnings for Dashers, and lack of flexibility in the ways consumers can leave tips, and as a result, we may not be successful in attracting and retaining merchants, consumers, and Dashers. In the future, based on a variety of factors, including legal and regulatory changes, we may change our pay model again. Our current pay model, and any future changes to our pay model or our ability to cost-effectively acquire and retain Dashers, could result in an increase to the fees we charge to consumers, which in turn could affect our ability to attract and retain consumers, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, while we maintain that Dashers that utilize our platform are independent contractors, there is a risk that Dashers may be reclassified as employees under federal or state law. As discussed further below, we have been involved in and continue to be involved in numerous legal proceedings related to Dasher classification, and such proceedings have increased in volume since the California Supreme Courts 2018 ruling in Dynamex Operations West, Inc.v. Superior Court (Dynamex), including an action brought by the San Francisco District Attorney in June 2020. In addition, some jurisdictions are considering implementing standards similar to the test set forth in Dynamex to determine worker classification. For example, the California Legislature passed AB 5, which was signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom on September 18, 2019 and became effective on January 1, 2020. AB 5 codified the Dynamex standard regarding contractor classification, expanded its application, and created numerous carve-outs. We, along with certain other companies, supported a campaign for a 2020 ballot initiative (Proposition 22) to address AB 5 and preserve flexibility for Dashers, which was approved by voters in November 2020 and went into effect in December 2020. However, on August 20, 2021, the Alameda County Superior Court in California issued an order finding that the entirety of Proposition 22 is unenforceable. The California Attorney General, the Protect App-Based Drivers and Services coalition and individual sponsors of Proposition 22 have filed notices of appeal to the California Court of Appeal. Proposition 22 remains in effect pending further court proceedings. Under Proposition 22, certain provisions regarding compensation, along with certain other requirements, are now applicable to us and Dashers in California and our costs related to Dashers have increased in California. To offset a portion of these increased costs, we do in certain circumstances charge higher fees and commissions, which could result in lower order volumes over time and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, several jurisdictions where we operate may be considering adopting legislation, or we may propose or support legislation, ballot initiatives, or other legislative processes in certain jurisdictions, that would pair worker flexibility and independence with new protections and benefits, and we are engaged in ongoing discussions with Dashers, policy makers and other stakeholders regarding the future of the type of work that Dashers perform. To the extent other jurisdictions adopt such legislation, or we propose or support legislation, ballot initiatives or other legislative processes in certain jurisdictions, we would expect our costs related to Dashers in such jurisdictions to increase and we could experience lower order volumes in such jurisdictions if we charge higher fees and commissions as a result of such laws, and our results of operations would be adversely impacted. For example, we, along with certain other companies, app-based drivers, and community groups, are supporting a campaign for a 2022 ballot initiative in Massachusetts that would pair worker flexibility and independence with new protections and benefits for Dashers in Massachusetts. Even with the passage of Proposition 22 and similar legislation, such initiatives and legislation could still be challenged and subject to litigation. For example, certain plaintiffs filed a claim in California Superior Court challenging the constitutionality of Proposition 22, which resulted in the Alameda County Superior Courts order noted above (which is being appealed), and similar challenges may also be filed. In addition, we could face further challenges to the classification of Dashers that utilize our platform as independent contractors as other states where we operate are considering adopting similar legislation or regulations. A reclassification of Dashers or delivery service providers using a local logistics platform as 20 Table of Contents employees could require us to revise our pricing methodologies and pay model to account for such a change to Dasher classification, and to make other substantive internal adjustments to account for any transition of a Dasher to an employment position, which would have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are committed to expanding our platform and enhancing the DoorDash experience, which may not maximize short-term financial results and may yield results that conflict with the markets expectations, which could result in our stock price being adversely affected. We are passionate about expanding our platform and continually enhancing the DoorDash experience, with a focus on driving long-term engagement through innovation, the expansion of our platform and services, and providing high-quality support, which may not necessarily maximize short-term financial results. We frequently make business decisions that may reduce our short-term financial results if we believe that the decisions are consistent with our goals to improve the DoorDash experience, which we believe will improve our financial results over the long term. These decisions may not be consistent with the short-term expectations of our stockholders and may not produce the long-term benefits that we expect, in which case our growth, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Since 2013, we have experienced rapid growth in our employee headcount, the number of users on our platform, our geographic reach, and our operations, and we expect to continue to experience growth in the future. For example, employee growth has occurred both at our San Francisco headquarters and in a number of our offices across the United States and internationally. This growth has placed, and may continue to place, substantial demands on management and our operational and financial infrastructure. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in errors in our consolidated financial statements that could result in a restatement of our financial statements, and could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations, any of which could diminish investor confidence in us and could cause a decline in the price of our Class A common stock. We will need to continue to improve our operational and financial infrastructure in order to manage our business effectively and accurately report our results of operations. A majority of our employees have been with us for fewer than twenty-four (24) months. We have made, and intend to continue to make, substantial investments in our technology, customer service, and sales and marketing infrastructure. Our ability to manage our growth effectively and to integrate new employees, technologies, and acquisitions into our existing business will require us to continue to expand our operational and financial infrastructure and to continue to effectively integrate, develop, and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the beneficial aspects of our culture. Continued growth could challenge our ability to develop and improve our operational, financial, and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures, recruit, train, and retain highly skilled personnel, and maintain user satisfaction. Additionally, if we do not manage the growth of our business and operations effectively, the quality of our platform and the efficiency of our operations could suffer, which could adversely affect our reputation and brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Growth of our business will depend on a strong reputation and brand and any failure to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain or expand our base of merchants, consumers, and Dashers and our ability to increase their level of engagement. We believe that building a strong reputation and brand and continuing to increase the strength of the local network effects among the merchants, consumers, and Dashers that use our platform are critical to our ability to attract and retain all three constituencies and increase their engagement with our platform and will only become more important as competition in our industry further intensifies. Successfully maintaining, protecting, and enhancing our reputation and brand and increasing the local network effects of our platform will depend on the success of our marketing efforts, our ability to provide consistent, high-quality services and support, and our ability to successfully secure, maintain, and defend our rights to use the DoorDash mark, our logo, and other trademarks important to our brand, as well as a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control. We believe that our paid marketing initiatives have been critical in promoting awareness of our platform, which in turn drives new consumer growth and engagement, but future marketing efforts may not be successful or cost-effective. Our consumers have a wide variety of options for delivery of goods, including other local logistics platforms and services, and consumer preferences may also change from time to time. To expand our consumer base, we must appeal to new consumers who may have historically used other methods of delivering goods or other local logistics platforms. 21 Table of Contents Our reputation, brand, and ability to build trust with existing and new merchants, consumers, and Dashers may be adversely affected by complaints and negative publicity about us, our platform, merchants, and Dashers that utilize our platform or our competitors platforms, even if factually incorrect or based on isolated incidents. Negative perception of our platform or company may harm our reputation, brand, and local network effects, including as a result of: complaints or negative publicity about us, our platform, services or items provided through our platform, Dashers, merchants, consumers, or our policies and guidelines, including Dasher pay; missing or incorrect items, inaccurate orders, or cancelled orders; fraud; illegal, negligent, reckless, or otherwise inappropriate behavior by users or third parties; food tampering or inappropriate or unsanitary food preparation, handling, or delivery; a pandemic or an outbreak of disease, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, in which constituencies of our network become infected; a failure to provide Dashers with a sufficient level of orders or to pay Dashers competitively; a failure to offer consumers competitive pricing and delivery times; a failure to provide a range of delivery options sought by consumers; a failure to provide environmentally friendly delivery and packaging options; actual or perceived disruptions to or defects in our platform or similar incidents, such as privacy or data security breaches or other security incidents, site outages, payment disruptions, or other incidents that impact the reliability of our services; litigation over, or investigations by regulators into, our platform; users lack of awareness of, or compliance with, our policies; changes to our policies that users or others perceive as overly restrictive, unclear, inconsistent with our values or mission, or not clearly articulated; a failure to comply with legal, tax, privacy, and regulatory requirements; changes to our practices with respect to collection and use of consumer, merchant and Dasher data; a failure to enforce our policies in a manner that users perceive as effective, fair, and transparent; a failure to operate our business in a way that is consistent with our values and mission; inadequate or unsatisfactory user support experiences; illegal or otherwise inappropriate behavior by our management team or other employees or contractors; negative responses by merchants, consumers, or Dashers to new services on our platform; a failure to register and prevent misappropriation of our trademarks; perception of our treatment of employees, merchants, consumers, and Dashers and our response to employee, merchant, consumer, and Dasher sentiment related to political or social causes or actions of management; or any of the foregoing with respect to our competitors, to the extent such resulting negative perception affects the publics perception of us or our industry as a whole. If we do not successfully develop, protect, and enhance our reputation and brand and increase the local network effects of our platform, our business may not grow, and we may not be able to compete effectively. If existing and new merchants and consumers do not perceive the delivery services provided by Dashers that utilize our platform to be reliable, safe, and affordable, or if we fail to offer new and relevant services and features on our platform, we may not be able to attract or retain merchants, consumers, or Dashers or to increase their use of our platform, any of which we expect would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, changes we may make to enhance and improve our platform and balance the needs and interests of merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform may be viewed positively from one groups perspective but negatively from another groups perspective, or may not be viewed positively by any group. If we fail to balance the interests of merchants, consumers, and Dashers or make changes that they view negatively, merchants, consumers, and Dashers may stop or reduce usage of our platform or use alternative platforms, any of which could adversely affect our reputation, brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Unfavorable media coverage could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are the subject of media coverage from time to time. Unfavorable publicity regarding our business model, pay model, user support, technology, platform changes, platform quality, delivery issues, privacy or security practices, management team or the safety of Dashers, merchants and consumers using our platform could adversely affect our reputation. Such negative publicity could also harm the size of our network and the engagement and loyalty of merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, we have previously received negative media coverage related to the manner in which Dashers were compensated, in particular with respect to gratuities, concerns related to food tampering and general food safety and quality, and concerns regarding the safety of Dashers, consumers and merchants using our platform, which has adversely affected our reputation and brand. As our platform continues to scale and public awareness of our brand increases, any future issues that draw media coverage could have an amplified negative effect on our reputation and brand. In addition, negative publicity related to key brands or influencers that we have partnered with may damage our reputation, even if the publicity is not directly related to us. Any negative publicity that we may receive could diminish confidence in, and the use of, our platform, which could adversely affect our business. We have been subject to cybersecurity incidents in the past and anticipate being the target of future attacks. Any actual or perceived cybersecurity incident or security or privacy breach could interrupt our operations, harm our brand, subject us to claims, litigation, regulatory investigations and liability, and adversely affect our reputation, brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our business involves the collection, storage, processing, and transmission of personal data and other sensitive and proprietary data of our merchants, consumers, and Dashers. Additionally, we maintain sensitive and proprietary data relating to our business, such as our own proprietary data and personal data relating to our employees. An increasing number of organizations, including large online and off-line merchants and businesses, other large Internet companies, financial institutions, and government institutions, have disclosed breaches of their information security systems and other information security incidents, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks. In addition, these incidents could originate on our vendors platforms, vendors systems, or with our vendors personnel, which could then be leveraged to access our website, platforms, and proprietary data, including personal data. We and our vendors have previously experienced these types of breaches and other incidents. For example, in September 2019, we reported an incident affecting one of our vendors that resulted in the unauthorized acquisition of certain Dashers driver licenses as well as data related to certain of our consumers. This incident has resulted in regulatory inquiries and is the subject of litigation. To date, this incident has not resulted in a material loss of revenue or the incurrence of material expenses. We have undertaken steps to enhance our data security and governance program, which include adding additional protective security layers around the data, improving security protocols that govern access to our systems, and bringing in outside expertise to increase our ability to identify and repel threats. We cannot assure you that all potential causes of the incident have been identified and remediated or will not lead to recurrence or similar incidents. While we maintain cyber insurance that may help provide coverage for these types of incidents, we cannot assure you that our insurance will be adequate to cover costs and liabilities related to this incident or to any incidents which may occur in the future. In addition, in December 2021, a vulnerability in a popular logging software, Log4j, was publicly announced. If left unpatched, the Log4j vulnerability could be exploited to allow unauthorized actors to execute code remotely on a system using Log4j. We have taken steps to ensure these vulnerabilities have been patched in our systems, but we cannot guarantee that all vulnerabilities have been patched in every system upon which we are dependent or that additional critical vulnerabilities of Log4j or other open-source software upon which we rely will not be discovered. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage information systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against us or our vendors, we and our vendors may be unable to anticipate or prevent these attacks, react in a timely manner, or implement adequate preventive measures, and we and our vendors may face delays in our detection or remediation of, or other responses to, security breaches and other incidents. Unauthorized parties have in the past gained access, and may in the future gain access, to systems or facilities used in our business through various means, including gaining unauthorized access into our systems or facilities or those of merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform, attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, merchants, consumers, Dashers, vendors, or others into disclosing user names, passwords, payment card information, or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology, or IT, systems, or attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, merchants, or others into manipulating payment information, resulting in the fraudulent transfer of funds to bad actors. Moreover, with many of our employees and contractors and many employees and contractors of vendors currently working remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we may be exposed to increased risks of security breaches or incidents. 23 Table of Contents In addition, users on our platform could have vulnerabilities on their own devices that are entirely unrelated to our systems and platform but could mistakenly attribute their own vulnerabilities to us. Further, breaches experienced by other companies may also be leveraged against us. For example, credential stuffing attacks are becoming increasingly common and sophisticated actors can mask their attacks, making them increasingly difficult to identify and prevent. We have previously experienced incidents of fraud on our platform that we believe involve credential stuffing attacks, which we have been unable to detect or prevent. Certain efforts may be state-sponsored or supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more difficult to detect, remediate, and otherwise respond to. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect the personal data of merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform, protect our systems, prevent data loss, and prevent other security breaches and security incidents, these security measures have not fully protected our systems in the past and cannot guarantee security in the future. The IT and infrastructure used in our business may be vulnerable to cyberattacks, viruses, social engineering, bugs, defects, vulnerabilities, denial of service, credential stuffing, ransomware and other malware and malicious code, employee error and malfeasance, and other sources of disruption or interruption of such IT and infrastructure, or security breaches or incidents, and unauthorized parties may be able to access data, including personal data and other sensitive and proprietary data of merchants, consumers, and Dashers, our employees personal data, or our other sensitive and proprietary data, accessible through those systems. Although we have policies restricting the access to the personal data we store, there is a risk that these policies may not be effective in all cases. Any actual or perceived breach of privacy, or any actual or perceived security breach or other incidents, could interrupt our operations, result in our platform being unavailable, result in loss or improper access to, unavailability of, acquisition, disclosure, modification or other processing of, data, result in fraudulent transfer of funds, harm our reputation, brand, and competitive position, damage our relationships with third-party partners, or result in claims, regulatory investigations, and proceedings and significant legal, regulatory, and financial exposure, including ongoing monitoring by regulators, and any such incidents or any perception that our security measures are inadequate could lead to loss of merchant, consumer, or Dasher confidence in, or decreased use of, our platform, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any actual or perceived breach of privacy or security, or other security incident, impacting any entities with which we share or disclose data (including, for example, our third-party technology providers and vendors) could have similar effects. Our ability to monitor our vendors security measures is limited. There have been and may continue to be significant supply chain attacks, and we cannot guarantee that our or our vendors systems have not been breached or that they do not contain exploitable defects, bugs, or vulnerabilities that could result in an incident, breach, or other disruption to, our or our vendors systems. Also, applicable laws or regulations could force us to disclose our intellectual property, such as our trade secrets and other proprietary data. For example, the City Council of New York passed a law effective in December 2021 that would require us to provide customer data, such as names, phone numbers, email addresses and delivery addresses, to restaurant merchants for orders on our platform in New York City, unless a customer opts out. Furthermore, this could result in certain consumers receiving unsolicited outreach from merchants as a result of this data sharing, which could lead to a negative consumer experience. We have filed a lawsuit challenging this law, and New York City has agreed not to enforce the law against us during the pendency of the litigation. If our lawsuit is not successful, complying with this law could have an adverse effect on our intellectual property or result in harm to our reputation or brand. Further, any cyberattacks or actual or perceived security or privacy breaches or other incidents directed at, or suffered by, our competitors could reduce confidence in our industry as a whole and, as a result, reduce confidence in us. We also expect to incur significant costs in an effort to detect and prevent privacy and security breaches and other incidents, and we may face increased costs and expend substantial resources in the event of an actual or perceived privacy or security breach or other incident. Additionally, defending against claims or litigation based on any privacy or security breach or incident, regardless of their merit, could be costly and divert managements attention. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be adequate for liabilities incurred relating to any privacy or security breach or incident, that insurance will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceed available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. The markets for local food delivery logistics and our other delivery logistics services are still in relatively early stages of growth, and if these markets do not continue to grow, grow slower than we expect, or fail to grow as large as we expect, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents The local food delivery logistics market has grown rapidly since we launched our local logistics platform in 2013, but it is still relatively new, and it is uncertain to what extent market acceptance will continue to grow, if at all. In addition, the market for the other delivery logistics services we facilitate, such as grocery delivery services, is also relatively nascent, and it is uncertain whether demand for grocery delivery services or other delivery logistics services we may facilitate in the future will continue to grow and achieve wide market acceptance, if at all. Our success will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of people to widely adopt local food delivery logistics and the other delivery logistics services we facilitate. If the public does not perceive these services as beneficial, or chooses not to adopt them as a result of concerns regarding safety, affordability, or for other reasons, whether as a result of incidents on our platform or on our competitors platforms or otherwise, or instead adopts alternative solutions that may arise, then the market for our platform may not further develop, may develop slower than we expect, or may not achieve the growth potential we expect, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activity of merchants, consumers, or Dashers, whether or not occurring while using our platform, could expose us to liability and adversely affect our business, brand, financial condition, and results of operations. Illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activities by merchants, consumers, or Dashers, including the activities of individuals who may have previously engaged with, but are not then receiving or providing services offered through, our platform or individuals who are intentionally impersonating consumers or Dashers or the activities of Dashers while making deliveries to our consumers, have occurred, and in the future may occur, which could adversely affect our brand, business, financial condition, and results of operations. These activities include food tampering, inappropriate or unsanitary food preparation, handling, or delivery, assault, battery, theft, unauthorized use of credit and debit cards or bank accounts, sharing of consumer accounts, registering Dasher accounts with us with stolen personal information, consumer identity theft, and other misconduct. Such activities may result in injuries, property damage, or loss of life for consumers and third parties, or business interruptions, reputational and brand damage, or other significant liabilities for us. We have in the past incurred, and may in the future incur, losses from various types of fraud, including use of stolen or fraudulent credit card data, referral fraud by both consumers and Dashers, fraud with respect to background checks, fraud by employees or agents relating to payments or credits on our platform, attempted payments by consumers with insufficient funds, fraud committed by consumers in concert with Dashers, and account takeovers of Dasher accounts by bad actors. Bad actors use increasingly sophisticated methods to engage in illegal activities involving personal information, such as unauthorized use of another persons identity, account information, or payment information and unauthorized acquisition or use of credit or debit card details, bank account information, and mobile phone numbers. For example, bad actors have created Dasher accounts using other peoples stolen personal identifying information to commit fraud on our platform and for other illicit purposes. Among other things, this has caused Form 1099s to be incorrectly sent to individuals who are not performing services as Dashers. We have launched a series of initiatives and products changes to help prevent these practices. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for orders facilitated on our platform with fraudulent credit card data, even if the associated financial institution approved the credit card transaction. Despite measures we have taken to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent or other malicious activity on our platform, we cannot guarantee that any of our measures will be effective or will scale efficiently with our business. Our failure to adequately detect or prevent fraudulent transactions could harm our reputation or brand, result in litigation or regulatory action, and lead to expenses that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we have implemented various measures intended to anticipate, identify, and address the risk of these types of activities, these measures may not adequately address or prevent all illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activity by these parties from occurring and such conduct could expose us to liability, including through litigation, or adversely affect our brand or reputation. For example, Dashers whose accounts we have deactivated from our platform may nevertheless find a way to create a new account on our platform and perform deliveries. At the same time, if the measures we have taken to guard against these illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activities, such as our requirement that all Dashers undergo a background check, are too restrictive and inadvertently prevent Dashers and consumers otherwise in good standing from using our platform, or if we are unable to implement and communicate these measures fairly and transparently or are perceived to have failed to do so, the growth and engagement of the number of Dashers and consumers on our platform and their use of our platform could be adversely affected. In addition, our ability to adopt measures to anticipate, identify, and address illegal, improper, or otherwise inappropriate activity may be particularly limited with our Self-Delivery service, which enables merchants on our Marketplace to fulfill orders with their own delivery fleets. These delivery providers are retained directly by merchants, and as a result, we do not conduct background checks on such providers or engage in any of the other activities that are a part of the typical onboarding process for Dashers on 25 Table of Contents our platform. Further, any negative publicity related to the foregoing, whether such incident occurred on our platform or on our competitors platforms, could adversely affect our reputation and brand or public perception of our industry as a whole, which could negatively affect demand for platforms like ours, and potentially lead to increased regulatory or litigation exposure. Any of the foregoing risks could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our platform facilitates deliveries to consumers from non-partner merchants, and we face certain risks associated with these deliveries. We aim to have a broad selection of merchants on our platform, which includes facilitating deliveries to consumers from non-partner merchants. Facilitating deliveries from non-partner merchants is generally less operationally efficient than doing so with partner merchants, as our platform is not integrated with non-partner merchants systems. For example, for orders with most partner merchants, Dashers have an expedited checkout process that does not require a separate payment in store, but for orders with non-partner merchants, Dashers may have to place and pay for the order separately in store. As a result, we generally experience higher operational expenses for each order, more time and manual processes needed to place each order, and a higher likelihood of errors. Further, we sometimes unintentionally incorrectly price non-partner goods on our platform as a result of inaccuracies that occur when capturing menu prices. The occurrence of any errors, delays with orders, or other problems associated with facilitating deliveries with non-partner merchants could create a negative perception of our platform and cause damage to our reputation and brand. While our goal is to convert non-partner merchants into partner merchants, our inability to do so at a sufficiently high rate, or at all, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, some non-partner merchants may not want to be included on our platform and may request to be removed. While we honor these requests, removing non-partner merchants impacts our ability to provide a broad selection of merchants. In addition, there is a risk that non-partner merchants bring legal claims against us relating to their inclusion on our platform. For example, in 2015, In-N-Out Burger filed a complaint against us claiming unfair competition, among other claims, and sought a permanent injunction to stop us from delivering their food. There is also a risk that state or local law is enacted to prevent platforms like ours from including non-partners on the platform. For example, the California Legislature passed legislation, California Assembly Bill 2149 (AB 2149), which was signed into law by Governor Gavin Newsom and became effective on January 1, 2021. AB 2149 prohibits, among other things, food delivery logistics platforms from facilitating deliveries from restaurants in California without the restaurants prior consent. Similar prohibitions have also been enacted in jurisdictions where we operate including Louisiana, Massachusetts, Michigan, Arkansas, Virginia, Washington, DC, Nevada, Missouri, Oregon, Rhode Island, New York, Colorado, and New Hampshire and are being contemplated in other jurisdictions. Beyond regulatory restrictions, we may also adopt internal policies that limit or prohibit the facilitation of deliveries from merchants without their prior consent. For example, in November 2020, we adopted internal policies pursuant to which we generally do not add new non-partner restaurants for delivery on our platform in the United States and such policies require the use of disclaimers with existing non-partner restaurants on our platform in the United States to inform consumers that such restaurants are not partnered with DoorDash. In the future, based on a variety of factors, including legal and regulatory changes, we may continue to revise and update our internal policies related to non-partner restaurants and other merchants. To the extent we are required or we choose to remove non-partner merchants for any reason, this will adversely affect our ability to attract and retain consumers and could directly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not continue to innovate and further develop our platform, our platform developments do not perform, or we are not able to keep pace with technological developments, we may not remain competitive and our business and results of operations could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability to continue to innovate and further develop our platform. To remain competitive, we must continuously enhance and improve the functionality and features of our platform, including our website and mobile applications and the suite of merchant services that we offer through our platform. If we fail to expand the suite of merchant services that we offer through our platform, or if we fail to continuously enhance and improve our existing merchant services, our ability to retain and acquire merchants could be adversely affected. If competitors introduce new offerings embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing technology, services, website, and mobile applications may become obsolete. Our future success could depend on our ability to respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely manner. We have scaled our business rapidly and significant new platform features and services have in the past resulted in, and in the future may continue to result in, operational challenges affecting our business. Developing and launching enhancements to our platform and new services on our platform may involve significant technical risks and upfront capital investments that may not generate return on investment. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to 26 Table of Contents adapt to emerging industry standards. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced platform features and services or if our recently introduced offerings do not perform in accordance with our expectations, the merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform may forego the use of our services in favor of those of our competitors. Our marketing efforts to help grow our business may not be effective. Promoting awareness of our platform is important to our ability to grow our business and to attract new merchants, consumers, and Dashers and can be costly. We believe that much of the growth in the number of merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform is attributable to our paid marketing initiatives. Our marketing efforts currently include referrals, affiliate programs, free or discount trials, partnerships, display advertising, television, billboards, radio, video, direct mail, social media, email, podcasts, hiring and classified advertisement websites, mobile push communications, search engine optimization, and keyword search campaigns. Our marketing initiatives may become increasingly expensive and generating a meaningful return on these initiatives may be difficult. Even if we successfully increase revenue as a result of our paid marketing efforts, it may not offset the additional marketing expenses we incur. If our marketing efforts to help grow our business are not effective, we expect that our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be adversely affected. Any failure to offer high-quality support may harm our relationships with merchants, consumers, and Dashers and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain merchants, consumers, and Dashers is dependent in part on our ability to provide high-quality support. Merchants, consumers, and Dashers depend on our support organization to resolve any issues relating to our platform. We rely on third parties to provide some support services and our ability to provide effective support is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain third-party service providers who are not only qualified to support users of our platform but are also well versed in our platform. As we continue to grow our business and improve our offerings, we will face challenges related to providing high-quality support services at scale. Additionally, as we continue to grow our international business and the number of international users on our platform, our support organization will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support in languages other than English. Any failure to maintain high-quality support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could harm our reputation and adversely affect our ability to scale our platform and business, our financial condition, and results of operations. If we fail to maintain or improve the cost-effectiveness of our local logistics platform, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide a cost-effective local logistics platform depends on a number of factors, including Dasher efficiency and Dasher pay. Dasher efficiency relies on the technology that powers our local logistics platform and while we continue to make significant investments to improve the efficiency and sophistication of our technology, including enhancements to demand prediction, forecasting food preparation times at merchants, and optimizing our routing and batching algorithms, there is no guarantee that such efforts will be successful and produce the resulting gains in efficiency to our platform that we expect, or at all. Dasher pay is a major component of the cost of our business and subject to a number of risks, including changes to our Dasher pay model. The cost effectiveness of our local logistics platform would also be adversely affected if our operational and technological improvements do not reduce the number of defective orders and accordingly our cost of revenue and refunds and credits. If we are unable to maintain or improve the cost effectiveness of our local logistics platform, including with respect to Dasher efficiency and Dasher pay, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents We experience significant seasonal fluctuations in our financial results, which could cause our Class A common stock price to fluctuate. Our business is highly dependent on consumer spending and Dasher behavior patterns that have an impact on our growth and expenses. We may experience changes in consumer activity over the course of the calendar year, although our rapid growth and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has made, and may continue to make, seasonal fluctuations difficult to detect. For example, consumer activity can be impacted by colder or more inclement weather, which may increase consumer demand, and warmer or sunny weather, which may decrease consumer demand. In addition, the number of available Dashers may decrease during periods of inclement weather, but consumer demand during these times may require us to have more Dashers available to fulfill orders. During these times, we typically rely on incentive pay to attract sufficient Dashers to maintain the quality of our platform, which increases our costs. Further, severe weather in certain areas can cause businesses, including restaurants, to close, and make it impossible for Dashers to make deliveries if roads are closed or difficult to drive on. In addition, we benefit from increased order volume in our campus markets when school is in session, and we experience a decrease in order volume when school is not in session and during summer breaks and other vacation periods, causing a similar decrease in Dasher pay. Seasonality will likely cause fluctuations in our financial results on a quarterly basis. In addition, other seasonal trends may develop and the existing seasonal trends that we experience may become more pronounced and contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations as we continue to scale and our growth slows. As such, we may not accurately forecast our results of operations. However, we base our spending and investment plans on forecasts and estimates, and we may not be able to adjust our spending quickly enough if our revenue is less than expected, causing our results of operations to fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of investors. The impact of economic conditions, including the resulting effects on consumer spending and merchant performance, may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our performance is subject to economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth, inflation, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items may decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. Economic conditions in certain regions may also be affected by natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, wildfires, and threats to public health, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, small businesses that do not have substantial resources, like some of the merchants on our platform, tend to be more adversely affected by poor economic conditions than large businesses. If merchants on our platform cease operations, temporarily or permanently, or face financial distress or other business disruption, we may not be able to provide consumers with sufficient merchant selection, and they may be less likely to use our platform. This risk is particularly pronounced with restaurants, as each year a significant percentage of restaurants go out of business, and in markets where we have fewer merchants. In addition, because spending for purchases from many of the merchants on our platform is generally considered to be discretionary, we expect that any decline in consumer spending would have a disproportionate effect on our business relative to those businesses that sell products or services considered to be necessities. If spending at the merchants on our platform declines, consumers may be less likely to use our platform, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, merchants on our platform may be negatively impacted by supply chain issues, labor shortages, inflation, or other macroeconomic factors. Labor shortages at merchants could negatively impact their ability to fulfill orders, which could negatively impact volume on our Marketplace and in our Drive business. Inflationary pressures could drive merchant prices higher, which could negatively impact consumer demand and drive lower order volume on our Marketplace and in our Drive business. 28 Table of Contents We may face difficulties as we expand our operations into new local markets in which we have limited or no prior operating experience. Our capacity for continued growth depends in part on our ability to expand our operations into, and compete effectively in, new local markets. It may be difficult for us to understand and accurately predict consumer preferences and purchasing habits in these new local markets. In addition, each market has unique regulatory dynamics. These include laws and regulations that can directly or indirectly affect our ability to operate, the pool of Dashers that are available, and our costs associated with insurance, support, fraud, and onboarding new Dashers. In addition, each market is subject to distinct competitive and operational dynamics. These include our ability to offer more attractive services than alternative options and our ability to efficiently attract and retain merchants, consumers, and Dashers, all of which affect our sales, results of operations, and key business metrics. As a result, we may experience fluctuations in our results of operations due to the changing dynamics in the local markets where we operate. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our operations and are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our presence outside the United States and any future international expansion strategy will subject us to additional costs and risks and our plans may not be successful. We have started expanding our presence internationally. For example, we launched our platform in Canada in 2015, in Australia in 2019, in Japan and Germany in 2021, and we expect to expand our international operations. particularly through the proposed acquisition of Wolt (the "Transaction"). Operating outside of the United States may require significant management attention to oversee operations over a broad geographic area with varying cultural norms and customs, in addition to placing strain on our finance, analytics, compliance, legal, engineering, and operations teams. We may incur significant operating expenses and may not be successful in our international expansion for a variety of reasons, including: recruiting and retaining talented and capable employees in foreign countries and maintaining our company culture across all of our offices; an inability to attract merchants, consumers, and Dashers; competition from local incumbents that better understand the local market, may market and operate more effectively, and may enjoy greater local affinity or awareness; differing demand dynamics, which may make our platform less successful; complying with varying laws and regulatory standards, including with respect to labor and employment, data privacy, data protection, tax, and local regulatory restrictions; obtaining any required government approvals, licenses, or other authorizations; varying levels of Internet and mobile technology adoption and infrastructure; currency exchange restrictions or costs and exchange rate fluctuations; operating in jurisdictions that do not protect intellectual property rights in the same manner or to the same extent as the United States; public health concerns or emergencies, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and other highly communicable diseases or viruses, outbreaks of which have from time to time occurred, and which may occur, in various parts of the world in which we operate or may operate in the future; and limitations on the repatriation and investment of funds as well as foreign currency exchange restrictions. Our limited experience in operating our business internationally increases the risk that any potential future expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. If we invest substantial time and resources to expand our operations internationally and are unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, international expansion may subject our business to broader economic, political, and other international risks, including economic volatility and geopolitical conflicts, and may increase our risks in complying with various laws and standards, including with respect to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export controls, and trade and economic sanctions. 29 Table of Contents If we or our partners fail to develop and successfully commercialize autonomous or drone delivery technologies or fail to develop such technologies before our competitors, or if such technologies fail to perform as expected, change our cost structure materially, are inferior to those of our competitors, or are perceived as less safe than those of our competitors or non-autonomous or non-drone delivery methods, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We believe that autonomous and drone delivery technologies may have the ability to meaningfully impact our industry. We have invested and we expect to continue to invest in research and development related to autonomous and drone delivery technologies, either directly or in partnership with companies that develop such technologies. While we believe that autonomous and drone delivery could present substantial opportunities, the development of such technologies is expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful. Autonomous and drone delivery technologies involve significant risks and liabilities. Failures of our or our partners autonomous or drone delivery technologies could generate substantial liability, create negative publicity, or result in regulatory scrutiny, all of which could have an adverse effect on our reputation, brand, business, results of operations, and prospects. Even if our or our partners efforts to develop autonomous and drone delivery technologies are successful, such efforts may not be cost-effective and there is no guarantee that such technologies can reduce our current costs of facilitating on-demand delivery services. Further, several other companies, including Uber and Amazon, are also developing autonomous and drone delivery technologies, either themselves or through collaborations, and we expect that they will use such technology to further compete with us in the local logistics industry. Certain competitors may commercialize autonomous and drone delivery technologies at scale before we or our partners do. In the event that our competitors bring autonomous or drone delivery to market before we do, or their technology is or is perceived to be superior to our or our partners technology, they may be able to leverage such technology to compete more effectively with us, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For example, if competitors develop autonomous and drone delivery technologies that successfully reduce the cost of facilitating delivery logistics services, these competitors could offer their services at lower prices as compared to the price available to consumers on our platform. If a significant number of consumers choose to use our competitors offerings over ours, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, we expect that governments will develop regulations that are specifically designed to apply to autonomous and drone technologies. These regulations could include requirements that significantly delay or narrowly limit the commercialization of autonomous and drone technologies, limit the amount of autonomous and drone delivery on our platform, or impose significant liabilities on manufacturers or operators of these solutions or developers of these technologies. Moreover, these regulations may affect our or our partners ability to design and manufacture new autonomous or drone technologies. For example, commercial drone regulations adopted by the Federal Aviation Administration limit the altitude, available airspace, and weight of a drone and also the certification of remote pilots that can operate a drone for commercial purposes in the United States. If regulations of this nature continue to be implemented, we or our partners may not be able to commercialize autonomous and drone delivery technologies in the manner we expect, or at all. Further, if we or our partners are unable to comply with existing or new regulations or laws applicable to autonomous and drone solutions, we could become subject to substantial fines or penalties. If we are unable to make acquisitions and investments, or successfully integrate them into our business, our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected. As part of our business strategy, we will continue to consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions of businesses, new technologies, services, and other assets and strategic investments that complement our business. For example, in November 2021, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Wolt, a local commerce platform based in Finland, which is expected to close in the first half of 2022. We have previously acquired and continue to evaluate targets that operate in relatively nascent markets, and as a result, there is no assurance that such acquired businesses will be successfully integrated into our business or generate substantial revenue. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations, including: intense competition for suitable acquisition targets, which could increase prices and adversely affect our ability to consummate deals on favorable or acceptable terms; failure or material delay in closing a transaction; transaction-related lawsuits or claims; difficulties in integrating the technologies, operations, existing contracts, and personnel of an acquired company; difficulties in retaining key employees or business partners of an acquired company; 30 Table of Contents difficulties in retaining merchants, consumers, and delivery service providers, as applicable, of an acquired company; challenges with integrating the brand identity of an acquired company with our own; diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations or alternative acquisition opportunities; failure to realize the anticipated benefits or synergies of a transaction; failure to identify the problems, liabilities, or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance practices, litigation, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or user issues; risks that regulatory bodies may enact new laws or promulgate new regulations that are adverse to an acquired company or business; risks that regulatory bodies do not approve our acquisitions or business combinations or delay such approvals; theft of our trade secrets or confidential information that we share with potential acquisition candidates; risk that an acquired company or investment in new services cannibalizes a portion of our existing business; and adverse market reaction to an acquisition. We have made and may continue to make strategic investments as part of our business strategy. For example, in October 2021, we closed a $395 million investment in preferred shares of a private company based in Europe which provides an instant grocery delivery service. Strategic investments inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, thereby potentially increasing the financial, legal, operational, regulatory, and/or compliance risks associated with the joint venture or strategic investment. In addition, we may be dependent on partners, controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control them and who may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent or competitive with ours. Business decisions or other actions or omissions of the partners, controlling shareholders, management, or other persons or entities who control them may adversely affect the value of our investment, result in litigation or regulatory action against us, and may otherwise damage our reputation and brand. Our ability to sell or transfer, or realize value from our investments may be limited by applicable securities laws and regulations. Entry into certain transactions with foreign entities now or in the future may be subject to government regulations, including review related to foreign direct investment by U.S. or foreign government entities. If a transaction with a foreign entity was subject to regulatory review, such regulatory review might limit our ability to enter into the desired strategic alliance and thus our ability to carry out our long-term business strategy. In addition, our investments are speculative in nature and may decline in value or be entirely lost. If we fail to address the foregoing risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions of businesses, new technologies, services, and other assets and strategic investments, or if we fail to successfully integrate such acquisitions or investments, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on our highly skilled employees to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, retain, manage, and motivate our employees, or if our new employees do not perform as we anticipate, we may not be able to grow effectively and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of our founders, senior management team, key technical employees, and other highly skilled employees, including Tony Xu, our co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, and on our ability to continue to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain talented employees. We may not be able to retain the services of any of our employees or other members of senior management in the future. Also, all of our U.S.-based employees, including our senior management team and Mr. Xu, work for us on an at-will basis, and there is no assurance that any such employee will remain with us. Our competitors may be successful in recruiting and hiring members of our management team or other key employees, and it may be difficult for us to find suitable replacements on a timely basis, on competitive terms, or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary employees, particularly in critical areas of our business, we may not achieve our strategic goals. In addition, from time to time, there may be changes in our senior management team that may be disruptive to our business. If our senior management team fails to work together effectively and to execute its plans and strategies, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face intense competition for highly skilled employees, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area where we have a substantial presence and need for highly skilled employees. To attract and retain top talent, we have had to offer, and we 31 Table of Contents believe we will need to continue to offer, competitive compensation and benefits packages. Job candidates and existing employees often consider the value of the equity awards they receive in connection with their employment. The trading price of our Class A common stock may be volatile and could be subject to fluctuations in response to various factors and may not appreciate. If the perceived value of our equity awards declines for this or other reasons, it may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. Certain of our employees have received significant proceeds from sales of our equity in private transactions and many of our employees have received, and may in the future receive, significant proceeds from sales of our equity in the public markets, which may reduce their motivation to continue to work for us. We may need to invest significant amounts of cash and equity to attract and retain new employees and expend significant time and resources to identify, recruit, train, and integrate such employees, and we may never realize returns on these investments. If we are unable to effectively manage our hiring needs or successfully integrate new hires, our efficiency, ability to meet forecasts, and employee morale, productivity, and engagement could suffer, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our company culture has contributed to our success and if we cannot maintain and evolve our culture as we grow, our business could be adversely affected. We believe that our company culture, which promotes authenticity, empathy, support for others, and bias for action, has been critical to our success. We face a number of challenges that may affect our ability to sustain our corporate culture, including: failure to identify, attract, reward, and retain people in leadership positions in our organization who share and further our culture, values, and mission; the increasing size and geographic diversity of our workforce; competitive pressures to move in directions that may divert us from our mission, vision, and values; the continued challenges of a rapidly evolving industry; the increasing need to develop expertise in new areas of business that affect us; negative perception of our treatment of employees, merchants, consumers, and Dashers or our response to employee sentiment related to political or social causes or actions of management; and the integration of new personnel and businesses from acquisitions. If we are not able to maintain and evolve our culture, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business could be adversely impacted by changes in the Internet and mobile device accessibility of users. Our business depends on users access to our platform via a mobile device or personal computer and the Internet. We may operate in jurisdictions that provide limited Internet connectivity, particularly as we expand internationally. Internet access and access to a mobile device or personal computer are frequently provided by companies with significant market power that could take actions that degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of consumers ability to access our platform. In addition, the Internet infrastructure that we and users of our platform rely on in any particular geographic area may be unable to support the demands placed upon it and could interfere with the speed and availability of our platform. Any such failure in Internet or mobile device or computer accessibility, even for a short period of time, could adversely affect our results of operations. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, our ability to produce timely and accurate financial statements or comply with applicable regulations could be impaired. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and the rules and regulations of the applicable listing standards of the New York Stock Exchange. We expect that the requirements of these rules and regulations will continue to increase our legal, accounting, and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming, and costly, and place significant strain on our personnel, systems, and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure