Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on current plans, expectations, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview DoorDash, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware with headquarters in San Francisco, California. Our mission is to grow and empower local economies. We aim to do this by providing services that reduce friction in local commerce and help merchants better connect with consumers in their communities. Our primary offerings include the DoorDash Marketplace and the Wolt Marketplace (our "Marketplaces"), and our Commerce Platform. Our Marketplaces operate in over 30 countries across the globe and provide an integrated suite of services that help merchants establish an online presence, connect with consumers in their communities, and solve mission-critical challenges, such as customer acquisition, demand generation, order fulfillment, merchandising, payment processing, and customer support. We also offer advertising as a value-added service through our Marketplaces to help merchants and consumer packaged goods companies increase consumer engagement and drive incremental revenue. Our Marketplaces compete for consumers based primarily on the selection, convenience, quality, affordability, and service we provide. Our Marketplaces also offer our consumer membership programs, DashPass and Wolt+, which aim to lower transactional friction by reducing the delivery and service fees we charge, while providing additional membership benefits. In addition to our Marketplaces, we offer our Commerce Platform, which is a suite of services that help merchants grow, run, and operate their businesses on their own channels. DoorDash Drive On-Demand and Wolt Drive (together, "Drive") are white-label delivery fulfillment services that generate the majority of revenue within our Commerce Platform. In addition to Drive, we also provide services that help merchants establish online ordering, build branded mobile apps, enable tableside order and pay, and improve customer support. Financial and Operational Highlights We use the following financial and operational metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 Total Orders 620 732 Total Orders Y/Y growth 21 % 18 % Marketplace GOV $ 19,239 $ 23,076 Marketplace GOV Y/Y growth 21 % 20 % Revenue $ 2,513 $ 3,032 Revenue Y/Y growth 23 % 21 % Net Revenue Margin 13.1 % 13.1 % GAAP gross profit $ 1,129 $ 1,478 GAAP gross profit as a % of Marketplace GOV 5.9 % 6.4 % Contribution Profit(1) $ 751 $ 1,020 Contribution Profit as a % of Marketplace GOV 3.9 % 4.4 % GAAP net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders $ (23) $ 193 GAAP net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders as a % of Marketplace GOV (0.1) % 0.8 % Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 371 $ 590 Adjusted EBITDA as a % of Marketplace GOV 1.9 % 2.6 % Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding 405 436 25 Table of Contents (1)Contribution Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information regarding our use of these measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, see the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Total Orders. We define Total Orders as all orders completed through our Marketplaces and Commerce Platform over the period of measurement. In the first quarter of 2025, Total Orders increased to 732 million, or 18% growth compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase in Total Orders was driven primarily by growth in consumers and growth in average consumer engagement. Marketplace GOV. We define Marketplace GOV as the total dollar value of orders completed on our Marketplaces, including taxes, tips2, and any applicable consumer fees, including membership fees related to DashPass and Wolt+. Marketplace GOV does not include the dollar value of orders, taxes and tips, or fees charged to merchants, for orders fulfilled through our Commerce Platform. In the first quarter of 2025, Marketplace GOV increased to $23.1 billion, or 20% growth compared to the same quarter of 2024, driven primarily by growth in Total Orders. Net Revenue Margin. We define Net Revenue Margin as revenue expressed as a percentage of Marketplace GOV. In the first quarter of 2025, Net Revenue Margin remained flat at 13.1% consistent with the same quarter of 2024. Contribution Profit. We define Contribution Profit as our gross profit less sales and marketing expense plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, and (iv) inventory write-off related to restructuring. Gross profit is defined as revenue less (i) cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization and (ii) depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue. We use Contribution Profit to evaluate our operating performance and trends. We believe that Contribution Profit is a useful indicator of the economic impact of orders fulfilled through DoorDash as it takes into account the direct expenses associated with generating and fulfilling orders. In the first quarter of 2025, Contribution Profit increased to $1.0 billion, compared to $751 million in the same quarter of 2024, driven primarily by growth in revenue, partially offset by increases in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses. Adjusted EBITDA. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders, adjusted to include net income (loss) attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests and exclude (i) certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, (ii) loss on disposal of property and equipment, (iii) transaction-related costs (primarily consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs), (iv) impairment expenses, (v) restructuring charges, (vi) inventory write-off related to restructuring, (vii) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (viii) interest income, net, (ix) other expense, net, (x) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and (xi) depreciation and amortization expense. Adjusted EBITDA is a performance measure that we use to assess our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. In the first quarter of 2025, Adjusted EBITDA increased to $590 million from $371 million in the same quarter of 2024, driven primarily by growth in Contribution Profit. Free Cash Flow. We define Free Cash Flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and website development costs. In the first quarter of 2025, we generated net cash provided by operating activities of $635 million and Free Cash Flow of $494 million, up from $553 million and $487 million, respectively in the same quarter of 2024. The increase in Free Cash Flow was driven primarily by an increase in net cash provided by operating activities. 2Dashers receive 100% of tips 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Revenue $ 2,513 $ 3,032 Costs and expenses:(1) Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 1,330 1,500 Sales and marketing 504 586 Research and development 279 306 General and administrative 319 332 Depreciation and amortization(2) 142 152 Restructuring charges 1 Total costs and expenses 2,574 2,877 Income (loss) from operations (61) 155 Interest income, net 45 49 Other expense, net (2) (6) Income (loss) before income taxes (18) 198 Provision for income taxes 7 6 Net income (loss) including redeemable non-controlling interests (25) 192 Less: net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests (2) (1) Net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders $ (23) $ 193 (1)Costs and expenses included stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 32 $ 33 Sales and marketing 25 26 Research and development 113 116 General and administrative 82 60 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 252 $ 235 (2)Depreciation and amortization related to the following: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Cost of revenue $ 54 $ 54 Sales and marketing 30 28 Research and development 53 65 General and administrative 5 5 Total depreciation and amortization $ 142 $ 152 27 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2025 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 53 % 50 % Sales and marketing 20 % 19 % Research and development 11 % 10 % General and administrative 13 % 11 % Depreciation and amortization 6 % 5 % Restructuring charges % % Total costs and expenses 103 % 95 % Income (loss) from operations (3) % 5 % Interest income, net 2 % 2 % Other expense, net % % Income (loss) before income taxes (1) % 7 % Provision for income taxes % % Net income (loss) including redeemable non-controlling interests (1) % 7 % Less: net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests % % Net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders (1) % 7 % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 and 2025 Revenue We generate a substantial majority of our revenue from orders completed through our Marketplaces and the related commissions charged to partner merchants and fees charged to consumers. Commissions from partner merchants are based on an agreed-upon rate applied to the total dollar value of goods ordered in exchange for using our Marketplaces to sell the partner merchants products. Fees from consumers are for the use of our Marketplaces and to arrange for delivery services. Our revenue reflects commissions charged to partner merchants and fees charged to consumers less (i) Dasher payout and (ii) refunds, credits, and promotions, which includes certain discounts and incentives provided to consumers. We also generate revenue from membership fees paid by consumers for DashPass and Wolt+, and our advertising products, which are recognized as part of our Marketplaces revenue. In addition, we generate revenue from other sources, including our Commerce Platform. Drive generates the majority of revenue within our Commerce Platform. We generate revenue from Drive by collecting per-order fees from merchants to arrange for delivery services that fulfill demand generated through their own channels. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Revenue $ 2,513 $ 3,032 21 % Revenue increased by $519 million, or 21%, during the first quarter of 2025, compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily driven by a 20% increase in Marketplace GOV. During the first quarter of 2025, revenue grew at a faster rate than Marketplace GOV during the same period primarily due to an increasing contribution from advertising revenue. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of revenue primarily consists of (i) order management costs, which include payment processing charges, net of rebates issued from payment processors, costs associated with cancelled orders, insurance expenses, costs related to placing orders with non-partner merchants, and costs related to first party product sales, for which we take control of inventory, (ii) platform costs, which include costs for onboarding merchants and Dashers, costs for providing support for consumers, merchants, and Dashers, and technology platform infrastructure costs, and (iii) personnel costs, which include 28 Table of Contents personnel-related compensation expenses related to our local operations, support, and other teams, and allocated overhead. Personnel-related compensation expenses primarily include salary, bonus, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense. Allocated overhead is determined based on an allocation of shared costs, such as facilities (including rent and utilities) and information technology costs, among all departments based on employee headcount. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 1,330 $ 1,500 13 % Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased by $170 million, or 13%, for the first quarter of 2025, compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $120 million in order management costs and an increase of $63 million in platform costs, driven primarily by growth in Total Orders. Order management costs also increased due to an increase in costs associated with our first-party distribution business. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and other ancillary expenses related to merchant, consumer, and Dasher acquisition, including certain consumer referral credits and Dasher referral fees paid to the referrers to the extent they represent fair value of acquiring a new consumer or a new Dasher, brand marketing expenses, personnel-related compensation expenses for sales and marketing employees, and commissions expense including amortization of deferred contract costs, as well as allocated overhead. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Sales and marketing $ 504 $ 586 16 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $82 million, or 16%, for the first quarter of 2025, compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $63 million in advertising expenses and an increase of $19 million in personnel-related compensation expenses. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses related to data analytics and the design of, product development of, and improvements to our platform, as well as expenses associated with the licensing of third-party software and allocated overhead. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Research and development $ 279 $ 306 10 % Research and development expenses increased by $27 million, or 10%, for the first quarter of 2025, compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $42 million in personnel-related compensation expenses, partially offset by an increase in capitalized software and website development costs of $20 million. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of legal, tax, and regulatory expenses, which include litigation settlement expenses and sales and indirect taxes, personnel-related compensation expenses related to administrative employees, which include finance and accounting, human resources and legal, chargebacks associated with fraudulent credit card transactions, professional services fees, transaction-related costs, impairment expenses, bad debt expense, and allocated overhead. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change General and administrative $ 319 $ 332 4 % 29 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses increased by $13 million, or 4%, for the first quarter of 2025, compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $9 million in transaction-related costs and a $7 million increase in office lease impairment expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses primarily consist of depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our property and equipment and intangible assets. Depreciation primarily includes expenses associated with equipment for merchants, computer equipment and software, office equipment, and leasehold improvements. Amortization includes expenses associated with our capitalized software and website development costs, as well as acquired intangible assets. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 142 $ 152 7 % Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $10 million, or 7%, for the first quarter of 2025, compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $8 million in amortization expense related to capitalized software and website development costs. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges primarily consist of separation-related payments and other termination benefit costs associated with restructuring activities. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Restructuring charges $ $ 1 **Percentage not meaningful Restructuring charges were not material in the periods presented. Interest Income, Net Interest income, net primarily consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, net of interest costs. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Interest income, net $ 45 $ 49 9 % Interest income, net increased by $4 million or 9% for the first quarter of 2025, compared to the same quarter of 2024. The increase was primarily driven by a larger investment portfolio, partially offset by a decrease in average interest rates. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net primarily consists of adjustments to non-marketable equity securities, including impairment, as well as gains and losses from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Other expense, net $ (2) $ (6) 200 % Other expense, net was not material in the periods presented. 30 Table of Contents Provision for (benefit from) Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which we do business. Foreign jurisdictions have different statutory tax rates than those in the U.S. Additionally, certain of our foreign earnings may also be taxable in the U.S. Accordingly, our effective tax rate is subject to significant variation due to several factors, including variability in our pre-tax and taxable income and loss and the mix of jurisdictions to which they relate, changes in our stock price, intercompany transactions, changes in how we do business, acquisitions, investments, tax audit developments, changes in our deferred tax assets and liabilities and their valuation, foreign currency gains and losses, changes in statutes, regulations, case law, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations related to tax, including changes to the global tax framework, competition, and other laws and accounting rules in various jurisdictions, and relative changes of expenses or losses for which tax benefits are not recognized. Additionally, the impact of discrete items and non-deductible expenses varies depending on the amount of pre-tax income or loss. For example, the impact of any particular item is greater when the amount of our pre-tax income or loss is smaller. We have a valuation allowance for our net deferred tax assets in the U.S. and Finland. We expect to maintain these valuation allowances until it becomes more-likely-than-not that the benefit of our deferred tax assets will be realized by way of expected future taxable income in the U.S. and Finland. Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 % Change Provision for income taxes $ 7 $ 6 **Percentage not meaningful The provision for income taxes for the first quarter of 2025 was primarily attributable to pre-tax book income in the U.S. resulting in federal and state income taxes, offset by losses generated in non-U.S. jurisdictions for which a tax benefit can be realized. The provision for income taxes for the same quarter of 2024 was primarily attributable to pre-tax book income in the U.S. resulting in federal and state income taxes. Given our current earnings and anticipated future earnings, we believe that there is a reasonable possibility that sufficient positive evidence may become available in a future period to reach a conclusion that the U.S. valuation allowance will no longer be needed. Release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and a corresponding decrease to income tax expense in the period the release is recorded. The exact timing and amount of any potential valuation allowance release are subject to change on the basis of our level of sustained U.S. profitability, as well as the amount of our tax deductible stock-based compensation, which is dependent upon our publicly traded share price, and macroeconomic conditions, among other factors. For additional information, see Note 10 - "Income Taxes" included in Part I, Item 1, "Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements" of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our business and financial performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors about our business and financial performance, enhance their overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to metrics used by our management in their financial and operational decision making. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures to assist investors in seeing our business and financial performance through the eyes of management, and because we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing results of operations of our business over multiple periods and with other companies in our industry. Our definitions may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Further, these metrics have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of 31 Table of Contents operations. Thus, our adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by providing a reconciliation of adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow to their respective related GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our business, results of operations, and financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. Adjusted Cost of Revenue We define adjusted cost of revenue as cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, allocated overhead, and inventory write-off related to restructuring. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. We believe excluding such expenses provides a better period-to-period comparison of the core operating performance of our business. The following table provides a reconciliation of cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, to adjusted cost of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 1,330 $ 1,500 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (33) (34) Allocated overhead (8) (8) Adjusted cost of revenue $ 1,289 $ 1,458 Adjusted Sales and Marketing Expense We define adjusted sales and marketing expense as sales and marketing expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and allocated overhead. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. We believe excluding such expenses provides a better period-to-period comparison of the core operating performance of our business. The following table provides a reconciliation of sales and marketing expense to adjusted sales and marketing expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Sales and marketing $ 504 $ 586 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (25) (26) Allocated overhead (6) (6) Adjusted sales and marketing $ 473 $ 554 Adjusted Research and Development Expense We define adjusted research and development expense as research and development expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and allocated overhead. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by 32 Table of Contents Total Orders. We believe excluding such expenses provides a better period-to-period comparison of the core operating performance of our business. The following table provides a reconciliation of research and development expense to adjusted research and development expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Research and development $ 279 $ 306 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (114) (116) Allocated overhead (5) (6) Adjusted research and development $ 160 $ 184 Adjusted General and Administrative Expense We define adjusted general and administrative expense as general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, transaction-related costs (primarily consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs), impairment expenses, and including allocated overhead from cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and research and development. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, transaction-related costs, as well as impairment expenses, as these costs are not indicative of our operating performance. We believe excluding such expenses provides a better period-to-period comparison of the core operating performance of our business. The following table provides a reconciliation of general and administrative expense to adjusted general and administrative expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 General and administrative $ 319 $ 332 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (83) (61) Certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses(1) (35) (29) Transaction-related costs (9) Office lease impairment expenses (7) Allocated overhead from cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and research and development 19 20 Adjusted general and administrative $ 220 $ 246 (1)We exclude certain costs and expenses from our calculation of adjusted general and administrative expense because management believes that these costs and expenses are not indicative of our core operating performance, do not reflect the underlying economics of our business, and are not necessary to operate our business. These excluded costs and expenses consist of (i) certain legal costs primarily related to worker classification matters, and our historical Dasher pay model, (ii) reserves and settlements or other resolutions for or related to the collection of sales, indirect, and other taxes that we do not expect to incur on a recurring basis, and (iii) expenses related to supporting various policy matters, including those related to worker classification, other labor law matters, and price controls. We believe it is appropriate to exclude the foregoing matters from our calculation of adjusted general and administrative expense because (1) the timing and magnitude of such expenses are unpredictable and thus not part of managements budgeting or forecasting process, and (2) with respect to worker classification matters, management currently expects such expenses will not be material to our results of operations over the long term as a result of increasing legislative and regulatory certainty in this area, including as a result of Proposition 22 in California and similar legislation. Contribution Profit We use Contribution Profit to evaluate our operating performance and trends. We believe that Contribution Profit is a useful indicator of the economic impact of orders fulfilled through DoorDash as it takes into account the direct expenses associated with generating and fulfilling orders. It is not a financial measure of total company profitability and it is neither intended to be used as a proxy for total company profitability nor imply profitability for our business. We define Contribution Profit as our gross profit less sales and marketing expense plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing 33 Table of Contents expenses, and (iv) inventory write-off related to restructuring. We define gross margin as gross profit as a percentage of revenue for the same period and we define Contribution Margin as Contribution Profit as a percentage of revenue for the same period. Gross profit is the most directly comparable financial measure to Contribution Profit. The following table provides a reconciliation of gross profit to Contribution Profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 Revenue $ 2,513 $ 3,032 Less: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization (1,330) (1,500) Less: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue (54) (54) Gross profit $ 1,129 $ 1,478 Gross Margin 44.9 % 48.7 % Less: Sales and marketing $ (504) $ (586) Add: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue 54 54 Add: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing 58 60 Add: Allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing 14 14 Contribution Profit $ 751 $ 1,020 Contribution Margin 29.9 % 33.6 % Adjusted Gross Profit We define Adjusted Gross Profit as gross profit plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue, (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue, and (iv) inventory write-off related to restructuring. Gross profit is defined as revenue less (i) cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization and (ii) depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue. Adjusted Gross Margin is defined as Adjusted Gross Profit as a percentage of revenue for the same period. The following table provides a reconciliation of gross profit to Adjusted Gross Profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions, except percentages) 2024 2025 Gross profit $ 1,129 $ 1,478 Add: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue 54 54 Add: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue 33 34 Add: Allocated overhead included in cost of revenue 8 8 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 1,224 $ 1,574 Adjusted Gross Margin 48.7 % 51.9 % Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a measure that we use to assess our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders, adjusted to include net income (loss) attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests and exclude (i) certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, (ii) loss on disposal of property and equipment, (iii) transaction-related costs (primarily consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs), (iv) impairment expenses, (v) restructuring charges, (vi) inventory write-off related to restructuring, (vii) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (viii) interest income, net, (ix) other expense, net, (x) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and (xi) depreciation and amortization expense. The following table provides a reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders to Adjusted EBITDA, and a reconciliation of net income (loss) including redeemable non-controlling interests to Adjusted EBITDA: 34 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Net income (loss) attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders $ (23) $ 193 Add: Net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests (2) (1) Net income (loss) including redeemable non-controlling interests $ (25) $ 192 Certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses(1) 35 29 Transaction-related costs 9 Office lease impairment expenses 7 Restructuring charges 1 Provision for income taxes 7 6 Interest income, net (45) (49) Other expense, net 2 6 Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense 255 237 Depreciation and amortization expense 142 152 Adjusted EBITDA $ 371 $ 590 (1)We exclude certain costs and expenses from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA because management believes that these costs and expenses are not indicative of our core operating performance, do not reflect the underlying economics of our business, and are not necessary to operate our business. These excluded costs and expenses consist of (i) certain legal costs primarily related to worker classification matters, and our historical Dasher pay model, (ii) reserves and settlements or other resolutions for or related to the collection of sales, indirect, and other taxes that we do not expect to incur on a recurring basis, and (iii) expenses related to supporting various policy matters, including those related to worker classification, other labor law matters, and price controls. We believe it is appropriate to exclude the foregoing matters from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA because (1) the timing and magnitude of such expenses are unpredictable and thus not part of managements budgeting or forecasting process, and (2) with respect to worker classification matters, management currently expects such expenses will not be material to our results of operations over the long term as a result of increasing legislative and regulatory certainty in this area, including as a result of Proposition 22 in California and similar legislation. Free Cash Flow We define Free Cash Flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and website development costs. The following table provides a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 553 $ 635 Purchases of property and equipment (17) (74) Capitalized software and website development costs (49) (67) Free Cash Flow $ 487 $ 494 Net cash used in investing activities $ (72) $ (160) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 7 $ 3 Credit Facility On November 19, 2019, we entered into a revolving credit and guaranty agreement with certain lenders, which, as most recently amended and restated on April 26, 2024, provides for an $800 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on April 26, 2029, with a sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate face amount of up to $600 million. As of March 31, 2025, we were in compliance with the covenants under the revolving credit and guaranty agreement. As amended and restated, the credit agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, as well as customary negative covenants that restrict our ability and our subsidiaries ability to, among other things, incur subsidiary indebtedness, grant liens, declare cash dividends or make certain other distributions, repurchase stock, merge or consolidate with other companies or sell substantially all of our and our subsidiaries' assets, taken as a whole, make investments and loans, and engage in certain transactions with affiliates. The Company must also maintain compliance with a maximum senior net leverage ratio, measured quarterly, determined in accordance with the terms of the credit agreement. As of December 31, 2024 and March 31, 2025, no revolving loans were outstanding and $112 million and $106 million of letters of credit were issued under our revolving credit facility, respectively. 35 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2025, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $6.7 billion, which consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $4.5 billion, short-term marketable securities of $1.3 billion, and long-term marketable securities of $842 million. Additionally, funds held at payment processors of $322 million represent cash due from our payment processors for cleared transactions with merchants and consumers, as well as funds remitted to payment processors for Dasher payout. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash on deposit with banks, as well as institutional money market funds, corporate bonds and U.S. Treasury securities. Marketable securities consisted of certificates of deposit, commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency securities, U.S. Treasury securities, and mutual funds. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $5.1 billion as of March 31, 2025. We have historically funded our operations from cash from operations as well as the issuance of equity securities, including in our initial public offering in December 2020. To execute on our strategic initiatives to continue to grow our business, we may incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations in the future, and as a result, we may require additional capital resources. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, along with the available borrowings under our revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures needs for at least the next 12 months and beyond. In February 2025, we announced the authorization of a share repurchase program for the repurchase of shares of our Class A common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $5.0 billion, which is inclusive of the remaining share repurchase authority of $876 million under the share repurchase program that we previously announced in February 2024. Repurchases may be made from time to time through open market purchases or through privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other relevant factors. Open market repurchases may be structured to occur in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. We have entered into, and may, from time to time, enter into, Rule 10b5-1 plans to facilitate repurchases of our Class A common stock under this authorization. We may or may not repurchase any portion of the total authorized amount, and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased may depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and alternative investment opportunities. As of March 31, 2025, $5.0 billion remained available under the repurchase authorization. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to our growth, our ability to attract and retain merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform, the continuing market acceptance of our offerings, the timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our platform, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, and the timing and extent of spending for policy and worker classification initiatives. Further, we have entered into pending, and may in the future enter into additional, arrangements to acquire or invest in businesses, products, services, and technologies. For example, we recently announced a formal offer to acquire Deliveroo plc for 180 pence per share in a recommended final all cash transaction and separately announced that we reached an agreement to acquire SevenRooms Inc. in an all-cash transaction. In connection with the announcement regarding Deliveroo, we also announced that we entered into a Bridge Term Loan Credit and Guaranty Agreement to, among other things, partially finance the cash consideration payable by us in connection with the acquisition. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2024 2025 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 553 $ 635 Net cash used in investing activities (72) (160) Net cash provided by financing activities 7 3 Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (13) 15 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 475 $ 493 36 Table of Contents Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $635 million for the first quarter of 2025. This consisted of net income including redeemable non-controlling interests of $192 million, adjusted for non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $235 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $152 million, non-cash reduction of operating lease right-of-use assets and accretion of operating lease liabilities of $26 million, non-cash office lease impairment expenses of $7 million, and other net non-cash expenses of $18 million, as well as $5 million net inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily driven by a decrease in funds held at payment processors, partially offset by an increase in other assets. Cash provided by operating activities was $553 million for the first quarter of 2024. This consisted of a net loss including redeemable non-controlling interests of $25 million, offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $252 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $142 million, non-cash reduction of operating lease right-of-use assets and accretion of operating lease liabilities of $26 million, and other net non-cash expenses of $14 million, as well as $144 million net inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily driven by an increase in accrued liabilities and other current liabilities. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $160 million for the first quarter of 2025, which consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $425 million, purchases of property and equipment of $74 million, cash outflows for capitalized software and website development costs of $67 million, and cash paid for acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $27 million, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $433 million. Cash used in investing activities was $72 million for the first quarter of 2024, which primarily consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $529 million, purchases of property and equipment of $17 million, and cash outflows for capitalized software and website development costs of $49 million, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $532 million. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $3 million for the first quarter of 2025, which consisted of proceeds from exercise of stock options. Cash provided by financing activities was $7 million for the first quarter of 2024, which consisted of proceeds from stock option exercises of $1 million and other financing activities of $6 million. Critical Accounting Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosures at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the period presented. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2024.