Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements included in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview 21 Table of Contents We have built a technology-enabled local logistics platform that enables local brick-and-mortar businesses to address consumers expectations of ease and immediacy and thrive in todays convenience economy. We built our products to serve the needs of these three key constituencies. We do this primarily through our Marketplace, which offers a broad array of services that enable merchants to solve mission-critical challenges such as customer acquisition, delivery, insights and analytics, merchandising, payment processing, and customer support. Our Marketplace enables merchants to establish an online presence and expand their reach. It generates significant demand for merchants by connecting them with millions of consumers. Merchants can fulfill this demand through delivery, facilitated by our local logistics platform, or in-person pickup by consumers. In addition to our Marketplace, which accounts for the vast majority of our business today, we offer merchants a variety of products, which we refer to as merchant services, to facilitate sales that merchants have originated through their own channels. Drive, our white-label logistics service, enables merchants that have generated consumer demand through their own channels to fulfill this demand using our local logistics platform. Storefront enables merchants to create their own branded online ordering experience, providing them with a turnkey solution to offer consumers on-demand access to e-commerce without investing in in-house engineering or logistics capabilities. Key Business and Non-GAAP Metrics In addition to the measures presented in our condensed consolidated financial statements, we use the following key business and non-GAAP metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 Total Orders 103 329 Marketplace GOV $ 3,083 $ 9,913 Contribution Profit (1) $ 25 $ 209 Contribution Margin (1) 7 % 19 % Contribution Profit as a % of Marketplace GOV 1 % 2 % Adjusted EBITDA (1) $ (70) $ 43 Adjusted EBITDA Margin (1) (19) % 4 % Adjusted EBITDA as a % of Marketplace GOV (2) % % (1) Contribution Profit, Contribution Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information regarding our use of these measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, see the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures". Total Orders. We define Total Orders as all orders completed on the DoorDash platform, including those completed through our Marketplace, Drive offering, and Storefront, over the period of measurement. Total Orders have increased over time as we have added new consumers, increased retention and engagement of existing consumers, including through the launch of DashPass, expanded into new markets, and increased the number of orders completed through Drive. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, Total Orders increased to 329 million, or 219% growth compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase in Total Orders was driven by increased retention and engagement of existing consumers, the addition of new consumers, and an increase in the number of orders completed through Drive. These trends accelerated in part due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in in-store dining shutdowns and the adoption of shelter-in-place measures. The circumstances that have accelerated the growth of our business stemming from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are not likely to continue following a widespread rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine, and we expect the growth rate of Total Orders to decline in future periods. As we continue to increase consumer adoption and make using DoorDash a regular activity, we expect Total Orders to continue to grow. Marketplace GOV . We define Marketplace GOV as the total dollar value of Marketplace orders completed on our local logistics platform, including taxes, tips, and any applicable consumer fees, including membership fees related to DashPass. Marketplace orders include orders completed through Pickup and DoorDash for Work. Marketplace GOV does not include the dollar value of orders, taxes and tips, or fees charged to merchants, for orders fulfilled through Drive and Storefront because we utilize a per-order fee structure for such orders and typically do not receive information regarding 22 Table of Contents the dollar value of such orders. Marketplace GOV is primarily driven by the volume and dollar value of orders completed on our local logistics platform. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, Marketplace GOV increased to $9.9 billion, or 222% growth compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020, based on the growth in Total Orders as well as the increased value of Marketplace orders in part as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. The circumstances that have accelerated the growth of our business stemming from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic are not likely to continue following the widespread rollout of the COVID-19 vaccine, and we expect the growth rate in Marketplace GOV to decline in future periods. We expect that Marketplace GOV will continue to grow as Total Orders grow, though at a slower rate, as Marketplace GOV does not include Drive while Total Orders do include Drive. We further expect that Marketplace GOV will grow at a slower rate than Total Orders as we continue to broaden our selection of merchants at lower price points to increase affordability for consumers. We are purposefully increasing the affordability of the selection of goods offered by merchants on our platform to improve consumer engagement over time. Contribution Profit (Loss). We define Contribution Profit (Loss) as our gross profit (loss) less sales and marketing expense plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, and (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses. Gross profit (loss) is defined as revenue less (i) cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization and (ii) depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue. We define Contribution Margin as Contribution Profit (Loss) as a percentage of revenue for the same period. We use Contribution Profit (Loss) to evaluate our operating performance and trends. We believe that Contribution Profit (Loss) is a useful indicator of the economic impact of orders fulfilled through DoorDash as it takes into account the direct expenses associated with generating and fulfilling orders. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, Contribution Profit improved to $209 million, compared to $25 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020, driven by the growth in Marketplace GOV, increased merchant commissions and fees from our Marketplace and Drive, cost structure improvements, and increased operating leverage as a result of scale in our business. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, Contribution Margin increased to 19%, compared to 7% in the three months ended March 31, 2020, driven by cost structure improvements and increased operating leverage as a result of scale in our business. Our Contribution Profit (Loss) can vary significantly as we invest in enhancing the scale of our local logistics platform, including through investments in sales and marketing and promotions spend, launching new products, and launching in new geographies. We expect Contribution Profit (Loss) and Contribution Margin to fluctuate in the near term as we continue to invest in the growth of our business and to improve over the long term as we achieve greater scale, increase adoption, and drive efficiency through operational improvements. Contribution Profit (Loss) is a non-GAAP financial measure with certain limitations regarding its usefulness. It does not reflect our financial results in accordance with GAAP as it does not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, Contribution Profit (Loss) is not indicative of our overall results or an indicator of past or future financial performance. Further, it is not a financial measure of profitability and it is neither intended to be used as a proxy for the profitability of our business nor does it imply profitability. Adjusted EBITDA. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude (i) certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, (ii) a one-time non-cash change in fair value of a forward contract related to the issuance of our Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock, (iii) loss on disposal of property and equipment, (iv) acquisition-related costs, (v) impairment expenses, (vi) provision for income taxes, (vii) interest income and expense, (viii) foreign exchange gain (loss), (ix) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and (x) depreciation and amortization expense. Adjusted EBITDA is a performance measure that we use to assess our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by revenue for the same period. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, Adjusted EBITDA improved to $43 million, compared to Adjusted EBITDA of negative $70 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020. In the three months ended March 31, 2021, Adjusted EBITDA Margin increased to 4%, compared to negative 19% in the three months ended March 31, 2020, driven by cost structure improvements and increased operating leverage as a result of scale in our business. 23 Table of Contents We expect Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin to fluctuate in the near term as we continue to invest in our business and improve over the long term as we achieve greater scale in our business and efficiencies in our operating expenses. Components of Results of Operations Revenue We generate a substantial majority of our revenue from orders completed through our Marketplace and the related commissions charged to partner merchants and fees charged to consumers. Commissions from partner merchants are based on an agreed-upon rate applied to the total dollar value of goods ordered in exchange for using our local logistics platform to sell the partner merchants products. Fees from consumers are for use of our local logistics platform to arrange for delivery services. We recognize revenue from Marketplace orders on a net basis as we are an agent for both partner merchants and consumers. Our revenue therefore reflects commissions charged to partner merchants and fees charged to consumers less (i) Dasher payout and (ii) refunds, credits, and promotions, which includes certain discounts and incentives provided to consumers, including those for referring a new customer. Revenue from our Marketplace is recognized at the point in time when the consumer obtains control of the merchants products. We also generate revenue from membership fees paid by consumers for DashPass, which is recognized as part of our Marketplace revenue. Revenue generated from our DashPass subscriptions is recognized on a ratable basis over the contractual period, which is generally one month to one year depending on the type of subscription purchased by the consumer. In addition, we generate revenue from other sources, including from our Drive offering. We generate revenue from Drive by collecting per-order fees from merchants that use our local logistics platform to arrange for delivery services that fulfill demand generated through their own channels. Revenue from Drive is recognized at the point in time when the consumer obtains control of the merchants products. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of revenue primarily consists of (i) order management costs, which include payment processing charges, net of rebates issued from payment processors, costs associated with cancelled orders, insurance expenses, and costs related to placing orders with non-partner merchants, (ii) platform costs, which include costs for onboarding merchants and Dashers, costs for providing support for consumers, merchants, and Dashers, and technology platform infrastructure costs, and (iii) personnel costs, which include personnel-related compensation expenses related to our local operations, support, and other teams, and allocated overhead. Personnel-related compensation expenses primarily include salary, bonus, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense. Allocated overhead is determined based on an allocation of shared costs, such as facilities (including rent and utilities) and information technology costs, among all departments based on employee headcount. We expect that the cost of revenue will increase on an absolute dollar basis as our business grows and as we continue to invest in order management and our platform and hire additional employees for our local operations, support, and other teams to support the growth in our business. As a result, we expect that cost of revenue as a percentage of revenue will vary from period to period over the short term and decrease over the long term as we achieve greater scale and operational efficiency. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and other ancillary expenses related to merchant, consumer, and Dasher acquisition, including certain consumer referral credits and Dasher referral fees paid to the referrers to the extent they represent fair value of acquiring a new consumer or a new Dasher, brand marketing expenses, personnel-related compensation expenses for sales and marketing employees, and commissions expense including amortization of deferred contract costs, as well as allocated overhead. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis as we invest to grow our network of merchants, consumers, and Dashers and enhance our brand awareness. We expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue will vary from period to period over the short term and decrease over the long term. Research and Development 24 Table of Contents Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses related to data analytics and the design of, product development of, and improvements to our platform, as well as expenses associated with the licensing of third-party software and allocated overhead. We plan to continue to hire employees to support our research and development efforts to expand the capabilities and scope of our platform and offerings. As a result, we expect that research and development expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis as we continue to invest to support these activities. We expect that research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue will vary from period to period over the short term and decrease over the long term. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of legal, tax, and regulatory expenses, which include litigation settlement expenses and sales and indirect taxes, personnel-related compensation expenses related to administrative employees, which include finance and accounting, human resources and legal, chargebacks associated with fraudulent credit card transactions, professional services fees, acquisition-related expenses, bad debt expense, and allocated overhead. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis due to increases in chargebacks associated with fraudulent credit card transactions and legal, tax, and regulatory expenses as we add personnel and enhance our systems, processes, and controls to support the growth in our business as well as our increased compliance and reporting requirements as a public company. We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue will vary from period to period over the short term and decrease over the long term. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses primarily consist of depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our property and equipment and intangible assets. Depreciation includes expenses associated with equipment for merchants, including equipment for merchants under finance leases, computer equipment and software, office equipment, and leasehold improvements. Amortization includes expenses associated with our capitalized software and website development costs, as well as acquired intangible assets. We expect that depreciation and amortization expenses will increase on an absolute dollar basis as we invest in property and equipment to support the growth in our business. We expect depreciation and amortization expenses as a percentage of revenue over the short term will vary from period to period and decrease over the long term. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Interest Expense Interest expense consists of interest costs related to our revolving credit facility and payment-in-kind interest on our Convertible Notes issued in February 2020. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net primarily consists of gains and losses from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes primarily consists of U.S. federal and state income tax and franchise tax, as well as international taxes from foreign operations. Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: 25 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Revenue $ 362 $ 1,077 Costs and expenses: (1) Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 194 563 Sales and marketing 152 333 Research and development 33 82 General and administrative 82 169 Depreciation and amortization (2) 24 29 Total costs and expenses 485 1,176 Loss from operations (123) (99) Interest income 3 2 Interest expense (4) (12) Other expense, net (4) Loss before income taxes (128) (109) Provision for income taxes 1 1 Net loss $ (129) $ (110) (1) Costs and expenses include stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 1 $ 9 Sales and marketing 1 10 Research and development 1 35 General and administrative 2 43 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 5 $ 97 (2) Depreciation and amortization related to the following: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Cost of revenue $ 20 $ 21 Sales and marketing 3 2 Research and development 1 5 General and administrative 1 Total depreciation and amortization $ 24 $ 29 The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue: 26 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2021 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization 53 % 52 % Sales and marketing 42 % 31 % Research and development 9 % 8 % General and administrative 23 % 15 % Depreciation and amortization 7 % 3 % Total costs and expenses 134 % 109 % Loss from operations (34) % (9) % Interest income % % Interest expense (1) % (1) % Other expense, net (1) % % Loss before income taxes (36) % (10) % Provision for income taxes % % Net loss (36) % (10) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 and 2021 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Revenue $ 362 $ 1,077 $ 715 198 % Revenue increased by $715 million, or 198%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by a 219% increase in Total Orders to 329 million, which led to a 222% increase in Marketplace GOV to $9.9 billion. The increase in Total Orders was primarily driven by increased retention and engagement of existing consumers, the addition of new consumers, and an increase in the number of orders completed through Drive. This increase was partially the result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in in-store dining shutdowns and shelter-in-place measures. For the three months ended March 31, 2021, revenue increased at a slower rate than Marketplace GOV, primarily due to increased Dasher payout, associated with both the implementation of the 2020 California ballot initiative Proposition 22, or Proposition 22, and the period of Dasher undersupply in the quarter, as well as an increased proportion of orders coming from consumers subscribed to DashPass, which has reduced fees for consumers. Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 194 $ 563 $ 369 190 % Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased by $369 million, or 190%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase of $235 million in order management costs, an increase of $104 million in platform costs, both driven by significant growth in the number of Total Orders and Marketplace GOV, as well as an increase of $16 million in personnel costs driven by increased headcount and an increase in stock-based compensation expense. As a percentage of revenue, cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, was 52% in the three months ended March 31, 2021, decreasing from 53% in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease in cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of revenue was primarily driven by product and operational improvements which improved the efficiency of our platform costs, as well as increased operating leverage as a result of increasing scale in our business. Sales and Marketing 27 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Sales and marketing $ 152 $ 333 $ 181 119 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $181 million, or 119%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $141 million in merchant, consumer, and Dasher advertising and brand marketing expenses as we increased consumer adoption and expanded our Dasher fleet, and an increase of $23 million in personnel-related compensation expenses and allocated overhead driven by increased headcount and an increase in stock-based compensation expense. As a percentage of revenue, sales and marketing expenses were 31% in the three months ended March 31, 2021, decreasing from 42% in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenue was driven by increased operating leverage as existing consumers generated a greater proportion of revenue. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Research and development $ 33 $ 82 $ 49 148 % Research and development expenses increased by $49 million, or 148%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $74 million in personnel-related compensation expenses and allocated overhead due to increased headcount and an increase in stock-based compensation expense, partially offset by an increase in capitalized software and website development costs of $32 million. As a percentage of revenue, research and development expenses were 8% in the three months ended March 31, 2021, decreasing from 9% in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease in research and development expenses as a percentage of revenue was driven by increased operating leverage as a result of increasing scale in our business. General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change General and administrative $ 82 $ 169 $ 87 106 % General and administrative expenses increased by $87 million, or 106%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $57 million in personnel-related compensation expenses, allocated overhead and stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount, an increase of $22 million in chargebacks associated with fraudulent credit card transactions, an increase of $11 million in professional services fees to support growth in our business, and an increase of $11 million in bad debt expense, partially offset by a decrease of $29 million in sales and indirect tax liability as we favorably resolved a sales and indirect tax exposure. As a percentage of revenue, general and administrative expenses were 15% in the three months ended March 31, 2021, decreasing from 23% in the three months ended March 31, 2020. The decrease in general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenue was driven by increased operating leverage as a result of increasing scale in our business as well as a favorable resolution of a non-income tax exposure in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Depreciation and Amortization Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 24 $ 29 $ 5 21 % 28 Table of Contents Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $5 million, or 21%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $6 million in depreciation expenses related to equipment for merchants and an increase of $5 million in amortization expense related to capitalized software and website development costs, offset by a decrease of $9 million in amortization expenses related to intangible assets as the existing technology acquired from Caviar was fully amortized in the fourth quarter of 2020. Interest Income Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Interest income $ 3 $ 2 (1) (33) % Interest income was not material in the periods presented. Interest Expense Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Interest expense $ (4) (12) (8) 200 % Interest expense increased by $8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020. The increase in interest expense was primarily attributable to the repayment and recognition of debt discount and debt issuance costs on our Convertible Notes in the three months ended March 31, 2021. Other expense, net Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 $ Change % Change Other expense, net $ (4) $ $ 4 (100) % Other expense, net was not material in the periods presented. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss), Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our business and financial performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors about our business and financial performance, enhance their overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to metrics used by our management in their financial and operational decision making. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures to assist investors in seeing our business and financial performance through the eyes of management, and because we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing results of operations of our business over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Our definitions may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Further, these metrics have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Thus, our adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by providing a reconciliation of adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, 29 Table of Contents Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin to their respective related GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our business, results of operations, and financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. Adjusted Cost of Revenue We define adjusted cost of revenue as cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and allocated overhead. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. The following table provides a reconciliation of cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, to adjusted cost of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 194 $ 563 Adjusted to exclude the following Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (1) (9) Allocated overhead (5) (5) Adjusted cost of revenue $ 188 $ 549 Adjusted Sales and Marketing Expense We define adjusted sales and marketing expense as sales and marketing expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and allocated overhead. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. The following table provides a reconciliation of sales and marketing expense to adjusted sales and marketing expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Sales and marketing $ 152 $ 333 Adjusted to exclude the following Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (1) (10) Allocated overhead (2) (4) Adjusted sales and marketing $ 149 $ 319 Adjusted Research and Development Expense We define adjusted research and development expense as research and development expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and allocated overhead. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. The following table provides a reconciliation of research and development expense to adjusted research and development expense: 30 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Research and development $ 33 $ 82 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (1) (36) Allocated overhead (4) (3) Adjusted research and development $ 28 $ 43 Adjusted General and Administrative Expense We define adjusted general and administrative expense as general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, acquisition-related costs, impairment expenses, and including allocated overhead from cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and research and development. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, acquisition-related costs, as well as impairment expenses, as these costs are not indicative of our operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation of general and administrative expense to adjusted general and administrative expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 General and administrative $ 82 $ 169 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (2) (45) Certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses (1) (24) (13) Allocated overhead from cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and research and development 11 12 Adjusted general and administrative $ 67 $ 123 (1) We exclude certain costs and expenses from our calculation of adjusted general and administrative expense because management believes that these costs and expenses are not indicative of our core operating performance, do not reflect the underlying economics of our business, and are not necessary to operate our business. These excluded costs and expenses consist of (i) certain legal costs primarily related to worker classification matters, (ii) reserves for the collection of sales and indirect taxes that we do not expect to incur on a recurring basis, (iii) expenses related to supporting various policy matters, including those related to worker classification and price controls, and (iv) donations as part of our COVID-19 pandemic relief efforts. We believe it is appropriate to exclude the foregoing matters from our calculation of adjusted general and administrative expense because (1) the timing and magnitude of such expenses are unpredictable and thus not part of managements budgeting or forecasting process, and (2) with respect to worker classification matters, management currently expects such expenses will not be material to our results of operations over the long term as a result of increasing legislative and regulatory certainty in this area, including as a result of Proposition 22 and similar legislation. Contribution Profit (Loss) We use Contribution Profit (Loss) to evaluate our operating performance and trends. We believe that Contribution Profit (Loss) is a useful indicator of the economic impact of orders fulfilled through DoorDash as it takes into account the direct expenses associated with generating and fulfilling orders. We define Contribution Profit (Loss) as our gross profit (loss) less sales and marketing expense plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, and (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses. We define gross margin as gross profit (loss) as a percentage of revenue for the same period and we define Contribution Margin as Contribution Profit (Loss) as a percentage of revenue for the same period. 31 Table of Contents Gross profit (loss) is the most directly comparable financial measure to Contribution Profit (Loss). The following table provides a reconciliation of gross profit to Contribution Profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 Revenue $ 362 $ 1,077 Less: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization (194) (563) Less: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue (20) (21) Gross profit $ 148 $ 493 Gross Margin 41 % 46 % Less: Sales and marketing $ (152) $ (333) Add: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue 20 21 Add: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing 2 19 Add: Allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing 7 9 Contribution Profit $ 25 $ 209 Contribution Margin 7 % 19 % Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss) We define Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss) as gross profit (loss) plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue, and (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue. Gross profit (loss) is defined as revenue less (i) cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization and (ii) depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue. Adjusted Gross Margin is defined as Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss) as a percentage of revenue for the same period. The following table provides a reconciliation of gross profit to adjusted gross profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 Gross profit $ 148 $ 493 Add: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue 20 21 Add: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue 1 9 Add: Allocated overhead included in cost of revenue 5 5 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 174 $ 528 Adjusted Gross Margin 48 % 49 % Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a measure that we use to assess our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss), adjusted to exclude (i) certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, (ii) a one-time non-cash change in fair value of a forward contract related to the issuance of our Series F redeemable convertible preferred stock, (iii) loss on disposal of property and equipment, (iv) acquisition-related costs, (v) impairment expenses, (vi) provision for income taxes, (vii) interest income and expense, (viii) foreign exchange gain (loss), (ix) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and (x) depreciation and amortization expense. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by revenue for the same period. The following tables provide a reconciliation of net loss to Adjusted EBITDA and a calculation of net margin and Adjusted EBITDA Margin: 32 Table of Contents Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Net loss $ (129) $ (110) Certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses (1) 24 13 Provision for income taxes 1 1 Interest income and expense 1 10 Foreign exchange (gain) loss 4 Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense 5 100 Depreciation and amortization expense 24 29 Adjusted EBITDA $ (70) $ 43 (1) We exclude certain costs and expenses from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA because management believes that these costs and expenses are not indicative of our core operating performance, do not reflect the underlying economics of our business, and are not necessary to operate our business. These excluded costs and expenses consist of (i) certain legal costs primarily related to worker classification matters, (ii) reserves for the collection of sales and indirect taxes that we do not expect to incur on a recurring basis, (iii) expenses related to supporting various policy matters, including those related to worker classification and price controls, and (iv) donations as part of our COVID-19 pandemic relief efforts. We believe it is appropriate to exclude the foregoing matters from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA because (1) the timing and magnitude of such expenses are unpredictable and thus not part of managements budgeting or forecasting process, and (2) with respect to worker classification matters, management currently expects such expenses will not be material to our results of operations over the long term as a result of increasing legislative and regulatory certainty in this area, including as a result of Proposition 22 and similar legislation. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 Revenue $ 362 $ 1,077 Net loss $ (129) $ (110) Net margin (36) % (10) % Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2020 2021 Revenue $ 362 $ 1,077 Adjusted EBITDA $ (70) $ 43 Adjusted EBITDA Margin (19) % 4 % Credit Facilities On November 19, 2019, we entered into a revolving credit and guaranty agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC, an affiliate of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, which, as amended and restated on August 7, 2020, provides for a $ 300 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on August 7, 2025, increasing to $400 million in aggregate revolving commitments upon the consummation of an initial public offering of our common stock on or prior to August 7, 2021. Loans under the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at (i) a base rate equal to the highest of (A) the prime rate, (B) the higher of the federal funds rate or a composite overnight bank borrowing rate plus 0.50 %, or (C) an adjusted LIBOR rate for a one-month interest period plus 1.00 %, or (ii) an adjusted LIBOR rate plus a margin equal to 1.00 %. We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type, including letter of credit fees, an upfront fee, and an unused commitment fee. As of March 31, 2021, we were in compliance with the covenants under the revolving credit and guaranty agreement. As of March 31, 2021, no amounts were drawn and we had $36 million of issued letters of credit outstanding from the revolving credit and guaranty agreement. Convertible Notes On February 19, 2020, we issued $ 340 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes pursuant to the Convertible Note Purchase Agreement, dated February 19, 2020, among us, Caviar, and the investors party thereto, or the Note Investors. We received net proceeds of $ 333 million, net of $ 2 million in debt issuance costs and an original issue discount of $ 5 million. The interest rate under the Convertible Notes was 10.00% per annum, payable quarterly in arrears. In February 2021, we repaid the outstanding principal and accrued interest of the Convertible Notes in full for $ 375 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources 33 Table of Contents In December 2020, we completed our initial public offering (the "IPO") in which we received net proceeds of $3.3 billion from sales of shares of our Class A common stock in the IPO, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. As of March 31, 2021, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $4.5 billion, which consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $4.0 billion, and marketable securities of $467 million. Additionally, funds held at payment processors of $127 million represent cash due from our payment processors for cleared transactions with merchants and consumers, as well as funds remitted to payment processors for Dasher payout. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash on deposit with banks as well as institutional money market funds. Marketable securities consisted of money market fund, commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. Treasury securities. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.7 billion as of March 31, 2021. To execute on our strategic initiatives to continue to grow our business, we may continue to incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations in the future, and as a result, we may require additional capital resources. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, along with the $400 million in available borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures needs for at least the next 12 months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to our growth, our ability to attract and retain merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform, the continuing market acceptance of our offerings, the timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our platform, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending for policy and worker classification initiatives. Further, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in businesses, products, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2020 2021 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (125) $ 166 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 5 (7) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 334 (496) Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash (2) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ 212 $ (337) Operating Activities Cash used in operating activities was $125 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020. This consisted of a net loss of $129 million offset by non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $24 million, non-cash reduction of operating lease right-of-use assets and accretion of operating lease liabilities of $8 million, non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $5 million, non-cash bad debt expense of $5 million, other non-cash expenses of $5 million, and non-cash interest expense of $4 million related to the convertible notes. The net changes in operating assets and liabilities was primarily the result of an increase of $70 million in accounts receivable, net, an increase of $60 million in funds held at payment processors, an increase of $6 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets, an increase of $5 million in other assets, and a decrease of $6 million for payments for operating lease liabilities, offset by an increase of $81 million in accrued expenses and other current liabilities primarily related to litigation reserves, sales tax payable and accrued sales and indirect taxes, accrued operations related expenses, and Dasher and merchant payable, an increase of $15 million in accounts payable, and an increase of $4 million in other liabilities due to timing of legal settlements. Cash provided by operating activities was $166 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021. This consisted of a net loss of $110 million, offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $97 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $29 million, non-cash bad debt expense of $16 million, non-cash reduction of operating lease right-of-use assets and accretion of operating lease liabilities of $11 million, non-cash interest expense of $11 million related to the convertible notes, and other non-cash expenses of $6 million. The net changes in operating assets and liabilities was the result of a decrease of $79 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets, an increase of $27 million in accrued expenses and other current liabilities, primarily related to litigation reserves, sales tax payable and accrued sales and indirect taxes, accrued operations related expenses, Dasher and merchant payable, and contract 34 Table of Contents liabilities, and a decrease of $19 million in funds held at payment processors, offset by a decrease of $8 million for payments for operating lease liabilities, an increase of $7 million in accounts receivable, net, and an increase of $4 million in other assets. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2020 was mainly due to the increases in non-cash expenses and net changes in operating assets and liabilities for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which primarily consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $93 million, purchases of property and equipment of $22 million, cash outflows for capitalized software and website development costs of $10 million, offset by proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities of $130 million. Cash used in investing activities was $7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, which primarily consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $99 million, purchases of property and equipment of $32 million, and cash outflows for capitalized software and website development costs of $22 million, offset by proceeds from the sales and maturities of marketable securities of $146 million. Financing Activities Cash provided by financing activities was $334 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, which primarily consisted of $333 million of net proceeds from the issuance of convertible promissory notes. Cash used in financing activities was $496 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, which consisted of $333 million of repayment of the convertible promissory notes, $166 million of cash outflows for taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards, and $10 million of payment of deferred offering costs, offset by $13 million of proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We did not have during the periods presented, and we do not currently have, any off-balance sheet financing arrangements or any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, including entities sometimes referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, that were established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosures at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the period presented. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020.