Item 2. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. This discussion contains forward-looking statements that are based on current plans, expectations, and beliefs that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including, but not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors and other sections of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our historical results are not necessarily indicative of the results that may be expected for any period in the future. Overview DoorDash, Inc. is incorporated in Delaware with headquarters in San Francisco, California. We provide a local commerce platform that enables local businesses to address consumers expectations of ease and immediacy and thrive in todays convenience economy. We operate a local commerce platform that connects merchants, consumers, and Dashers. Our primary offerings are the DoorDash Marketplace and the Wolt Marketplace, which together operate in over 25 countries across the globe. The Marketplaces provide a suite of services that enable merchants to establish an online presence, generate demand, seamlessly transact with consumers, and fulfill orders primarily through independent contractors who use our platform to deliver orders. Dashers that use our DoorDash Marketplace and Wolt Marketplace are referred to as "DoorDash Dashers" and "Wolt courier partners," respectively, in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. As part of our Marketplaces, we also offer Pickup, which allows consumers to place advance orders, skip lines, and pick up their orders conveniently with no consumer fees, as well as DoorDash for Work, which provides merchants on our platform with large group orders and catering orders for businesses and events. The DoorDash Marketplace also includes DashPass and the Wolt Marketplace includes Wolt+. DashPass and Wolt+ are our membership products, which provide members with unlimited access to eligible merchants with zero delivery fees and reduced service fees on eligible orders. In addition to our Marketplaces, we offer Platform Services, which primarily includes DoorDash Drive and Wolt Drive, which are white-label delivery fulfillment services that enable merchants that have generated consumer demand through their own channels to fulfill this demand using our platform. Platform Services also includes DoorDash Storefront, which enables merchants to create their own branded online ordering experience, providing them with a turnkey solution to offer consumers on-demand access to e-commerce without investing in in-house engineering or fulfillment capabilities, and Bbot, which offers merchants solutions for their in-store and online channels, including in-store digital ordering and payments. 25 Table of Contents Financial and Operational Highlights We use the following financial and operational metrics to help us evaluate our business, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 Total Orders 404 512 Total Orders Y/Y growth 23 % 27 % Marketplace GOV $ 12,353 $ 15,913 Marketplace GOV Y/Y growth 25 % 29 % Revenue $ 1,456 $ 2,035 Revenue Y/Y growth 35 % 40 % Net Revenue Margin 11.8 % 12.8 % GAAP Gross Profit $ 662 $ 921 GAAP Gross Profit as a % of Marketplace GOV 5.4 % 5.8 % Contribution Profit(1) $ 319 $ 533 Contribution Profit as a % of Marketplace GOV 2.6 % 3.3 % GAAP Net Loss including redeemable non-controlling interests $ (167) $ (162) GAAP Net Loss including redeemable non-controlling interests as a % of Marketplace GOV (1.4) % (1.0) % Adjusted EBITDA(1) $ 54 $ 204 Adjusted EBITDA as a % of Marketplace GOV 0.4 % 1.3 % Basic shares, options and RSUs outstanding as of period end 395 444 (1)Contribution Profit and Adjusted EBITDA are non-GAAP financial measures. For more information regarding our use of these measures and reconciliations to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP, see the section titled Non-GAAP Financial Measures." Total Orders. We define Total Orders as all orders completed through our Marketplaces and Platform Services businesses over the period of measurement. In the first quarter of 2023, Total Orders increased to 512 million, or 27% growth compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase in Total Orders was driven primarily by growth in consumers and increased consumer engagement as well as our acquisition of Wolt. Marketplace GOV. We define Marketplace GOV as the total dollar value of orders completed on our Marketplaces, including taxes, tips, and any applicable consumer fees, including membership fees related to DashPass and Wolt+. Marketplace orders include orders completed through Pickup and DoorDash for Work. Marketplace GOV does not include the dollar value of orders, taxes and tips, or fees charged to merchants, for orders fulfilled through Drive, Storefront, or Bbot. In the first quarter of 2023, Marketplace GOV increased to $15.9 billion, or 29% growth compared to the same quarter of 2022, driven primarily by organic growth in Total Orders as well as our acquisition of Wolt. Contribution Profit (Loss). We define Contribution Profit (Loss) as our gross profit (loss) less sales and marketing expense plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, and (iv) inventory write-off related to restructuring. Gross profit (loss) is defined as revenue less (i) cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization and (ii) depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue. We use Contribution Profit (Loss) to evaluate our operating performance and trends. We believe that Contribution Profit (Loss) is a useful indicator of the economic impact of orders fulfilled through DoorDash as it takes into account the direct expenses associated with generating and fulfilling orders. In the first quarter of 2023, Contribution Profit increased to $533 million, compared to $319 million in the same quarter of 2022, driven primarily by growth in Marketplace GOV, an increase in Net Revenue Margin, defined as revenue expressed 26 Table of Contents as a percentage of Marketplace GOV, and leverage on sales and marketing expenses, partially offset by an increase in cost of revenue. Contribution Profit (Loss) is a non-GAAP financial measure with certain limitations regarding its usefulness. It does not reflect our financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") as it does not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Accordingly, Contribution Profit (Loss) is not indicative of our overall results or an indicator of past or future financial performance. Further, it is not a financial measure of total company profitability and it is neither intended to be used as a proxy for total company profitability nor does it imply profitability for our business. Adjusted EBITDA. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) including redeemable non-controlling interests, adjusted to exclude (i) certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, (ii) loss on disposal of property and equipment, (iii) transaction-related costs (primarily consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs), (iv) impairment expenses, (v) restructuring charges, (vi) inventory write-off related to restructuring, (vii) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (viii) interest (income) expense, net, (ix) other (income) expense, net, (x) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and (xi) depreciation and amortization expense. Adjusted EBITDA is a performance measure that we use to assess our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. In the first quarter of 2023, Adjusted EBITDA increased to $204 million from $54 million in the same quarter of 2022, driven by growth in Contribution Profit. Free Cash Flow. We define Free Cash Flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and website development costs. In the first quarter of 2023, Free Cash Flow increased to $316 million, compared to negative Free Cash Flow of $91 million in the same quarter of 2022, driven primarily by changes in operating assets and liabilities. 27 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table summarizes our historical condensed consolidated statements of operations data: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Revenue $ 1,456 $ 2,035 Costs and expenses:(1) Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 763 1,069 Sales and marketing 414 496 Research and development 148 231 General and administrative 245 285 Depreciation and amortization(2) 59 123 Restructuring charges 2 Total costs and expenses 1,629 2,206 Loss from operations (173) (171) Interest income 1 28 Interest expense (1) Other income (expense), net 5 (1) Loss before income taxes (167) (145) Provision for income taxes 17 Net loss including redeemable non-controlling interests (167) (162) Less: net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests (1) Net loss attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders $ (167) $ (161) (1)Costs and expenses included stock-based compensation expense as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 12 $ 24 Sales and marketing 14 24 Research and development 55 98 General and administrative 48 84 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 129 $ 230 (2)Depreciation and amortization related to the following: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Cost of revenue $ 31 $ 45 Sales and marketing 6 33 Research and development 18 42 General and administrative 4 3 Total depreciation and amortization $ 59 $ 123 28 Table of Contents The following table sets forth the components of our condensed consolidated statements of operations data as a percentage of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2023 Revenue 100 % 100 % Costs and expenses: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization shown separately below 53 % 53 % Sales and marketing 28 % 24 % Research and development 10 % 11 % General and administrative 17 % 14 % Depreciation and amortization 4 % 6 % Restructuring charges % % Total costs and expenses 112 % 108 % Loss from operations (12) % (8) % Interest income % 1 % Interest expense % % Other income (expense), net % % Loss before income taxes (12) % (7) % Provision for income taxes % 1 % Net loss including redeemable non-controlling interests (12) % (8) % Less: net loss attributable to redeemable non-controlling interests % % Net loss attributable to DoorDash, Inc. common stockholders (12) % (8) % Comparison of the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 and 2023 Revenue We generate a substantial majority of our revenue from orders completed through our Marketplaces and the related commissions charged to partner merchants and fees charged to consumers. Commissions from partner merchants are based on an agreed-upon rate applied to the total dollar value of goods ordered in exchange for using our Marketplaces to sell the partner merchants products. Fees from consumers are for use of our Marketplaces to arrange for delivery services. We recognize revenue from Marketplace orders on a net basis as we are an agent for both partner merchants and consumers. Our revenue therefore reflects commissions charged to partner merchants and fees charged to consumers less (i) Dasher payout and (ii) refunds, credits, and promotions, which includes certain discounts and incentives provided to consumers, including those for referring a new customer. Revenue from our Marketplaces is recognized at the point in time when the consumer obtains control of the merchants products. We also generate revenue from membership fees paid by consumers for DashPass and Wolt+, which is recognized as part of our Marketplaces revenue. Revenue generated from our DashPass and Wolt+ memberships is recognized on a ratable basis over the contractual period, which is generally one month to one year depending on the type of membership purchased by the consumer. In addition, we generate revenue from other sources, including from our Platform Services, which primarily consists of our Drive and Storefront offerings. We generate revenue from Drive by collecting per-order fees from merchants to arrange for delivery services that fulfill demand generated through their own channels. Revenue from Drive is recognized at the point in time when the consumer obtains control of the merchants products. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Revenue $ 1,456 $ 2,035 40 % Revenue increased by $579 million, or 40%, during the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by a 29% increase in Marketplace GOV to $15.9 billion. On a year-over-year basis, revenue for the first quarter of 2023 grew at a faster rate than Marketplace GOV primarily due to improved logistics efficiency. 29 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue, Exclusive of Depreciation and Amortization Cost of revenue primarily consists of (i) order management costs, which include payment processing charges, net of rebates issued from payment processors, costs associated with cancelled orders, insurance expenses, costs related to placing orders with non-partner merchants, and costs related to first party product sales, for which we take control of inventory, (ii) platform costs, which include costs for onboarding merchants and Dashers, costs for providing support for consumers, merchants, and Dashers, and technology platform infrastructure costs, and (iii) personnel costs, which include personnel-related compensation expenses related to our local operations, support, and other teams, and allocated overhead. Personnel-related compensation expenses primarily include salary, bonus, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense. Allocated overhead is determined based on an allocation of shared costs, such as facilities (including rent and utilities) and information technology costs, among all departments based on employee headcount. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 763 $ 1,069 40 % Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased by $306 million, or 40%, for the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $203 million in order management costs and an increase of $29 million in platform costs, driven primarily by growth in Total Orders. Order management costs also increased due to an increase in insurance reserves, and costs associated with our first-party distribution business. Additionally, personnel-related compensation expenses and allocated overhead increased by $66 million driven by increased headcount. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and other ancillary expenses related to merchant, consumer, and Dasher acquisition, including certain consumer referral credits and Dasher referral fees paid to the referrers to the extent they represent fair value of acquiring a new consumer or a new Dasher, brand marketing expenses, personnel-related compensation expenses for sales and marketing employees, and commissions expense including amortization of deferred contract costs, as well as allocated overhead. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Sales and marketing $ 414 $ 496 20 % Sales and marketing expenses increased by $82 million, or 20%, for the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $51 million in advertising expenses and an increase of $25 million in personnel-related compensation expenses and allocated overhead driven by increased headcount. Research and Development Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel-related compensation expenses related to data analytics and the design of, product development of, and improvements to our platform, as well as expenses associated with the licensing of third-party software and allocated overhead. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Research and development $ 148 $ 231 56 % Research and development expenses increased by $83 million, or 56%, for the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $93 million in personnel-related compensation expenses and allocated overhead driven by increased headcount, partially offset by an increase in capitalized software and website development costs of $12 million. 30 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of legal, tax, and regulatory expenses, which include litigation settlement expenses and sales and indirect taxes, personnel-related compensation expenses related to administrative employees, which include finance and accounting, human resources and legal, chargebacks associated with fraudulent credit card transactions, professional services fees, transaction-related costs, bad debt expense, and allocated overhead. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change General and administrative $ 245 $ 285 16 % General and administrative expenses increased by $40 million, or 16%, for the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $52 million in personnel-related compensation expenses and allocated overhead driven by increased headcount, offset by a decrease in transaction-related costs of $12 million. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expenses primarily consist of depreciation and amortization expenses associated with our property and equipment and intangible assets. Depreciation primarily includes expenses associated with equipment for merchants, computer equipment and software, office equipment, and leasehold improvements. Amortization includes expenses associated with our capitalized software and website development costs, as well as acquired intangible assets. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Depreciation and amortization $ 59 $ 123 108 % Depreciation and amortization expenses increased by $64 million, or 108%, for the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase of $30 million of amortization expenses for acquired intangible assets and an increase of $28 million in amortization expense related to increased capitalized software and website development costs. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges primarily consist of separation-related payments and other termination benefit costs associated with a reduction in workforce that is discussed in further detail in Note 12 "Restructuring" included in Part I, Item 1, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Restructuring charges $ $ 2 * *Percentage not meaningful. Restructuring charges was not material in the periods presented. Interest Income Interest income consists of interest earned on our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Interest income $ 1 $ 28 * *Percentage not meaningful. Interest income increased by $27 million for the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in average interest rates earned on marketable securities during 2023. 31 Table of Contents Interest Expense Interest expense primarily consists of interest costs related to our credit facility. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Interest expense $ $ (1) * *Percentage not meaningful. Interest expense was not material in the periods presented. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net primarily consists of gains and losses from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Other income (expense), net $ 5 $ (1) * *Percentage not meaningful. Other expense, net was not material in the periods presented. Provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes is primarily attributable to U.S. income tax expense, as well as income tax expense attributable to foreign operations. Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 % Change Provision for income taxes $ $ 17 * *Percentage not meaningful. The provision for income taxes increased by $17 million for the first quarter of 2023, compared to the same quarter of 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase in U.S. taxable income. Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss), Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow in conjunction with GAAP measures as part of our overall assessment of our performance, including the preparation of our annual operating budget and quarterly forecasts, to evaluate the effectiveness of our business strategies and to communicate with our board of directors concerning our business and financial performance. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors about our business and financial performance, enhance their overall understanding of our past performance and future prospects, and allow for greater transparency with respect to metrics used by our management in their financial and operational decision making. We are presenting these non-GAAP financial measures to assist investors in seeing our business and financial performance through the eyes of management, and because we believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide an additional tool for investors to use in comparing results of operations of our business over multiple periods with other companies in our industry. Our definitions may differ from the definitions used by other companies and therefore comparability may be limited. In addition, other companies may not publish these or similar metrics. Further, these metrics have certain limitations in that they do not include the impact of certain expenses that are reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Thus, our adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, 32 Table of Contents Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss), Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow should be considered in addition to, not as substitutes for, or in isolation from, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by providing a reconciliation of adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss), Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, and Free Cash Flow to their respective related GAAP financial measures. We encourage investors and others to review our business, results of operations, and financial information in its entirety, not to rely on any single financial measure, and to view adjusted cost of revenue, adjusted sales and marketing expense, adjusted research and development expense, adjusted general and administrative expense, Contribution Profit (Loss), Contribution Margin, Adjusted Gross Profit, Adjusted Gross Margin, Adjusted EBITDA and Free Cash Flow in conjunction with their respective related GAAP financial measures. Adjusted Cost of Revenue We define adjusted cost of revenue as cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, allocated overhead, and inventory write off related to restructuring. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. The following table provides a reconciliation of cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, to adjusted cost of revenue: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization $ 763 $ 1,069 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (12) (24) Allocated overhead (9) (9) Adjusted cost of revenue $ 742 $ 1,036 Adjusted Sales and Marketing Expense We define adjusted sales and marketing expense as sales and marketing expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and allocated overhead. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. The following table provides a reconciliation of sales and marketing expense to adjusted sales and marketing expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Sales and marketing $ 414 $ 496 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (14) (24) Allocated overhead (5) (6) Adjusted sales and marketing $ 395 $ 466 Adjusted Research and Development Expense We define adjusted research and development expense as research and development expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and allocated overhead. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude allocated overhead as it is generally a fixed cost and is not directly impacted by Total Orders. 33 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of research and development expense to adjusted research and development expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Research and development $ 148 $ 231 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (56) (98) Allocated overhead (4) (4) Adjusted research and development $ 88 $ 129 Adjusted General and Administrative Expense We define adjusted general and administrative expense as general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, transaction-related costs (primarily consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs), impairment expenses, and including allocated overhead from cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and research and development. We exclude stock-based compensation as it is non-cash in nature and we exclude certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, transaction-related costs, as well as impairment expenses, as these costs are not indicative of our operating performance. The following table provides a reconciliation of general and administrative expense to adjusted general and administrative expense: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 General and administrative $ 245 $ 285 Adjusted to exclude the following: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense (48) (84) Certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses(1) (24) (19) Transaction-related costs(2) (14) (1) Allocated overhead from cost of revenue, sales and marketing, and research and development 18 19 Adjusted general and administrative $ 177 $ 200 (1)We exclude certain costs and expenses from our calculation of adjusted general and administrative expense because management believes that these costs and expenses are not indicative of our core operating performance, do not reflect the underlying economics of our business, and are not necessary to operate our business. These excluded costs and expenses consist of (i) certain legal costs primarily related to worker classification matters, (ii) reserves and settlements or other resolutions for or related to the collection of sales, indirect, and other taxes that we do not expect to incur on a recurring basis, (iii) costs related to the settlement of an intellectual property matter, (iv) expenses related to supporting various policy matters, including those related to worker classification and price controls, and (v) donations as part of our relief efforts in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and Russia's invasion of Ukraine. We believe it is appropriate to exclude the foregoing matters from our calculation of adjusted general and administrative expense because (1) the timing and magnitude of such expenses are unpredictable and thus not part of managements budgeting or forecasting process, and (2) with respect to worker classification matters, management currently expects such expenses will not be material to our results of operations over the long term as a result of increasing legislative and regulatory certainty in this area, including as a result of Proposition 22 in California and similar legislation. (2)Consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs, primarily related to the Wolt acquisition. Contribution Profit (Loss) We use Contribution Profit (Loss) to evaluate our operating performance and trends. We believe that Contribution Profit (Loss) is a useful indicator of the economic impact of orders fulfilled through DoorDash as it takes into account the direct expenses associated with generating and fulfilling orders. We define Contribution Profit (Loss) as our gross profit (loss) less sales and marketing expense plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing expenses, and (iv) inventory write off related to restructuring. We define gross margin as gross profit (loss) as a percentage of revenue for the same period and we define Contribution Margin as Contribution Profit (Loss) as a percentage of revenue for the same period. 34 Table of Contents Gross profit (loss) is the most directly comparable financial measure to Contribution Profit (Loss). The following table provides a reconciliation of gross profit to Contribution Profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 Revenue $ 1,456 $ 2,035 Less: Cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization (763) (1,069) Less: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue (31) (45) Gross profit $ 662 $ 921 Gross Margin 45.5 % 45.3 % Less: Sales and marketing $ (414) $ (496) Add: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue 31 45 Add: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing 26 48 Add: Allocated overhead included in cost of revenue and sales and marketing 14 15 Contribution Profit $ 319 $ 533 Contribution Margin 21.9 % 26.2 % Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss) We define Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss) as gross profit (loss) plus (i) depreciation and amortization expense related to cost of revenue, (ii) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue, (iii) allocated overhead included in cost of revenue, and (iv) inventory write off related to restructuring. Gross profit (loss) is defined as revenue less (i) cost of revenue, exclusive of depreciation and amortization and (ii) depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue. Adjusted Gross Margin is defined as Adjusted Gross Profit (Loss) as a percentage of revenue for the same period. The following table provides a reconciliation of gross profit to Adjusted Gross Profit: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions, except percentages) 2022 2023 Gross profit $ 662 $ 921 Add: Depreciation and amortization related to cost of revenue 31 45 Add: Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense included in cost of revenue 12 24 Add: Allocated overhead included in cost of revenue 9 9 Adjusted Gross Profit $ 714 $ 999 Adjusted Gross Margin 49.0 % 49.1 % Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is a measure that we use to assess our operating performance and the operating leverage in our business. We define Adjusted EBITDA as net income (loss) including redeemable non-controlling interests, adjusted to exclude (i) certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses, (ii) loss on disposal of property and equipment, (iii) transaction-related costs (primarily consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs), (iv) impairment expenses, (v) restructuring charges, (vi) inventory write off related to restructuring, (vii) provision for (benefit from) income taxes, (viii) interest (income) expense, net, (ix) other (income) expense, net, (x) stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense, and (xi) depreciation and amortization expense. 35 Table of Contents The following table provides a reconciliation of net loss including redeemable non-controlling interests to Adjusted EBITDA: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Net loss including redeemable non-controlling interests $ (167) $ (162) Certain legal, tax, and regulatory settlements, reserves, and expenses(1) 24 19 Transaction-related costs(2) 14 1 Restructuring charges 2 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes 17 Interest (income) expense, net (1) (27) Other (income) expense, net (5) 1 Stock-based compensation expense and certain payroll tax expense 130 230 Depreciation and amortization expense 59 123 Adjusted EBITDA $ 54 $ 204 (1)We exclude certain costs and expenses from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA because management believes that these costs and expenses are not indicative of our core operating performance, do not reflect the underlying economics of our business, and are not necessary to operate our business. These excluded costs and expenses consist of (i) certain legal costs primarily related to worker classification matters, (ii) reserves and settlements or other resolutions for or related to the collection of sales, indirect, and other taxes that we do not expect to incur on a recurring basis, (iii) costs related to the settlement of an intellectual property matter, (iv) expenses related to supporting various policy matters, including those related to worker classification and price controls, and (v) donations as part of our relief efforts in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic and Russia's invasion of Ukraine. We believe it is appropriate to exclude the foregoing matters from our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA because (1) the timing and magnitude of such expenses are unpredictable and thus not part of managements budgeting or forecasting process, and (2) with respect to worker classification matters, management currently expects such expenses will not be material to our results of operations over the long term as a result of increasing legislative and regulatory certainty in this area, including as a result of Proposition 22 in California and similar legislation. (2)Consists of acquisition, integration, and investment related costs, primarily related to the Wolt acquisition. Free Cash Flow We define Free Cash Flow as cash flows from operating activities less purchases of property and equipment and capitalized software and website development costs. The following table provides a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to Free Cash Flow: Three Months Ended March 31, (in millions) 2022 2023 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (20) $ 397 Purchases of property and equipment (32) (39) Capitalized software and website development costs (39) (42) Free Cash Flow $ (91) $ 316 Credit Facilities On November 19, 2019, we entered into a revolving credit and guaranty agreement with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., an affiliate of J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, and Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC, an affiliate of Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, which, as amended and restated on August 7, 2020, and further amended on October 31, 2022, provides for a $300 million unsecured revolving credit facility maturing on August 7, 2025, which increased to $400 million in aggregate revolving commitments upon the consummation of an initial public offering, with a sublimit for the issuance of letters of credit in an aggregate face amount of up to $200 million. Loans under the credit facility bear interest, at our option, at (i) a base rate equal to the highest of (A) the prime rate, (B) the higher of the federal funds rate or a composite overnight bank borrowing rate plus 0.50%, or (C) an adjusted SOFR rate for a one-month interest period plus 1.00%, or (ii) an adjusted SOFR rate (based on an interest period of one, three, or six months) rate plus a margin equal to 1.00%. We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type, including letter of credit fees, an upfront fee, and an unused commitment fee. As of March 31, 2023, we were in compliance with the covenants under the revolving credit and guaranty agreement. As of December 31, 2022 and March 31, 2023, no revolving loans were outstanding under the credit facility. 36 Table of Contents We maintain letters of credit established primarily for real estate leases and insurance policies. As of December 31, 2022 and March 31, 2023, we had $132 million and $133 million of issued letters of credit outstanding, respectively, of which $99 million and $99 million were issued under the revolving credit and guaranty agreement. Liquidity and Capital Resources In December 2020, we completed our IPO in which we received net proceeds of $3.3 billion from sales of shares of our Class A common stock in the IPO, after deducting underwriting discounts and commissions. As of March 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities of $3.7 billion, which consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $1.8 billion, short-term marketable securities of $1.6 billion and long-term marketable securities of $314 million. Additionally, funds held at payment processors of $290 million represent cash due from our payment processors for cleared transactions with merchants and consumers, as well as funds remitted to payment processors for Dasher payout. Cash and cash equivalents consisted of cash on deposit with banks as well as institutional money market funds, commercial paper, and U.S. Treasury securities. Marketable securities consisted of commercial paper, corporate bonds, U.S. government agency securities, and U.S. Treasury securities. We have generated significant operating losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $4.4 billion as of March 31, 2023. To execute on our strategic initiatives to continue to grow our business, we may incur operating losses and generate negative cash flows from operations in the future, and as a result, we may require additional capital resources. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities, along with the $400 million in available borrowings under our unsecured revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditures needs for at least the next 12 months and beyond. We have an obligation to our insurance provider which requires us to set aside collateral of $265 million in an escrow account which is restricted from general use. In February 2023, our board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $750 million of our Class A common stock. Repurchases may be made from time to time through open market purchases or through privately negotiated transactions subject to market conditions, applicable legal requirements, and other relevant factors. Open market repurchases may be structured to occur in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 of the Exchange Act. We may also, from time to time, enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans to facilitate repurchases of our Class A common stock under this authorization. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased may depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions, and alternative investment opportunities. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including, but not limited to our growth, our ability to attract and retain merchants, consumers, and Dashers that utilize our platform, the continuing market acceptance of our offerings, the timing and extent of spending to support our efforts to develop our platform, and the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of spending for policy and worker classification initiatives. Further, we may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in businesses, products, services, and technologies. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, (In millions) 2022 2023 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (20) $ 397 Net cash used in investing activities (246) (10) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 5 (390) Foreign currency effect on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash 1 1 Net decrease in cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash $ (260) $ (2) Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities was $397 million for the first quarter of 2023. This consisted of a net loss, including redeemable non-controlling interests, of $162 million, offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $230 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $123 million, non-cash reduction of operating lease right-of-use assets and accretion of operating lease liabilities of $32 million, and other net non-cash expenses of $4 million, as 37 Table of Contents well as $170 million net inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily driven by an decrease in our funds held at payment processors. Cash used in operating activities was $20 million for the first quarter of 2022. This primarily consisted of a net loss, including redeemable non-controlling interests, of $167 million, offset by non-cash stock-based compensation expense of $129 million, non-cash depreciation and amortization expense of $59 million, non-cash reduction of operating lease right-of-use assets and accretion of operating lease liabilities of $16 million, as well as $60 million net outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily driven by an increase in our prepaid expenses. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $10 million for the first quarter of 2023, which primarily consisted of purchases of marketable securities of $434 million, purchases of property and equipment of $39 million, and cash outflows for capitalized software and website development costs of $42 million, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $506 million. Cash used in investing activities was $246 million for the first quarter of 2022, which primarily consisted of cash paid for acquisition, net of cash acquired, of $71 million, purchases of marketable securities of $656 million, cash outflows for capitalized software and website development costs of $39 million and purchases of property and equipment of $32 million, partially offset by proceeds from maturities and sales of marketable securities of $552 million. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $390 million for the first quarter of 2023, which consisted of repurchases of Class A common stock of $392 million, partially offset by the proceeds from exercise of stock options of $2 million. Cash provided by financing activities was $5 million for the first quarter of 2022, which was the proceeds from exercise of stock options. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make certain estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the related disclosures at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the period presented. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from our estimates. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be affected. There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and estimates as described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022.