Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information, including the effects of COVID-19 on our operations. Chamberlain Approximately 30% of Chamberlains students are based at campus locations and pursuing their BSN degree; as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak, all campus-based students transitioned to online learning for didactic and select clinical experiences. The remaining 70% of Chamberlains students are enrolled in online programs that may or may not have clinical components and those programs are continuing to successfully operate. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or costs increases at Chamberlain in fiscal year 2020. The extent of the impact in fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and whether the pandemic affects healthcare facilities ability to continue to provide clinical experiences, some of which had resumed as of July 2020. Chamberlain has clinical partnerships with healthcare facilities across the U.S., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. AUC and RUSM Medical students enrolled in the basic science portion of their program have transitioned to online learning. Many students have moved from St. Maarten and Barbados and are continuing their studies remotely from other locations. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science programs at the medical schools in fiscal year 2020. The virus will likely have minimal impact on the basic science program revenue in fiscal year 2021, unless students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. At this time, AUC and RUSM have seen mixed signals from prospective students. The extent of the impact in fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the economic effects of COVID-19. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations in the U.S. (and in the U.K. for AUC). Onsite clinical rotations for all students were temporarily suspended in March 2020; however, some students were able to participate in online clinical elective courses from April through June 2020. This suspension reduced combined revenue and reduced combined operating income in fiscal year 2020 at AUC and RUSM. The suspension will likely have a negative effect on revenue and operating income in the first half of fiscal year 2021 and for as long as the pandemic affects hospitals ability to provide clinical experiences. Based on recent surveys, almost all of the clinical partners of AUC and RUSM have or are currently planning to resume their clinical programs between July and October 2020. Adtalem has clinical partnerships with hospitals across the U.S. (and in the U.K. for AUC), minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. In addition to the loss of clinical revenue and operating income, housing revenue and operating income was also lost due to students moving off of St. Maarten and Barbados to continue basic science studies remotely. Other key events effecting operations due to COVID-19 include the following: (i) waived MCAT and other entrance exam requirements as allowed by ED; (ii) USMLE, Step 2 Clinical Skills testing is not currently available. This has been a requirement for graduation and for certification by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates to enter the U.S. residency match. ECFMG has developed alternative pathways to replace this requirement; and (iii) flexibility to use online clinical training has been allowed by accreditors and other U.S. regulatory bodies. These alternatives are critical to keeping many students on track to graduate and enter the 2021 residency match. RUSVM All basic science veterinary students transitioned to online learning beginning in March 2020. Many students moved from St. Kitts in March 2020 to continue their studies remotely from other locations. A portion of students at specific junctures of their basic science education have traveled back to St. Kitts in July 2020 and will resume classroom-based learning in August 2020. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or cost increases within the basic science 8 Table of Contents program in fiscal year 2020. The virus will likely have minimal impact on the basic science program in fiscal year 2021, unless students choose not to continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty, RUSVM has seen limited indications of this to date. The extent of the impact on the basic science program in fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations at select universities in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and Europe. A few universities have suspended onsite clinical experiences and transitioned students to online education, while other universities have continued to offer onsite clinical courses. The suspensions did not significantly reduce revenue or operating income in fiscal year 2020. The extent of the impact on clinical experiences in fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the economic effects of COVID-19, but we do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 at RUSVM. Financial Services Most Financial Services content, including exam preparation, certification training, continuing education, and subscriptions is delivered online. Any classroom-based learning has been moved to online. No significant COVID-19 related costs increases were realized in Financial Services in fiscal year 2020; however, COVID-19 resulted in revenue losses and operating income losses in Financial Services in fiscal year 2020, driven principally by the cancellation of ACAMS live conferences and at Becker from Prometric closing CPA testing sites, along with a number of CPA firms either delaying start dates for, or rescinded altogether, offers of employment to recent college graduates. This dampened a key driver of demand in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, which is normally a time of robust demand because of the influx of new college graduates looking to begin their CPA exam preparation. ACAMS live conference revenue will not be realized so long as social distancing and group gathering is limited. The virus is expected to negatively impact Financial Services revenue and operating income in fiscal year 2021, again driven by the loss of ACAMS live conference revenue and continued weakness in demand at Becker. A virtual conference was conducted in June 2020 and it is possible some conference revenue could be replaced with virtual events in the future, but loss of conference revenue is likely as ACAMS has canceled all live conferences through December 2020. Virtual conferences are unlikely to generate the same level of revenue and operating income as live conferences. Management believes that other than the ACAMS conferences, longer-term operating results in the Financial Services segment will not be significantly affected by COVID-19 unless there are major employment losses with accounting professionals and recent accounting graduates, or in the banking and mortgage sectors. This is not known and cannot be predicted at this time. At Becker, CPA testing sites began reopening in June 2020 at limited capacity, however, hiring at CPA firms has not yet fully recovered. Administrative Operations Most institution and home office administrative operations continue to be delivered and performed remotely. This includes operations both in the U.S. and in all foreign locations. These remote work arrangements have not adversely affected Adtalems ability to maintain operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure