Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Aid, each of Carrington College-Phoenix, RUSM, Carrington College-California are also undergoing comprehensive program reviews by ED and, separately, DeVry University received a preliminary program review from ED that identified findings relating to its fiscal administration, student eligibility and administrative capability. The coordinated scrutiny facing the industry and us could directly or indirectly influence the disposition of these existing inquiries, administrative actions and claims or lead to the initiation of other inquiries, administrative actions or claims, which could, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. 53 Adverse publicity arising from investigations, claims or actions brought against us or other proprietary higher education institutions may negatively affect our reputation, business or stock price, or attract additional investigations, lawsuits or regulatory action, which could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Adverse publicity regarding any pending or future investigations, claims and/or actions against us or other proprietary institutions could negatively affect our reputation, business and/or the market price of our common stock. Unresolved investigations, claims and actions, or adverse resolutions or settlements thereof, could also result in additional inquiries, administrative actions or lawsuits, increased scrutiny, the withholding of authorizations and/or the imposition of other sanctions by state education and professional licensing authorities, taxing authorities, our accreditors and other regulatory agencies governing us, which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties have initiated, and could initiate additional investigations, claims or actions against us, which could require us to pay monetary damages, halt certain business practices or receive other sanctions. The defense and resolution of these matters could require us to expend significant resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate . As described in Part II, Item 1 Legal Proceedings, state attorneys general from Illinois, New York and Massachusetts have initiated inquiries into the practices of our institutions and, in related actions, the FTC has filed a civil complaint against DeVry Group and entities related to DeVry University and ED has notified DeVry University of its intention to impose certain limitations on DeVry University regarding disclosures of certain post-graduate employment outcomes and impose other restrictions and requirements. Additionally, as described in Part II, Item 2 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Financial Aid, each of Carrington College-Phoenix, RUSM, Carrington College-California are also undergoing comprehensive program reviews by ED and, separately, DeVry University received a preliminary program review from ED that identified findings relating to its fiscal administration, student eligibility and administrative capability. Due to the coordinated regulatory and enforcement efforts directed at us and other proprietary postsecondary higher education institutions and adverse publicity arising from such efforts, we may face additional government and regulatory investigations and actions, lawsuits from private plaintiffs and shareholder derivative claims. We may incur significant costs and other expenses in connection with our response to, and defense, resolution or settlement of, investigations, claims or actions, or group of related investigations, claims or actions, which, individually or in the aggregate, could be outside the scope of, or in excess of, our existing insurance coverage and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. As part of our resolution of any such matter, or group of related matters, we may be required to comply with certain injunctive relief, including altering certain business practices, or pay substantial damages, settlement costs, fines and/or penalties. In addition, findings or claims or settlements thereof could serve as a basis for additional lawsuits or governmental inquiries or enforcement actions, including actions under EDs expected Defense to Repayment Regulations. Such actions, individually or combined with other proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Additionally, an adverse allegation, finding or outcome in any of these matters could also materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain, obtain or renew licenses, approvals or accreditation and maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV, DoD and VA programs or serve as a basis for ED to discharge certain Title IV student loans and seek recovery for some or all of its resulting losses from us under EDs expected Defense to Repayment Regulations, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. ED is pursuing the development of regulations setting forth new standards and procedures related to borrower defenses to repayment of Title IV loan obligations, and EDs rights and processes against institutions following a successful borrower defense. While the ultimate scope of these regulations remains unclear, it is possible that a finding or allegation arising from current or future legal proceedings or governmental administrative actions, may create significant liability under the new regulations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. 54 On August 20, 2015, the ED announced its intention to establish a negotiated rulemaking committee to develop proposed regulations (collectively, the Defense to Repayment Regulations) for determining the criteria and procedures ED will use for determining which Title IV borrower obligations to forgive under Defense to Repayment claims, and the standards and processes to be applied in determining whether institutions whose acts or omissions serve as the basis of such debt forgiveness are liable. The Defense to Repayment rulemaking also considered expansion of the financial responsibility standards, including the prohibition of mandatory arbitration provisions in student enrollment agreements and automatic and discretionary triggers serving as the basis posting letters of credit with ED. ED convened a negotiated rulemaking committee and concluded its negotiations on March 18, 2016 without consensus on a package of rules for determining those criteria and procedures. The failure of the committee to reach consensus frees ED to propose rules beyond those discussed and agreed to within the committee. Should ED proceed with the rulemaking and issue proposed rules they may include rules that serve as a basis for requiring Title IV institutions to pay for, or provide security against, losses arising from loan forgiveness granted by ED to borrowers in connection with the borrowers attendance at the participating institutions. Depending on the processes and standards adopted by ED in the Defense to Repayment Regulations, which we cannot predict at this time, in addition to the outcome from any legal proceeding instituted by a private party or governmental authority, facts asserted in pending or future lawsuits or the outcome of any pending or future governmental inquiry, lawsuit or enforcement action could serve as the basis for claim by ED under the Defense to Repayment regulations, the posting of substantial letters of credit, or the termination of eligibility of one of our institutions to participate in the Title IV program based on EDs institutional capability assessment, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Regardless of the merits of our actions, while we intend to defend ourselves vigorously in all pending and future legal proceedings, we may settle certain matters for strategic reasons, as a part of a resolution of other matters, or in order to avoid potentially worse consequences arising from inherently uncertain judicial or administrative processes. Moreover, regardless of the merits of our defenses, if we are unable to resolve certain legal proceedings or regulatory actions, indirect consequences arising from unproven allegations or appealable regulatory findings may cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. While the final Defense to Repayment regulations remain uncertain, certain constituencies are advocating for standards and processes that would afford holders of federal student loans the broadest relief, potentially arising from certain findings, in pending or future governmental inquiries, lawsuits or enforcement actions against us. Despite the merits of our actions and defense, we may settle certain matters for strategic reasons, as a part of a resolution of other matters, or in order to avoid potentially worse consequences in inherently uncertain judicial or administrative processes. The terms of such settlement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Additionally, although inconsistent with its usual practices, ED has broad discretion to impose significant limitations on us arising from acts it determines are in violation of their regulations, including potentially through the new Defense to Repayment regulations. As a result, foreseeable and unforeseen consequences of adjudicated or settled legal proceedings and regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. If draft Defense to Repayment regulations circulated at an ED negotiated rulemaking session are ultimately adopted by ED, pending or future lawsuits, investigations, program reviews and other events could each trigger, automatically or in some cases at EDs discretion, the posting of letters of credit or other security that, in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Draft Defense to Repayment regulations discussed at the recent ED negotiated rulemaking session, if ultimately adopted by ED, could require DeVry Group to post multiple and substantial letters of credit or other security in connection with, among other things, certain pending and future claims, investigations and program reviews, regardless of our compliance, the merits of our defenses, or, potentially, the severity of any findings or facts stipulated. The aggregate amount of these letters of credit or other required security could materially and adversely limit our borrowing capacity under our credit agreement and our ability to make capital expenditures to sustain, grow and diversify our operations, fund our operations and make dividend payments to shareholders. DeVry Groups credit agreement allows DeVry Group to post up to $50 million of letters of credit. In the event DeVry Group is required to post letters of credit in excess of the $50 million limit, DeVry Group would be required to seek an amendment to its credit agreement or seek an alternative means of providing security required under by ED. DeVry Group may not be able to obtain the excess letters of credit or security or may be only be able to obtain such excess letters of credit or security at significant cost. 55 We are subject to risks relating to regulatory matters. If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our operations, we could face fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal and state student financial aid for our students as well as significant civil liability, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. As a provider of higher education, we are subject to extensive regulation. These regulatory requirements cover virtually all phases and aspects of our U.S. postsecondary operations, including educational program offerings, facilities, civil rights, safety, privacy, instructional and administrative staff, administrative procedures, marketing and recruiting, financial operations, payment of refunds to students who withdraw, acquisitions or openings of new schools or programs, addition of new educational programs and changes in our corporate structure and ownership. In particular, in the U.S., the Higher Education Act, as amended and reauthorized (the Higher Education Act), subjects our U.S. degree-granting institutions (DeVry University, Chamberlain and Carrington) and all other higher education institutions, including our AUC, RUSM and RUSVM schools, that participate in the various federal student financial aid programs under Title IV of the Higher Education Act (Title IV) to significant regulatory scrutiny. To participate in Title IV financial aid programs, an institution must receive and maintain authorization by the appropriate state education agencies, be accredited by an accrediting commission recognized by the ED, and be certified by ED as an eligible institution, which ultimately is accomplished through the execution of a Program Participation Agreement (PPA). Our institutions that participate in Title IV programs each do so pursuant to a PPA that, among other things, includes commitments to abide by all applicable laws and regulations, such as the Incentive Compensation, Substantial Misrepresentation, and Gainful Employment (GE) regulations. Alleged violations of such laws or regulations may form the basis of civil actions for violation of state and/or federal false claims statutes predicated on violations of a PPA, including pursuant to lawsuits brought by private plaintiffs on behalf of governments ( qui tam actions), that have the potential to generate very significant damages linked to our receipt of Title IV funding from the government over a period of several years. As described in Part II, Item 1 Legal Proceedings, on January 27, 2016, DeVry University received a Notice of Intent to Limit from ED (the January 2016 Notice) informing DeVry University of EDs intention to impose certain limitations on the participation of DeVry University in programs authorized pursuant to Title IV. DeVry University has requested a hearing on EDs decision, and will collaborate closely with the ED to demonstrate DeVry Universitys compliance and resolve this matter satisfactorily. In the event DeVry University is unable to demonstrate its compliance or otherwise resolve this matter satisfactorily, the January 2016 Notice would become effective, thus requiring, in addition to certain specified actions related to the alleged violations, DeVry University (1) to file a letter of credit with ED in an amount at least equal to 10% of the Title IV funds disbursed by DeVry University in fiscal year 2015, which would reduce DeVry Groups available credit under our revolving credit facility and/or cash balances by an amount equal to the letter of credit, and (2) to disburse funds under either EDs cash monitoring or reimbursement payment method, the latter of which could result in delayed, potentially substantial, disbursements of Title IV funds. DeVry University would also be placed on provisional certification for Title IV eligibility, during which time it would be required to obtain prior ED approval to open a new location, add an educational program, or make certain substantive changes. Provisional certification status carries fewer due process protections than full certification. As a result, the ED may withdraw an institutions provisional certification more easily than if it is fully certified. Provisional certification does not otherwise limit access to Title IV program funds by students attending the institution. On October 31, 2014, the ED published new GE regulations impacting programs required to prepare graduates for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Almost all academic programs offered by Title IV-participating private sector institutions of higher education must prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. The new GE regulations were effective July 1, 2015. The new GE regulations have a framework with three components: Certification: Institutions must certify that each of their gainful employment programs meet applicable state and federal licensure, certification, and accreditation requirements. Accountability Measures: To maintain Title IV eligibility, gainful employment programs will be required to meet minimum standards for the debt burden versus the income of their graduates. Gainful employment programs will be considered passing, in the zone, or failing for each year in which the accountability measures are calculated, described as follows: 56 Pass: Programs whose graduates have an assumed annual loan repayment burden of 8% or less of total earnings or 20% or less of discretionary income. Zone: Programs whose graduates have an assumed annual loan repayment burden between 8% and 12% of total earnings or between 20% and 30% of discretionary income. Fail: Programs whose graduates have an assumed annual loan repayment burden greater than 12% of total earnings and greater than 30% of discretionary income. Programs that fail in two out of any three consecutive years or do not pass for four consecutive years will be disqualified from participation in the Title IV programs for a period of three years, and an institution is prohibited from establishing Title IV eligibility for any substantially similar program. Transparency: Institutions are required to make annual public disclosures regarding the performance and outcomes of their gainful employment programs. The disclosures include information regarding program costs, median debt of all graduates and completion and placement rates and may include additional disclosure items beginning in 2017. The accountability measures will typically weigh a calculated debt burden of graduates who completed their studies three and four years prior to the measuring academic year against earnings from the most recent calendar year prior to the conclusion of the measuring academic year. Thus for the 2014-2015 academic year (the first measurement year under these regulations), the cohort will typically include graduates from the 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 academic years and the calculation will compare the median debt incurred by these graduates to their earnings in calendar year 2014. These figures are not available at this time. Debt burdens for students enrolled in programs that require an internship or residency prior to licensure, such as the medical doctor degrees offered by AUC and RUSM, are calculated from cohorts who completed their studies six and seven years prior to the measuring academic year. Draft measures for the 2014-2015 academic year are expected to be released to the institutions in late summer 2016 and final measures released publicly in early 2017. Because the earnings information necessary to determine how our programs will fare under the accountability measures is not available at this time, we are unable to fully predict accurately the impact of the new GE accountability measures. The regulations contemplate a transition period in the first several years to afford institutions the opportunity to make changes to their programs and retain Title IV eligibility. We are using currently-available data to evaluate whether certain of our programs are at risk to fail the new requirements, or fall into the zone, and concurrently evaluating available options to bring at-risk programs into compliance. Under this framework, we believe that less than 10% of the 2014-2015 academic year programs across DeVry University and Carrington are at risk of falling into the failing category. In addition, there are a number of programs that are at risk of falling into the Zone category, including the RUSVMs Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Program. Management expects that certain programs will be able to avoid falling into the zone or failing categories through adjustments to program price, including through scholarships, or, if appropriate and consistent with programmatic standards, the duration of programs. For programs where such adjustments are not feasible, which may include RUSVMs Doctor of Veterinary Medicine Program, we may discontinue such programs or seek to establish relationships with third-party lenders to support student tuition and other expenses. These adjustments could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Department of Education rules prohibiting substantial misrepresentation are very broad. As a result, we face increased exposure to litigation arising from student and prospective student complaints and enforcement actions by the Department of Education that could restrict or eliminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. The ED rules and internal guidance impose liability for "substantial misrepresentation" that, among other things, subject us to sanctions for statements containing inadvertent errors made to non-students, including any member of the public, impose vicarious liability on us for the conduct of others, and expose us to liability even when no actual harm occurs. It is possible that despite our efforts to prevent such misrepresentations, our employees or service providers may make statements that could be construed as substantial misrepresentations. As a result, we may face complaints from students and prospective students over statements made by us and our agents throughout the enrollment, admissions and financial aid process, as well as throughout attendance at any of our U.S. degree-granting schools, which would expose us to increased risk of enforcement action and applicable sanctions or other penalties and increased risk of private qui tam actions under the Federal False Claims Act. Further, our historically disclosed graduate employment statistics, or advertising regarding such statistics, which ED is investigating, could be found to be in violation of ED regulations. If ED determines that an institution has engaged in substantial misrepresentation, ED may i) fine the institution; ii) discharge students debt and hold the institution liable for the discharged debt under the HEA or pursuant to the Debt Forgiveness Regulations; or iii) suspend or terminate an institutions agreement to participate in Title IV programs. ED may also impose limitations on the institutions participation in Title IV programs, which could include the denial of applications from the institution for approval of new programs or locations, requiring the filing of a substantial letter of credit, or the imposition of one of EDs heightened cash monitoring processes. Any of the forgoing remedial actions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. 57 A failure to demonstrate financial responsibility or administrative capability may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. All Title IV participating institutions are subject to meeting financial and administrative standards. These standards are assessed through annual compliance audits, periodic renewal of institutional program participation agreements, periodic program reviews and ad hoc events which may lead ED to evaluate an institutions capacities. If ED determines, in its judgment, that we have failed to demonstrate either financial responsibility or administrative capability, we could be subject to sanctions, including, among other things, a requirement to post a letter of credit, fines, suspension or termination of our eligibility to participate in the Title IV programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Administrative regulations give ED considerable discretion to assess the foregoing sanctions and, in some cases, such sanctions could be assessed on us without advance notice or any right of review or appeal before they become effective. If ED does not recertify any one of our institutions to continue participating in the Title IV programs, students at that institution would lose their access to Title IV program funds, or ED could recertify our institutions but require our institutions to accept significant limitations as a condition of their continued participation in the Title IV programs. ED certification to participate in the Title IV programs lasts a maximum of six years, and institutions are thus required to seek recertification from ED on a regular basis in order to continue their participation in the Title IV programs. An institution must also apply for recertification by the ED if it undergoes a change in control, as defined by ED regulations. Each of our institutions operates under a program participation agreement with full certification from ED. There can be no assurance that ED will recertify after the program participation agreements for each institution expires or that it will not limit the period of participation to less than six years, place the institutions on provisional certification, or impose conditions or other restrictions on our institutions as a condition of approving our application with respect to any future recertification. If ED does not renew or withdraws the certification to participate in the Title IV programs for one or more of our institutions at any time, students at such institution would no longer be able to receive Title IV program funds. Alternatively, ED could renew the certifications for our institution, but restrict or delay receipt of Title IV funds, limit the number of students to whom an institution could disburse such funds, or place other restrictions on that institution, or it could delay recertification after an institution program participation agreement expires, in which case the institutions certification would continue on a month-to-month basis. If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by the Department of Education, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. The loss of accreditation by any of our schools would leave the affected school ineligible to participate in Title IV programs and would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operation and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. In addition, an adverse action by any of our accreditors, other than loss of accreditation, such as issuance of a warning, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Increased scrutiny of accreditors by the Secretary of Education in connection with EDs recognition process may result in increased scrutiny of institutions by accreditors or have other consequences. Our goodwill and intangible assets could potentially be impaired if our business results and financial condition were materially and adversely impacted by the risks and uncertainties. DeVry Groups market capitalization can be affected by, among other things, changes in industry or market conditions, changes in results of operations and changes in forecasts or market expectations related to future results. If DeVry Groups market capitalization remains below its carrying value for a sustained period of time or if such a decline becomes indicative that the fair values of the DeVry Group reporting units have declined below their carrying values, an impairment test may result in a non-cash impairment charge. At March 31, 2016 intangible assets from business combinations totaled $371.0 million and goodwill totaled $565.0 million. Together, these assets equaled approximately 44% of total assets as of such date. If our or any of our subsidiaries business results and financial condition were materially and adversely impacted, then such goodwill and intangible assets could be impaired, requiring possible write-off of up to $371.0 million of intangible assets and up to $565.0 million of goodwill. 58 ITEM 2 UNREGISTERED SALES OF EQUITY SECURITIES AND USE OF PROCEEDS Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Period Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publically Announced Plans or Programs (1) Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs (1) January 2016 110,364 $ 22.21 110,364 $ 97,549,232 February 2016 143,295 $ 18.00 253,659 $ 94,969,456 March 2016 147,153 $ 19.28 400,812 $ 92,131,684 Total 400,812 $ 19.63 400,812 $ 92,131,684 (1) On December 15, 2015, the Board of Directors of DeVry Group authorized a share repurchase program to buy back up to $100 million of DeVry Group common stock through December 31, 2017. The total remaining authorization under this share repurchase program was $92,131,684 as of March 31, 2016. Period Total Number of Shares Purchased (1) Average Price Paid per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publically Announced Plans or Programs Approximate Dollar Value of Shares that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs January 2016 - $ - NA NA February 2016 5,389 $ 17.92 NA NA March 2016 - $ - NA NA Total 5,389 $ 17.92 NA NA (1) Represents shares delivered back to DeVry Group for payment of withholding taxes from employees for vesting restricted stock units and shares swapped for payment on exercise of incentive stock options pursuant to the terms of DeVry Group's incentive plans. ITEM 6 EXHIBITS Exhibit 31 Certification Pursuant to Rules 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Amended Exhibit 32 Certification Pursuant to Title 18 of the United States Code Section 1350 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 59 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. DeVry Education Group Inc. Date: May 5, 2016 By /s/ Timothy J. Wiggins Timothy J. Wiggins Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) By /s/ Patrick J. Unzicker Patrick J. Unzicker Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer) 60 EX-31 2 v437631_ex31.htm EXHIBIT 31 EXHIBIT 31 CERTIFICATION I, Timothy J. Wiggins, certify that: 1. I have reviewed this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of DeVry Education Group Inc.; 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4. The registrants other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure