Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, Adtalem Global Education Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is collectively referred to as Adtalem, we, our, us, or similar references. Discussions within the MD&A may contain forward-looking statements. See the Forward-Looking Statements section for details about the uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Throughout this MD&A, we sometimes use information derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto but not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these items are considered non-GAAP financial measurers under the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations section for the reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Certain items presented in tables may not sum due to rounding. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying numbers in thousands. Discussions throughout this MD&A are based on continuing operations unless otherwise noted. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto. Available Information Through its website, Adtalem offers its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports filed with the SEC. Adtalems website is http://www.adtalem.com. Except as otherwise stated in these reports, the information contained on our website or available by hyperlink from our website is not incorporated into our Annual Report on Form 10-K, this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, or other documents we file with, or furnish to, the SEC. Segments During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2019, Adtalem renamed two of its segments: Professional Education was renamed Financial Services, and Technology and Business was renamed Business and Law. 39 Table of Contents As of September 30, 2019, Adtalem eliminated its Business and Law reportable segment when Adtalem Education of Brazil (Adtalem Brazil) was classified as discontinued operations and assets held for sale. In addition to the sale of Adtalem Brazil completed on April 24, 2020, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, Adtalem divested DeVry University and Carrington College (Carrington). In accordance with GAAP, we have classified the DeVry University, Carrington, and Adtalem Brazil entities as Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations in all periods presented as applicable. As a result, all financial results, disclosures, and discussions of continuing operations in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q exclude DeVry University, Carrington, and Adtalem Brazil operations, unless otherwise noted. See Note 4 Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discontinued operations information. We present two reportable segments as follows: Medical and Healthcare Offers degree and non-degree programs in the medical and healthcare postsecondary education industry. This segment includes the operations of Chamberlain University (Chamberlain), American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC), Ross University School of Medicine (RUSM), and Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine (RUSVM). AUC, RUSM, and RUSVM is collectively referred to as the medical and veterinary schools. Financial Services Offers test preparation, certifications, conferences, seminars, memberships, and subscriptions to business professionals in the areas of accounting, anti-money laundering, banking, and mortgage industries. This segment includes the operations of the Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists (ACAMS), Becker Professional Education (Becker), OnCourse Learning (OCL), and EduPristine. Home Office and Other includes activity not allocated to a reportable segment. Financial and descriptive information about Adtalems reportable segments is presented in Note 20 Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain expenses previously allocated to Adtalem Brazil within our former Business and Law segment during fiscal year 2019 have been reclassified to the Home Office and Other segment based on discontinued operations reporting guidance regarding allocation of corporate overhead. For fiscal year 2020, home office costs to support the remaining businesses are being allocated to the Medical and Healthcare and Financial Services segments. Third Quarter Highlights Financial and operational highlights for the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 include: Adtalem revenue grew $12.8 million, or 4.9%, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the year-ago quarter, driven by increased revenue in both the Medical and Healthcare and the Financial Services segments. Net income attributable to Adtalem of $150.8 million increased $112.9 million, or 297.9%, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the year-ago quarter primarily driven by an unrealized gain of $111.8 million recorded in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 on the deal-contingent foreign currency hedge arrangement entered into in connection with the sale of Adtalem Brazil completed on April 24, 2020 to economically hedge the Brazilian Real denominated purchase price through mitigation of the currency exchange rate risk. Net income from continuing operations attributable to Adtalem excluding special items of $43.2 million increased $5.9 million, or 15.7%, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase was principally attributable to revenue growth at Chamberlain and cost containment across all institutions and Adtalem home office. For the March 2020 session, new and total student enrollment at Chamberlain increased 12.7% and 5.1%, respectively, compared to the same term last year. Chamberlain continues to invest in its programs, student services, and campus locations. The acquisition of OCL in May 2019, contributed to revenue growth in the Financial Services segment of 22.8% in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 compared to the year-ago quarter. ACAMS memberships have increased to more than 79,000 as of March 31, 2020. 40 Table of Contents Adtalem continued its eleventh share repurchase program by repurchasing a total of 1,164,308 shares of Adtalems common stock at an average cost of $31.67 per share during the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Repurchases were suspended on March 12, 2020 due to the economic uncertainty caused by the novel coronavirus (COVID-19 or virus) pandemic. The timing and amount of any future repurchases will be determined based on an evaluation of market conditions and other factors. COVID-19 The World Health Organization declared COVID-19 to be a public health emergency on January 30, 2020. The virus has had tragic consequences across the globe, and its full impact is not yet known as of the May 5, 2020 filing date of this Form 10-Q. COVID-19 is altering business and consumer activity across almost all industries. Management has initiated several changes to the operations of our institutions and administrative functions in order to protect the health of Adtalem employees, students, and customers and to mitigate the financial effects of the virus and its resultant economic slowdown. Results of Operations COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or cost increases in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. Management anticipates more significant effects to consolidated revenue, net income, and earnings per share in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and possibly into fiscal year 2021 should the economic effects of social distancing and other measures established to combat the virus continue for an extended period of time. COVID-19 effects on third quarter of fiscal year 2020 and projected results of operations of the Adtalem institutions is described below. Chamberlain : Approximately 30% of Chamberlains students are based at campus locations and pursuing their Bachelor of Science of Nursing (BSN) degree; all campus-based students have transitioned to online learning for didactic and clinical experiences. The remaining 70% of Chamberlains students are enrolled in online programs and those programs are continuing to successfully operate. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or costs increases at Chamberlain in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. The virus will likely negatively impact Chamberlain revenue and operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, principally from students who choose to postpone their studies due to the virus, especially if they are currently working in the healthcare field. Additionally, students who require onsite clinical experiences in order to complete their coursework may have to defer enrollment until onsite clinical experiences return. The extent of the impact in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the economic effects of COVID-19 and by the length of time the pandemic affects healthcare facilities ability to provide clinical experiences. Chamberlain has clinical partnerships with healthcare facilities across the U.S., which provides geographical diversity and is expected to reduce the risk that clinical education experiences will continue to be suspended for all clinical students. AUC and RUSM : Medical students enrolled in the basic science portion of their program have transitioned to online learning. Many students have moved from St. Maarten and Barbados and are continuing their studies remotely from their homes. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or costs increases within the basic science programs at the medical schools in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. The virus may negatively impact basic science revenue and operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. The likely impact is principally from students who choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. The extent of the impact in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the economic effects of COVID-19. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations in the U.S. (and in the U.K. for AUC), and clinical rotations for all students were temporarily suspended in March 2020. This suspension did not significantly reduce revenue or operating income in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020 at either institution. The suspension will likely have a negative effect on revenue and operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and for as long as the pandemic affects hospitals ability to provide clinical experiences. Adtalem has clinical partnerships with hospitals across the U.S. (and in the U.K. for AUC), which provide geographical diversity and are expected to reduce the risk that clinical education experiences will continue to be suspended for all clinical students. RUSVM: All basic science veterinary students have transitioned to online learning. Many students have moved from St. Kitts and are continuing their studies remotely from their homes. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or cost increases within the basic science program in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. The virus may negatively impact basic science revenue and operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020. The likely impact is principally from 41 Table of Contents students who choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. The extent of the impact on the basic science program in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the economic effects of COVID-19. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations at select universities in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and Europe. A few universities have suspended onsite clinical experiences and transitioned students to online education, while other universities have continued to offer onsite clinical courses. The suspensions did not significantly reduce revenue or operating income in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. The extent of the impact on clinical experiences in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the economic effects of COVID-19. Financial Services : Most Financial Services content, including exam preparation, certification training, continuing education, and subscriptions is delivered online. Any classroom-based learning has been moved to online. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or costs increases at Financial Services in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020. The virus is expected to negatively impact Financial Services revenue and operating income in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, principally driven by the cancellation of ACAMS live conferences. Live conference revenue will not be realized so long as social distancing and group gathering is limited. COVID-19 did not result in any financial losses related to live conferences in the third quarter of fiscal year 2020, as there were no large conferences canceled. Adtalem maintains event cancellation insurance coverage and may be able to recover a portion of the lost operating income from cancelled conferences. It is possible large group gatherings may continue to be restricted into fiscal year 2021. These conferences could possibly be replaced with virtual events in the future but loss of conference revenue is likely. Management believes that other than the ACAMS conferences, longer-term operating results in the Financial Services segment will not be significantly affected by COVID-19 unless there are major employment losses with accounting professionals and recent accounting graduates, or in the banking and mortgage sectors. This is not known and cannot be predicted at this time. Administrative Operations : Virtually all institution and home office administrative operations are being delivered and performed remotely. This includes operations both in the U.S. and in all foreign locations. These remote work arrangements have not adversely affected Adtalems ability to maintain operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, and disclosure