Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations titled Regulatory Environment. Eligibility and Certification Procedures The HEA specifies the manner in which ED reviews institutions for eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs. Every educational institution participating in the Title IV programs must be certified to participate and is required to periodically renew this certification. Institutions that violate certain ED Title IV regulations, including its financial responsibility and administrative capability regulations, may lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or may only continue participation under provisional certification. Institutions that do not meet financial responsibility requirements are typically required to be subject to heightened cash monitoring requirements and post a letter of credit (equal to a minimum of 10% of the Title IV aid it received in the institutions most recent fiscal year). Provisional certification status also carries fewer due process protections than full certification. As a result, ED may withdraw an institutions provisional certification more easily than if it is fully certified. Provisional certification does not otherwise limit access to Title IV program funds by students attending the institution. ED has published proposed rules to amend the certification procedures. We anticipate the amended rules will be effective on July 1, 2024. Defense to Repayment Regulations Under the HEA, ED is authorized to specify in regulations, which acts or omissions of an institution of higher education a borrower may assert as a Defense to Repayment of a Direct Loan made under the Federal Direct Loan Program. On July 1, 2023, new Defense to Repayment regulations went into effect that include a lower threshold for establishing misrepresentation, provides for no statute of limitation for claims submission, expands reasons to file a claim including aggressive or deceptive recruitment tactics and omission of fact, weakens due processes afforded to institutions, and reinstates provisions for group discharges. ED also included a six-year statute of limitations for recovery from institutions. These changes may increase financial liability and reputational risk. The 90/10 Rule An ED regulation known as the 90/10 Rule affects only proprietary postsecondary institutions, such as Chamberlain, Walden, AUC, RUSM, and RUSVM. Under this regulation, an institution that derives more than 90% of its revenue on a cash basis from Title IV student financial assistance programs in two consecutive fiscal years loses eligibility to participate in these programs for at least two fiscal years. The American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (the Rescue Act) enacted on March 11, 2021 amended the 90/10 rule to require that a proprietary institution derive no more than 90% of its revenue from federal education assistance funds, including but not limited to previously excluded U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and military tuition assistance benefits. This change was subject to negotiated rulemaking, which ended in March 2022. The amended rule applies to institutional fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2023. The following table details the percentage of revenue on a cash basis from federal financial assistance programs as calculated under the current regulations (excluding the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs and military tuition assistance benefits) for each of Adtalems Title IV-eligible institutions for fiscal years 2022 and 2021. Final data for fiscal year 2023 is not yet available. As institutions 90/10 compliance must be calculated using the financial results of an entire fiscal year, we are including Waldens amounts for the full fiscal year 2022 in the table below, including the portion of the year not under Adtalems ownership. Fiscal Year 2022 2021 Chamberlain University 65 % 66 % Walden University 73 % n/a American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine 81 % 80 % Ross University School of Medicine 85 % 85 % Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine 81 % 82 % Consolidated 72 % 73 % 17 Table of Contents Incentive Compensation An educational institution participating in Title IV programs may not pay any commission, bonus, or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment or awarding of Title IV program funds, if such payments are based directly or indirectly in any part on success in enrolling students or obtaining student financial aid. The law and regulations governing this requirement have not established clear criteria for compliance in all circumstances, but, prior to 2011, there were 12 safe harbors that defined specific types of compensation that were deemed to constitute permissible incentive compensation. New rules effective in 2011 eliminated the 12 safe harbors. These changes increased the uncertainty about what constitutes incentive compensation and which employees are covered by the regulation. This makes the development of effective and compliant performance metrics more difficult to establish. As such, these changes have limited and are expected to continue to limit Adtalems ability to compensate our employees based on their performance of their job responsibilities, which could make it more difficult to attract and retain highly-qualified employees. Management believes that Adtalem has not been, nor is currently, involved in any activities that violate the restrictions on commissions, bonuses, or other incentive payments to any person involved in student recruitment, admissions, or awarding of Title IV program funds. Standards of Financial Responsibility An ED defined financial responsibility test is required for continued participation by an institution in Title IV aid programs. For Adtalems institutions, this test is calculated at the consolidated Adtalem level. Applying various financial elements from the fiscal year audited financial statements, the test is based upon a composite score of three ratios: an equity ratio that measures the institutions capital resources; a primary reserve ratio that measures an institutions ability to fund its operations from current resources; and a net income ratio that measures an institutions ability to operate profitably. A minimum score of 1.5 is necessary to meet EDs financial standards. Institutions with scores of less than 1.5 but greater than or equal to 1.0 are considered financially responsible but require additional oversight. These institutions are subject to heightened cash monitoring and other participation requirements. An institution with a score of less than 1.0 is considered not financially responsible. However, an institution with a score of less than 1.0 may continue to participate in the Title IV programs under provisional certification. In addition, this lower score typically requires that the institution be subject to heightened cash monitoring requirements and post a letter of credit (equal to a minimum of 10% of the Title IV aid it received in the institution's most recent fiscal year). For the past several years, Adtalems composite score has exceeded the required minimum of 1.5. As a result of the acquisition of Walden, Adtalem expects ED will conclude its consolidated fiscal year 2022 composite score will fall below 1.5. As a result, ED may impose certain additional conditions for continued access to federal funding including heightened cash monitoring and/or an additional letter of credit. Management does not believe such conditions, if any, will have a material adverse effect on Adtalems operations. ED also has proposed rules to amend the financial responsibility regulations. We anticipate any rules will be effective on July 1, 2024. Administrative Capability The HEA directs ED to assess the administrative capability of each institution to participate in Title IV programs. The failure of an institution to satisfy any of the criteria used to assess administrative capability may cause ED to determine that the institution lacks administrative capability and, therefore, subject the institution to additional scrutiny or deny its eligibility for Title IV programs. ED has proposed rules to amend the administrative capability regulations. We anticipate any amended rules will be effective on July 1, 2024. State Authorization Institutions that participate in Title IV programs must be authorized to operate by the appropriate postsecondary regulatory authority in each state where the institution has a physical presence. Chamberlain is specifically authorized to operate in all of the domestic jurisdictions that require such authorizations. Some states assert authority to regulate all degree-granting institutions if their educational programs are available to their residents, whether or not the institutions maintain a physical presence within those states. Chamberlain has obtained licensure in states which require such licensure 18 Table of Contents and where their students are enrolled and is an institutional participant in the National Council for State Authorization Reciprocity Agreements (NC-SARA) initiative. Walden does not participate in NC-SARA, and therefore maintains licenses or exemptions in those states that require it to do so to enroll students in distance education programs where they are currently offered. On December 19, 2016, ED published new rules concerning requirements for institutional eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. These regulations, which would have become effective beginning July 1, 2018, but were delayed until July 1, 2020, were subsequently renegotiated as part of the 2018-2019 Accreditation and Innovation rule-making sessions. The renegotiated rule went into effect on July 1, 2020 and requires an institution offering distance education or correspondence courses to be authorized by each state from which the institution enrolls students, if such authorization is required by the state. If an institution offers postsecondary education through distance education or correspondence courses in a state that participates in a state authorization reciprocity agreement, and the institution offering the program is located in a state where it is also covered by such an agreement, the institution would be considered legally authorized to offer postsecondary distance or correspondence education in the state where courses are offered via distance education, subject to any limitations in that agreement. The regulations also require an institution to document the state processes for resolving complaints from students enrolled in programs offered through distance education or correspondence courses. Lastly, the regulations require that an institution provide certain disclosures to enrolled and prospective students regarding its programs that lead to professional licensure. ED has proposed to amend the rules to require that a program meet state licensure requirements in lieu of the aforementioned disclosures. The earliest any amended rules will be effective is July 1, 2024. Cohort Default Rates ED has instituted strict regulations that penalize institutions whose students have high default rates on federal student loans. Depending on the type of loan, a loan is considered in default after the borrower becomes at least 270 or 360 days past due. For a variety of reasons, higher default rates are often found in private-sector institutions and community colleges, many of which tend to have a higher percentage of low-income students enrolled compared to four-year publicly supported and independent colleges and universities. Educational institutions are penalized to varying degrees under the Federal Direct Student Loan Program, depending on the default rate for the cohort defined in the statute. An institution with a cohort default rate that exceeds 20% for the year is required to develop a plan to reduce defaults, but the institutions operations and its students ability to utilize student loans are not restricted. An institution with a cohort default rate of 30% or more for three consecutive years is ineligible to participate in these loan programs and cannot offer student loans administered by ED for the fiscal year in which the ineligibility determination is made and for the next two fiscal years. Students attending an institution whose cohort default rate has exceeded 30% for three consecutive years are also ineligible for Federal Pell Grants. Any institution with a cohort default rate of 40% or more in any year is subject to immediate limitation, suspension, or termination proceedings from all federal aid programs. According to ED, the three-year cohort default rate for all colleges and universities eligible for federal financial aid was 2.3% for the fiscal year 2019 cohort (the latest available) and 7.3% for the fiscal year 2018 cohort. Default rates for Chamberlain, Walden, AUC, RUSM, and RUSVM students are as follows: Cohort Default Rate 2019 2018 Chamberlain University 0.5 % 2.6 % Walden University 1.1 % 4.7 % American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine 0.2 % 0.7 % Ross University School of Medicine 0.2 % 0.9 % Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine 0.2 % 0.4 % 19 Table of Contents Satisfactory Academic Progress In addition to the requirements that educational institutions must meet, student recipients of financial aid must maintain satisfactory academic progress toward completion of their program of study and an appropriate grade point average. Change of Ownership or Control Any material change of ownership or change of control of Adtalem, depending on the type of change, may have significant regulatory consequences for each of our Title IV Institutions. Such a change of ownership or control could require recertification by ED, the reevaluation of accreditation by each institutions accreditors, reauthorization by each institutions state licensing agencies, and/or providing financial protections. If Adtalem experiences a material change of ownership or change of control, then our Title IV Institutions may cease to be eligible to participate in Title IV programs until recertified by ED. There is no assurance that such recertification would be obtained. After a material change in ownership or change of control, most institutions will participate in Title IV programs on a provisional basis for a period of one to three years. In addition, each Title IV Institution is required to report any material change in stock ownership to its principal institutional accrediting body and would generally be required to obtain approval prior to undergoing any transaction that affects, or may affect, its corporate control or governance. In the event of any such change, each of our institutions accreditors may undertake an evaluation of the effect of the change on the continuing operations of our institution for purposes of determining if continued accreditation is appropriate, which evaluation may include a comprehensive review. In addition, some states in which our Title IV Institutions are licensed require approval (in some cases, advance approval) of changes in ownership or control in order to remain authorized to operate in those states, and participation in grant programs in some states may be interrupted or otherwise affected by a change in ownership or control. Refer to the risk factor titled If regulators do not approve, or delay their approval, of transactions involving a material change of ownership or change of control of Adtalem, the eligibility of our institutions to participate in Title IV programs, our institutions accreditation and our institutions state licenses may be impaired in a manner that materially and adversely affects our business under subsection Risks Related to Adtalems Highly Regulated Industry in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Gainful Employment Current law states that proprietary institutions and non-degree programs at private non-profit and public institutions must prepare students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. ED has published proposed rules to define and implement this existing law through what is referred to as the Gainful Employment (GE) rules. A prior version of this rule was rescinded on July 1, 2019. ED is proposing to use debt-to-earnings ratios and an earnings threshold in determining whether graduates were gainfully employed. Repeated failure of a program to meet these measures would result in the program losing Title IV eligibility. We anticipate the new rules will be effective on July 1, 2024. State Approvals and Licensing Adtalem institutions require authorizations from many state higher education authorities to recruit students, operate schools, and grant degrees. Generally, the addition of any new program of study or new operating location also requires approval by the appropriate licensing and regulatory agencies. In the U.S., each Chamberlain location is approved to grant degrees by the respective state in which it is located. Walden is registered in its home state of Minnesota with the Minnesota Office of Higher Education. Additionally, many states require approval for out-of-state institutions to recruit within their state or offer instruction through online modalities to residents of their states. Adtalem believes its institutions are in compliance with all state requirements as an out-of-state institution. AUC and RUSM clinical programs are accredited as part of their programs of medical education by their respective accrediting bodies, approved by the appropriate boards in those states that have a formal process to do so, and are reported to ED as required. Many states require private-sector postsecondary education institutions to post surety bonds for licensure. In the U.S., Adtalem has posted $31.9 million of surety bonds with regulatory authorities on behalf of Chamberlain, Walden, AUC, RUSM, and RUSVM. 20 Table of Contents Certain states have set standards of financial responsibility that differ from those prescribed by federal regulation. Adtalem believes its institutions are in compliance with state and Canadian provincial regulations. If Adtalem were unable to meet the tests of financial responsibility for a specific jurisdiction, and could not otherwise demonstrate financial responsibility, Adtalem could be required to cease operations in that state. To date, Adtalem has successfully demonstrated its financial responsibility where required. Seasonality The seasonal pattern of Adtalems enrollments and its educational programs starting dates affect the timing of cash flows with higher cash inflows at the beginning of academic sessions. Human Capital As of June 30, 2023, Adtalem had the following number of employees: Full-Time Visiting Part-Time Staff Professors Staff Total Chamberlain 1,274 2,587 215 4,076 Walden 1,097 2,342 15 3,454 Medical and Veterinary 750 64 44 858 Home Office 1,247 20 1,267 Total 4,368 4,993 294 9,655 Our management believes that Adtalem has good relations with its employees. We continue to regularly gather feedback from our employees. In the prior year we disclosed results from our summer 2022 engagement survey. We expect to conduct our next engagement survey during fiscal year 2024. We also gather employee feedback through the colleague lifecycle survey we call continuous listening. The lifecycle survey gathers feedback week one (preboarding), at three months (quality of hire), and at six months (onboarding) for regular new hires. We also send out an exit survey to regular colleagues that voluntarily resign. The overall experience results of these surveys are as follows: Fiscal Year 2023 Fiscal Year 2022 Favorability Favorability Survey (top 2 ratings) (top 2 ratings) Preboarding (week one) 92 % 89 % Quality of hire (3 months) 75 % 68 % Onboarding (6 months) 86 % 85 % Exit survey 56 % 45 % Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) continue to be core tenets of our culture at Adtalem. During fiscal year 2023, we hired a vice president of DEI and talent management. We continuously measure representation amongst our employee population. As shown in the table below, our total female representation dropped from 75% as of June 30, 2022 to 71% as of June 30, 2023, driven by turnover during fiscal year 2023 being 78% female, while hiring was only 75% female. 21 Table of Contents As of June 30, 2023 and 2022, our employee diversity was as follows: Female People of Color (U.S. Only) Level June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 June 30, 2023 June 30, 2022 All Levels 71 % 75 % 37 % 36 % Management 70 % 71 % 34 % 31 % Director 67 % 68 % 24 % 23 % Executive 47 % 42 % 23 % 21 % Segment Chamberlain 80 % 87 % 38 % 36 % Walden 72 % 70 % 34 % 34 % Medical and Veterinary 60 % 59 % 57 % 54 % Home Office 61 % 60 % 39 % 39 % Adtalem offers a comprehensive benefits package including wellness programs for eligible employees. The wellness strategy entitled Live Well takes a holistic approach to wellbeing through four pillars: Physical, Social, Financial and Emotional. Our health benefits remain competitive with generous paid time off, retirement plan, domestic partner benefits, adoption assistance, paid parent leave for both mothers and fathers, among others. We recently launched enhancements to our Employee Assistance Program and our mental health and well-being application, entitled Ginger. Employee participation for certain programs is listed below: Wellness Pillar Segment: U.S. Regular Employees Participation Financial Retirement planning (auto enrollment feature for new hire) 92 % Emotional* Mental health wellbeing - Ginger utilization 18 % Physical Employees completing annual physicals 84 % *EAP standard utilization is 3-5% Finally, Adtalem provides additional opportunities for employees to pursue their educational goals through our Education Assistance program. This program offers both tuition discounts and tuition reimbursement at multiple nationally and regionally accredited higher education institutions. We will continue to offer resources to maintain an engaged, healthy, motivated workforce focused on meeting business goals. Intellectual Property Adtalem owns and uses numerous trademarks and service marks, such as Adtalem, American University of the Caribbean, Chamberlain College of Nursing, Ross University, Walden University and others. All trademarks, service marks, certification marks, patents, and copyrights associated with its businesses are owned in the name of Adtalem Global Education Inc. or a subsidiary of Adtalem Global Education Inc. Adtalem vigorously defends against infringements of its trademarks, service marks, certification marks, patents, and copyrights. Available Information We use our website (www.adtalem.com) as a routine channel of distribution of company information, including press releases, presentations, and supplemental information, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our website in addition to following press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls, and webcasts. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts. You may also access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The content of the websites mentioned above is not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. 22 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors Summary of Risk Factors The summary of risks below provides an overview of the principal risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities: Risks Related to Adtalems Highly Regulated Industry We are subject to regulatory audits, investigations, lawsuits, or other proceedings relating to compliance by the institutions in the Adtalem portfolio with numerous laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions applicable to the postsecondary education industry. The ongoing regulatory effort aimed at proprietary postsecondary institutions of higher education could be a catalyst for additional legislative or regulatory restrictions, investigations, enforcement actions, and claims. Adverse publicity arising from investigations, claims, or actions brought against us or other proprietary higher education institutions may negatively affect our reputation, business, or stock price, or attract additional investigations, lawsuits, or regulatory action. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties have initiated, and could initiate additional investigations, claims, or actions against us, which could require us to pay monetary damages, halt certain business practices, or receive other sanctions. The defense and resolution of these matters could require us to expend significant resources. The U.S. Department of Education (ED) has issued regulations setting forth new standards and procedures related to borrower defenses to repayment of Title IV loan obligations, and EDs right of recoveries against institutions following a successful borrower defense and institutional financial responsibility. It is possible that a finding or allegation arising from current or future legal proceedings or governmental administrative actions may create significant liability under the proposed regulations. Within Title IV regulations, pending or future lawsuits, investigations, program reviews, and other events could each trigger, automatically or in some cases at EDs discretion, the posting of letters of credit or other securities. We are subject to risks relating to regulatory matters. If we fail to comply with the extensive regulatory requirements for our operations, we could face fines and penalties, including loss of access to federal and state student financial aid for our students, loss of ability to enroll students in a state, and significant civil liability. Government budgetary pressures and changes to laws governing financial aid programs could reduce our student enrollment or delay our receipt of tuition payments. Our ability to comply with some ED regulations is affected by economic forces affecting our students and graduates that are not entirely within our control. ED rules prohibiting substantial misrepresentation are very broad. As a result, we face increased exposure to litigation arising from student and prospective student complaints and enforcement actions by ED that could restrict or eliminate our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Regulations governing the eligibility of our U.S. degree-granting institutions to participate in Title IV programs preclude us from compensating any employee or third-party involved in student recruitment, admissions, or the awarding of financial aid based on their success in those areas. These regulations could limit our ability to attract and retain highly-qualified employees, to sustain and grow our business, or to develop or acquire businesses that would not otherwise be subject to such regulations. A failure to demonstrate financial responsibility or administrative capability may result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If ED does not recertify any one of our institutions to continue participating in Title IV programs, students at that institution would lose their access to Title IV program funds. Alternatively, ED could recertify our institutions but require our institutions to accept significant limitations as a condition of their continued participation in Title IV programs. If we fail to maintain our institutional accreditation or if our institutional accrediting body loses recognition by ED, we would lose our ability to participate in Title IV programs. A bankruptcy filing by us or by any of our Title IV Institutions, or a closure of one of our Title IV Institutions, would lead to an immediate loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. Excessive student loan defaults could result in the loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. If we fail to maintain any of our state authorizations, we would lose our ability to operate in that state and to participate in Title IV programs in that state. 23 Table of Contents Our ability to place our medical schools students in hospitals in the U.S. may be limited by efforts of certain state government regulatory bodies, which may limit the growth potential of our medical schools, put our medical schools at a competitive disadvantage to other medical schools, or force our medical schools to substantially reduce their class sizes. Budget constraints in states that provide state financial aid to our students could reduce the amount of such financial aid that is available to our students, which could reduce our enrollment and adversely affect our 90/10 Rule percentage. We could be subject to sanctions if we fail to calculate accurately and make timely payment of refunds of Title IV program funds for students who withdraw before completing their educational program. A failure of our vendors to comply with applicable regulations in the servicing of our students and institutions could subject us to fines or restrictions on or loss of our ability to participate in Title IV programs. We provide financing programs to assist some of our students in affording our educational offerings. These programs are subject to various federal and state rules and regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations could subject us to fines, penalties, obligations to discharge loans, and other injunctive requirements. Release of confidential information could subject us to civil penalties or cause us to lose our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs. We could be subject to sanctions if we fail to accurately and timely report sponsored students tuition, fees, and enrollment to the sponsoring agency. Risks Related to Adtalems Business Outbreaks of communicable infections or diseases, or other public health pandemics in the locations in which we, our students, faculty, and employees live, work, and attend classes, could substantially harm our business. Natural disasters or other extraordinary events or political disruptions may cause us to close some of our schools. Student enrollment at our schools is affected by legislative, regulatory, and economic factors that may change in ways we cannot predict. These factors outside our control limit our ability to assess our future enrollment effectively. We are subject to risks relating to enrollment of students. If we are not able to continue to successfully recruit and retain our students, our revenue may decline. If our graduates are unable to find appropriate employment opportunities or obtain professional licensure or certification, we may not be able to recruit new students. We face heightened competition in the postsecondary education market from both public and private educational institutions. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft, or loss that could adversely affect our reputation and operations. System disruptions and vulnerability from security risks to our computer network or information systems could severely impact our ability to serve our existing students and attract new students. Our ability to open new campuses, offer new programs, and add capacity is dependent on regulatory approvals and requires financial and human resources. We may not be able to attract, retain, and develop key employees necessary for our operations and the successful execution of our strategic plans. We may not be able to successfully identify, pursue, or integrate acquisitions. Proposed changes in, or lapses of, U.S. tax laws regarding earnings from international operations could adversely affect our financial results. Changes in effective tax rates or adverse outcomes resulting from examination of our income or other tax returns could adversely affect our results. We and our subsidiaries may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may not be able to refinance our debt obligations. Risks Related to Shareholder Activism We may face risks associated with shareholder activism. Adtalems business operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, some of which are not entirely within our control. Investors should carefully consider the risk factors described below and all other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before making an investment decision with respect to Adtalems common stock. If any of the following risks are realized, Adtalems business, results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected, and as a result, the price of Adtalems common stock could be materially and adversely 24 Table of Contents affected. Management cannot predict all the possible risks and uncertainties that may arise. Risks and uncertainties that may affect Adtalems business include the following: Risks Related to Adtalems Highly Regulated Industry We are subject to regulatory audits, investigations, lawsuits, or other proceedings relating to compliance by the institutions in the Adtalem portfolio with numerous laws and regulations in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions applicable to the postsecondary education industry. Due to the highly regulated nature of proprietary postsecondary institutions, we are subject to audits, compliance reviews, inquiries, complaints, investigations, claims of non-compliance, and lawsuits by federal and state governmental agencies, regulatory agencies, accrediting agencies, present and former students and employees, shareholders, and other third parties, any of whom may allege violations of any of the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to us. If the results of any such claims or actions are unfavorable to us or one or more of our institutions, we may be required to pay monetary judgments, fines, or penalties, be required to repay funds received under Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have restrictions placed on or terminate our schools or programs eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or state financial aid programs, have limitations placed on or terminate our schools operations or ability to grant degrees and certificates, have our schools accreditations restricted or revoked, or be subject to civil or criminal penalties. ED regulations regarding financial responsibility provide that, if any one of our Title IV Institutions is unable to pay its obligations under its Program Participation Agreement (PPA) as a result of operational issues and/or an enforcement action, our other Title IV Institutions, regardless of their compliance with applicable laws and regulations, would not be able to maintain their Title IV eligibility without assisting in the repayment of the non-compliant institutions Title IV obligations. As a result, even though Adtalems Title IV Institutions are operated through independent entities, an enforcement action against one of our institutions could also have a material adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Adtalems other Title IV Institutions and Adtalem as a whole and could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on the ability for Adtalems other Title IV Institutions and Adtalem as a whole to operate. The ongoing regulatory effort aimed at proprietary postsecondary institutions of higher education could be a catalyst for additional legislative or regulatory restrictions, investigations, enforcement actions, and claims. The proprietary postsecondary education sector has at times experienced scrutiny from federal legislators, agencies, and state legislators and attorneys general. An adverse disposition of these existing inquiries, administrative actions, or claims, or the initiation of other inquiries, administrative actions, or claims, could, directly or indirectly, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, result of operations, and cash flows and result in significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. ED has proposed new Gainful Employment (GE) rules that would condition Title IV eligibility for each program at Adtalems institutions on passing debt to earnings ratio thresholds. These ratios would be based on the debt incurred by graduates and their post-graduate earnings. A program would lose eligibility if it failed in any two of three consecutive years that it was measured. Warnings must be issued to students and prospective students if a program may lose eligibility in the following GE year (e.g., if it failed in the first year). Adtalems Title IV Institutions could be adversely impacted by the rule. Adverse publicity arising from investigations, claims, or actions brought against us or other proprietary higher education institutions may negatively affect our reputation, business, or stock price, or attract additional investigations, lawsuits, or regulatory action. Adverse publicity regarding any past, pending, or future investigations, claims, settlements, and/or actions against us or other proprietary postsecondary education institutions could negatively affect our reputation, student enrollment levels, revenue, profit, and/or the market price of our common stock. Unresolved investigations, claims, and actions, or adverse resolutions or settlements thereof, could also result in additional inquiries, administrative actions or lawsuits, increased scrutiny, the withholding of authorizations, and/or the imposition of other sanctions by state education and professional licensing authorities, taxing authorities, our accreditors and other regulatory agencies governing us, which, individually or 25 Table of Contents in the aggregate, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Government and regulatory agencies and third parties have initiated, and could initiate additional investigations, claims, or actions against us, which could require us to pay monetary damages, halt certain business practices, or receive other sanctions. The defense and resolution of these matters could require us to expend significant resources. Due to the regulatory and enforcement efforts at times directed at proprietary postsecondary higher education institutions and adverse publicity arising from such efforts, we may face additional government and regulatory investigations and actions, lawsuits from private plaintiffs, and shareholder class actions and derivative claims. We may incur significant costs and other expenses in connection with our response to, and defense, resolution, or settlement of, investigations, claims, or actions, or group of related investigations, claims, or actions, which, individually or in the aggregate, could be outside the scope of, or in excess of, our existing insurance coverage and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. As part of our resolution of any such matter, or group of related matters, we may be required to comply with certain forms of injunctive relief, including altering certain business practices, or pay substantial damages, settlement costs, fines, and/or penalties. In addition, findings or claims or settlements thereof could serve as a basis for additional lawsuits or governmental inquiries or enforcement actions, including actions under EDs Defense to Repayment regulations. Such actions, individually or combined with other proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. Additionally, an adverse allegation, finding or outcome in any of these matters could also materially and adversely affect our ability to maintain, obtain, or renew licenses, approvals, or accreditation, and maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV, Department of Defense and Veterans Affairs programs or serve as a basis for ED to discharge certain Title IV student loans and seek recovery for some or all of its resulting losses from us under Defense to Repayment regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows and result in the imposition of significant restrictions on us and our ability to operate. ED has issued regulations setting forth new standards and procedures related to borrower defenses to repayment of Title IV loan obligations, and EDs right of recoveries against institutions following a successful borrower defense and institutional financial responsibility. It is possible that a finding or allegation arising from current or future legal proceedings or governmental administrative actions may create significant liability under the proposed regulations. Under the Higher Education Act (HEA), ED is authorized to specify in regulations, which acts or omissions of an institution of higher education a borrower may assert as a Defense to Repayment of a Direct Loan made under the Federal Direct Loan Program. On July 1, 2023, new Defense to Repayment regulations went into effect that include a lower threshold for establishing misrepresentation, expands acts which lead to an approved claim, removes a statute of limitation for claims submission, implements a single federal standard regardless of when the loan was first disbursed, and reinstates provisions for group discharges. ED also included a six-year statute of limitations for recovery from institutions. These changes may increase financial liability and reputational risk. The outcome of any legal proceeding instituted by a private party or governmental authority, facts asserted in pending or future lawsuits, and/or the outcome of any future governmental inquiry, lawsuit, or enforcement action (including matters described in Note 21 Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in