Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis 10 Table of Contents of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information, including the effects of COVID-19 on our operations. Chamberlain : Approximately 30% of Chamberlains students are based at campus locations and pursuing their BSN degree; at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, all campus-based students transitioned to online learning for didactic and select clinical experiences. The remaining 70% of Chamberlains students are enrolled in online programs that may or may not have clinical components and those programs continued to successfully operate. Students and employees have returned to all Chamberlain campuses for onsite instruction. Management believes that COVID-19 disruptions in the healthcare industry may have driven the enrollment decisions of potential students in the fiscal year 2022 sessions; however, the resulting revenue losses specific to COVID-19 are not quantifiable. COVID-19 did not result in significantly increased costs at Chamberlain in fiscal year 2022 and 2021. The extent of the impact in fiscal year 2023 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19, the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines, and whether any pandemic surge affects healthcare facilities ability to continue to provide clinical experiences. Chamberlain has clinical partnerships with healthcare facilities across the U.S., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. Walden : All of Waldens students are enrolled in online programs and these programs have continued to successfully operate throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Management believes that COVID-19 disruptions in the healthcare industry may have driven the enrollment decisions of potential students in fiscal year 2022; however, the resulting revenue losses specific to COVID-19 are not quantifiable. COVID-19 did not result in increased costs at Walden in fiscal year 2022. The extent of the impact in fiscal year 2023 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines. AUC and RUSM : Medical students enrolled in the basic science portion of their program transitioned to online learning at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak. Many students left St. Maarten and Barbados to continue their studies remotely from other locations. AUC and RUSM were able to provide remote learning and have students remain eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the U.S. Secretary of Education that was included in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) signed into law in March 2020. The waiver was dependent upon the host countrys coronavirus state of emergency declaration. The nation of St. Maarten lifted their declaration in June 2020, and as a result, AUCs ability to offer distance education ended after the September 2020 semester, requiring all AUC students to return to St. Maarten for basic science instruction effective January 2021. A limited number of RUSM students began returning to Barbados in January and May 2021 with a full return occurring for the September 2021 semester. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (the Appropriations Act) was signed into law in December 2020, and corrected technical errors in the CARES Act, which clarified the authority to operate via distance learning due to a declaration of an emergency in an applicable country or a qualifying emergency in the U.S. This section also extended these flexibilities through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever was later. The Appropriations Act provided Adtalems foreign institutions the ability to continue distance education without disruption to their students Title IV federal financial aid. Management believes uncertainties caused by COVID-19 may have driven the enrollment decisions of potential and current students; however, COVID-19 did not result in significant or quantifiable revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science programs at the medical schools in fiscal year 2022 and 2021, except with respect to housing operations in fiscal year 2021, as discussed below. COVID-19 will likely continue to have a minimal impact on basic science program revenue in fiscal year 2023, unless significant numbers of students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. The extent of the impact in fiscal year 2023 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19, the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines, and whether any pandemic surge affects healthcare facilities ability to continue to provide clinical experiences. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations in the U.S. and the U.K. Clinical rotations for all students were temporarily suspended in March 2020; however, some students were able to participate in online clinical elective courses during this transition period and beyond. The COVID-19 surge experienced during the winter in fiscal year 2021 across the U.S. caused many partner hospitals to again reduce the hours available for clinical experiences. As a result, although many students were able to resume their clinical education during the second quarter of fiscal year 2021, management estimates that not being able to offer a full clinical program reduced combined revenue of AUC and RUSM by approximately $21 million and operating income losses by approximately $14 million in fiscal year 2021. As of June 2021, all clinical partners of AUC and RUSM resumed their clinical programs. As a result, COVID-19 did not result in any lost clinical revenue in fiscal year 2022. Should future surges in COVID-19 again restrict the number 11 Table of Contents of clinical hours available to our students, we could experience negative effects on revenue and operating income in fiscal year 2023 and beyond. Adtalem has clinical partnerships with hospitals across the U.S. and the U.K., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. In addition to the loss of clinical revenue and operating income at AUC and RUSM, management estimates losses of housing and student transportation revenue of approximately $13 million and operating income of approximately $10 million in fiscal year 2021 due to students not returning to the St. Maarten and Barbados campuses. All students were allowed back on the two campuses in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, and therefore, COVID-19 did not result in significant lost housing and student transportation revenue in fiscal year 2022. RUSVM : All basic science veterinary students transitioned to online learning beginning in March 2020. Many students left St. Kitts in March 2020 to continue their studies remotely from other locations. As of May 2021, all basic science students returned to St. Kitts where lectures continue to be delivered both in-person and remotely and with labs delivered in-person. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science program in fiscal year 2022 and 2021. We do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 on the basic science program in fiscal year 2023, unless students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. RUSVM continued to provide remote learning during the pandemic and students remained eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the CARES Act and the Appropriations Act. The Appropriations Act extended through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever was later, as described above. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations at select universities in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and the U.K. A few universities initially suspended onsite clinical experiences and transitioned students to online education. All universities have since resumed onsite clinical courses. The initial suspensions did not significantly reduce revenue or operating income in fiscal year 2022 and 2021. While we do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 at RUSVM, the extent of the impact on clinical experiences in fiscal year 2023 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19, the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines, and whether any pandemic surge affects healthcare facilities ability to continue to provide clinical experiences. Administrative Operations : Remote and hybrid work arrangements continue in both the U.S. and at foreign locations and employees have begun to return to offices. The remote work arrangements have not adversely affected Adtalems ability to maintain operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure