Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Adtalem Global Education Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is collectively referred to as Adtalem, we, our, us, or similar references. Discussions within this MD&A may contain forward-looking statements. See the Forward-Looking Statements section for details about the uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Throughout this MD&A, we sometimes use information derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto but not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these items are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations section for the reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Certain items presented in tables may not sum due to rounding. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying numbers in thousands. Discussions throughout this MD&A are based on continuing operations unless otherwise noted. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto. Available Information We use our website (www.adtalem.com) as a routine channel of distribution of company information, including press releases, presentations, and supplemental information, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our website in addition to following press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts. You may also access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The content of the websites mentioned above is not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. Segments Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, Adtalem eliminated its Financial Services segment when the Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists (ACAMS), Becker Professional Education (Becker), OnCourse Learning (OCL), and EduPristine were classified as discontinued operations and assets held for sale. In 40 Table of Contents accordance with GAAP, we have classified the ACAMS, Becker, OCL, and EduPristine entities as Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations in all periods presented as applicable. As a result, all financial results, disclosures, and discussions of continuing operations in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q exclude ACAMS, Becker, OCL, and EduPristine operations, unless otherwise noted. On March 10, 2022, we completed the sale of ACAMS, Becker, and OCL and on June 17, 2022, we completed the sale of EduPristine. In addition, we continue to incur costs associated with ongoing litigation and settlements related to the DeVry University divestiture, which was completed during fiscal year 2019, and are classified as expense within discontinued operations. See Note 4 Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discontinued operations information. We present three reportable segments as follows: Chamberlain Offers degree and non-degree programs in the nursing and health professions postsecondary education industry. This segment includes the operations of Chamberlain University (Chamberlain). Walden Offers more than 100 online certificate, bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees, including those in nursing, education, counseling, business, psychology, public health, social work and human services, public administration and public policy, and criminal justice. This segment includes the operations of Walden University (Walden), which was acquired by Adtalem on August 12, 2021. See Note 3 Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the acquisition. Medical and Veterinary Offers degree and non-degree programs in the medical and veterinary postsecondary education industry. This segment includes the operations of the American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC), Ross University School of Medicine (RUSM), and Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine (RUSVM), which are collectively referred to as the medical and veterinary schools. Home Office and Other includes activities not allocated to a reportable segment. Financial and descriptive information about Adtalems reportable segments is presented in Note 20 Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain expenses previously allocated to ACAMS, Becker, OCL, and EduPristine within our former Financial Services segment during the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 have been reclassified to Home Office and Other based on discontinued operations reporting guidance regarding allocation of corporate overhead. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, these costs are being allocated to the Chamberlain, Walden, and Medical and Veterinary segments. Walden University Acquisition On August 12, 2021, Adtalem completed the acquisition of all the issued and outstanding equity interest in Walden e-Learning, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (e-Learning), and its subsidiary, Walden University, LLC, a Florida limited liability company, from Laureate Education, Inc. (Laureate or Seller) in exchange for a purchase price of $1.5 billion in cash (the Acquisition). See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this MD&A for a discussion on the financing used to fund the Acquisition. The risks and uncertainties related to the Acquisition are described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2022 (2022 Form 10-K). Second Quarter Highlights Financial and operational highlights for the second quarter of fiscal year 2023 include: Adtalem revenue declined $7.9 million, or 2.1%, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023 compared to the year-ago period. Net income of $24.1 million ($0.52 diluted earnings per share) increased $6.3 million ($0.16 diluted earnings per share) in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023 compared to net income of $17.9 million in the year-ago period. This increase was primarily driven by decreased cost of educational services, student services and administrative expense, and interest expense in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023 compared to the year-ago period, partially offset by increased business acquisition and integration expense. Adjusted net income of $54.2 million ($1.17 diluted adjusted 41 Table of Contents earnings per share) increased $16.4 million ($0.42 diluted adjusted earnings per share), or 43.4%, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023 compared to the year-ago period. This increase was driven by increased adjusted operating income at Chamberlain and Medical and Veterinary and decreased interest expense in the second quarter of fiscal year 2023 compared to the year-ago period. For the November 2022 session, total student enrollment at Chamberlain decreased 0.8% compared to the same session last year. As of December 31, 2022, total student enrollment at Walden decreased 7.8% compared to December 31, 2021. On March 14, 2022, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement to repurchase $150.0 million of common stock. We received an initial delivery of 4,709,576 shares of common stock. The ASR agreement ended on October 14, 2022. Based on the volume-weighted average price of Adtalems common stock during the term of the ASR agreement, Adtalem owed the counter party 332,212 shares of common stock. We elected to settle the contract in cash instead of delivering shares by making a cash payment of $13.2 million on November 2, 2022. Overview of the Impact of COVID-19 On March 11, 2020, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 has had tragic consequences across the globe and altered business and consumer activity across many industries. Management initiated several changes to the operations of our institutions and administrative functions in order to protect the health of our students and employees and to mitigate the financial effects of COVID-19 and its resultant economic slowdown. We will continue to evaluate, and if appropriate, adopt other measures in the future required for the ongoing safety of our students and employees. Management believes that enrollments are negatively impacted at Chamberlain and Walden, and to a lesser extent at Medical and Veterinary, by disruptions in the nursing and healthcare markets caused by COVID-19. The amount of revenue, operating income, and earnings per share losses in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2023 and 2022 driven by this disruption are not quantifiable. While COVID-19 continues to dissipate, management anticipates that the stress caused by COVID-19 on healthcare professionals will continue to negatively affect consolidated revenue, operating income, and earnings per share during the remainder of fiscal year 2023 and for as long as the pandemic and the various surges continue to stress healthcare professionals. Remote and hybrid work arrangements continue in both the U.S. and at foreign locations. The remote work arrangements have not adversely affected Adtalems ability to maintain operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure