Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Adtalem Global Education Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is collectively referred to as Adtalem, we, our, us, or similar references. Discussions within this MD&A may contain forward-looking statements. See the Forward-Looking Statements section for details about the uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Throughout this MD&A, we sometimes use information derived from the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto but not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these items are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations section for the reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Certain items presented in tables may not sum due to rounding. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying numbers in thousands. Discussions throughout this MD&A are based on continuing operations unless otherwise noted. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto. Available Information We use our website (www.adtalem.com) as a routine channel of distribution of company information, including press releases, presentations, and supplemental information, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our website in addition to following press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls and webcasts. Investors and others can receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts. You may also access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The content of the websites mentioned above is not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. Segments During the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, Adtalem made a change to its reportable segments to align with current strategic priorities and resource allocation. 41 Table of Contents Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, Adtalem eliminated its Financial Services segment when the Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists (ACAMS), Becker Professional Education (Becker), OnCourse Learning (OCL), and EduPristine were classified as discontinued operations and assets held for sale. In accordance with GAAP, we have classified ACAMS, Becker, OCL, and EduPristine entities as Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations in all periods presented as applicable. As a result, all financial results, disclosures, and discussions of continuing operations in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q exclude ACAMS, Becker, OCL, and EduPristine operations, unless otherwise noted. On March 10, 2022, we completed the sale of ACAMS, Becker, and OCL. We are in the process of selling EduPristine and expect to close during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2022. In addition, we continue to incur costs associated with ongoing litigation and settlements related to the DeVry University divestiture, which was completed during fiscal year 2019, and are classified as expense within discontinued operations. See Note 4 Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discontinued operations information. We present three reportable segments as follows: Chamberlain Offers degree and non-degree programs in the nursing postsecondary education industry. This segment includes the operations of Chamberlain University (Chamberlain). Walden Offers more than 100 online certificate, bachelors, masters, and doctoral degrees, including those in nursing, education, counseling, business, psychology, public health, social work and human services, public administration and public policy, and criminal justice. This segment includes the operations of Walden University (Walden), which was acquired by Adtalem on August 12, 2021. See Note 3 Acquisitions to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the acquisition. Medical and Veterinary Offers degree and non-degree programs in the medical and veterinary postsecondary education industry. This segment includes the operations of the American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC), Ross University School of Medicine (RUSM), and Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine (RUSVM), which are collectively referred to as the medical and veterinary schools. Home Office and Other includes activities not allocated to a reportable segment. Financial and descriptive information about Adtalems reportable segments is presented in Note 20 Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain expenses previously allocated to ACAMS, Becker, OCL, and EduPristine within our former Financial Services segment during fiscal year 2021 and the first quarter of fiscal year 2022 have been reclassified to Home Office and Other based on discontinued operations reporting guidance regarding allocation of corporate overhead. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal year 2022, these costs are being allocated to the Chamberlain, Walden, and Medical and Veterinary segments. Walden University Acquisition On August 12, 2021, Adtalem completed the acquisition of all the issued and outstanding equity interest in Walden e-Learning, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (e-Learning), and its subsidiary, Walden University, LLC, a Florida limited liability company, from Laureate Education, Inc. (Laureate or Seller) in exchange for a purchase price of $1.5 billion in cash, as set forth in the Membership Interest Purchase Agreement, as amended (the Agreement) (the Acquisition). See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section of this MD&A for a discussion on the financing used to fund the Acquisition. The risks and uncertainties related to the Acquisition are described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2021 (2021 Form 10-K). Third Quarter Highlights Financial and operational highlights for the third quarter of fiscal year 2022 include: Adtalem revenue grew $135.4 million, or 58.8%, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2022 compared to the year-ago quarter. Excluding the effect of the Walden acquisition, Adtalem revenue declined $3.7 million, or 1.6%, in the third 42 Table of Contents quarter of fiscal year 2022 compared to the year-ago quarter. The Medical and Veterinary segment revenue was relatively flat compared to the year-ago quarter, while the Chamberlain segment saw a decline in revenue. Net income attributable to Adtalem of $349.8 million ($7.09 diluted earnings per share) increased $325.2 million ($6.61 diluted earnings per share) in the third quarter of fiscal year 2022 compared to net income attributable to Adtalem of $24.7 million in the year-ago quarter. This increase was primarily driven by the gain on the disposal of ACAMS, Becker, and OCL, partially offset by increased interest expense. Net income from continuing operations excluding special items of $42.8 million ($0.87 diluted earnings per share) increased $12.1 million ($0.27 diluted earnings per share), or 39.5%, in the third quarter of fiscal year 2022 compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase was driven principally by the addition of Walden operations, partially offset by increased interest expense. For the March 2022 session, total student enrollment at Chamberlain decreased 4.3% compared to the same session last year. Chamberlain experienced declining enrollment in several programs, with the most pronounced being in the Registered Nurse to Bachelor of Science in Nursing (RN-to-BSN) online degree program. On August 12, 2021, Adtalem completed its acquisition of Walden. As of March 31, 2022, total student enrollment at Walden was 42,788 students. Total enrollment decreased 8.4% compared to the same session last year. (Prior year figures are as calculated in the prior year by Walden while controlled by Laureate these figures are used for comparative purposes only.) On March 11, 2022, we made a prepayment of $396.7 million on our Term Loan B debt. Subsequent to the end of the third quarter, on April 11, 2022, we repaid $373.3 of our 5.50% Senior Secured Notes due 2028 (the Notes), for cash at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the Notes. On March 14, 2022, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement to repurchase $150.0 million of common stock. We received an initial delivery of 4,709,576 shares of common stock. The final settlement of the ASR agreement is expected to be completed no later than during the second quarter of fiscal year 2023. On March 1, 2022, we announced that the Board of Directors (the Board) authorized Adtalems thirteenth share repurchase program, which allows Adtalem to repurchase up to $300.0 million of its common stock through February 25, 2025. No repurchases were made under this program during the third quarter of fiscal year 2022. Overview of the Impact of COVID-19 On March 11, 2020, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 has had tragic consequences across the globe and altered business and consumer activity across many industries. Management initiated several changes to the operations of our institutions and administrative functions in order to protect the health of our students and employees and to mitigate the financial effects of COVID-19 and its resultant economic slowdown. We will continue to evaluate, and if appropriate, adopt other measures in the future required for the ongoing safety of our students and employees. Results of Operations Management believes the decreased enrollments at Chamberlain and Walden, and to a lesser extent at Medical and Veterinary, are partially driven by disruptions in the nursing and healthcare markets caused by COVID-19. The amount of revenue, operating income, and earnings per share losses in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022 driven by this disruption are not quantifiable. Management anticipates COVID-19 will continue to negatively affect consolidated revenue, operating income, and earnings per share during the remainder of fiscal year 2022 and beyond or for as long as the pandemic and the various surges continue. In the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022, we experienced higher variable expenses associated with bringing students back to campus and providing a safe environment in the context of COVID-19 as in-person instruction continues at Chamberlain and the medical and veterinary schools. These higher variable expenses are expected to continue during the remainder of fiscal year 2022; however, these are expenses incurred in the normal course of on campus operations and will not be categorized as COVID-19 expenses. COVID-19 effects on the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022 and 2021 results of operations of the Adtalem institutions are described below. 43 Table of Contents Chamberlain : Approximately 30% of Chamberlains students are based at campus locations and pursuing their Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree; at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, all campus-based students transitioned to online learning for didactic and select clinical experiences. The remaining 70% of Chamberlains students are enrolled in online programs that may or may not have clinical components and those programs continued to successfully operate. Students and employees have returned to all Chamberlain campuses for onsite instruction. Management believes that COVID-19 disruptions in the healthcare industry may have driven the enrollment decisions of potential students in the September 2021 through March 2022 sessions; however, the resulting revenue losses specific to COVID-19 are not quantifiable. COVID-19 did not result in significantly increased costs at Chamberlain in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022 or 2021. The extent of the impact during the remainder of fiscal year 2022 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19, the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines, and whether any pandemic surge affects healthcare facilities ability to continue to provide clinical experiences. Chamberlain has clinical partnerships with healthcare facilities across the U.S., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. Walden : All of Waldens students are enrolled in online programs and these programs have continued to successfully operate throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. Management believes that COVID-19 disruptions in the healthcare industry may have driven the enrollment decisions of potential students in the first nine months of fiscal year 2022; however, the resulting revenue losses specific to COVID-19 are not quantifiable. COVID-19 did not result in increased costs at Walden in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022. The extent of the impact during the remainder of fiscal year 2022 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines. AUC and RUSM : Medical students enrolled in the basic science portion of their program transitioned to online learning at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak. Many students left St. Maarten and Barbados to continue their studies remotely from other locations. AUC and RUSM were able to provide remote learning and have students remain eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the U.S. Secretary of Education that was included in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) signed into law in March 2020. The waiver was dependent upon the host countrys coronavirus state of emergency declaration. The nation of St. Maarten lifted their declaration in June 2020, and as a result, AUCs ability to offer distance education ended after the September 2020 semester, requiring all AUC students to return to St. Maarten for basic science instruction effective January 2021. A limited number of RUSM students began returning to Barbados in January and May 2021 with a full return occurring for the September 2021 semester. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (the Appropriations Act) was signed into law in December 2020, and corrected technical errors in the CARES Act, which clarified the authority to operate via distance learning due to a declaration of an emergency in an applicable country or a qualifying emergency in the U.S. This section also extends these flexibilities through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever is later. The Appropriations Act provides Adtalems foreign institutions the ability to continue distance education without disruption to their students Title IV federal financial aid. Management believes uncertainties caused by COVID-19 may have driven the enrollment decisions of potential and current students; however, COVID-19 did not result in significant or quantifiable revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science programs at the medical schools in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022 or 2021, except with respect to housing operations in fiscal year 2021, as discussed below. COVID-19 will likely continue to have a minimal impact on basic science program revenue in fiscal year 2022 and beyond, unless significant numbers of students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. The extent of the impact during the remainder of fiscal year 2022 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations in the U.S. and the U.K. Clinical rotations for all students were temporarily suspended in March 2020; however, some students were able to participate in online clinical elective courses during this transition period and beyond. The COVID-19 surge experienced during the winter in fiscal year 2021 across the U.S. caused many partner hospitals to again reduce the hours available for clinical experiences. As a result, although many students were able to resume their clinical education during the second quarter of fiscal year 2021, management estimates that not being able to offer a full clinical program reduced combined revenue of AUC and RUSM by approximately $6 million and $13 million and operating income losses by approximately $4 million and $8 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2021, respectively. As of June 2021, all clinical partners of AUC and RUSM resumed their clinical programs. As a result, COVID-19 did not result in any lost clinical revenue in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022. Should future surges in COVID-19 again restrict the number of clinical 44 Table of Contents hours available to our students, we could experience negative effects on revenue and operating income in future periods. Adtalem has clinical partnerships with hospitals across the U.S. and the U.K., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. In addition to the loss of clinical revenue and operating income at AUC and RUSM, management estimates losses of housing and student transportation revenue of approximately $3 million and $11 million and operating income losses of approximately $2 million and $8 million in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2021, respectively, due to students not returning to the St. Maarten and Barbados campuses. All students were allowed back on the two campuses in the first quarter of fiscal year 2022, and therefore, COVID-19 did not result in lost housing and student transportation revenue in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022. RUSVM: All basic science veterinary students transitioned to online learning beginning in March 2020. Many students left St. Kitts in March 2020 to continue their studies remotely from other locations. As of May 2021, all basic science students returned to St. Kitts where lectures continue to be delivered in-person and remotely and labs are in-person. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science program in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022 or 2021. We do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 on the basic science program for the remainder of fiscal year 2022 and beyond, unless students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. RUSVM continued to provide remote learning during the pandemic and students remained eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the CARES Act and the Appropriations Act. The Appropriations Act extends through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever is later, as described above. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations at select universities in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and the U.K. A few universities initially suspended onsite clinical experiences and transitioned students to online education. All universities have since resumed onsite clinical courses. The initial suspensions did not significantly reduce revenue or operating income in the third quarter and first nine months of fiscal year 2022 or 2021. While we do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 at RUSVM, the extent of the impact on clinical experiences during the remainder of fiscal year 2022 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines. Administrative Operations : Remote work arrangements continue in both the U.S. and at foreign locations; however, a limited number of colleagues have begun to return to the office. The remote work arrangements have not adversely affected Adtalems ability to maintain operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure