Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those reflected in the forward-looking statements. These factors include, without limitation: our ability to respond to technological development and evolving industry standards; our ability to compete with our current and future competitors; our ability to retain existing customers, obtain new customers and generate revenue from new customers; system failures, security breaches, cyberattacks or natural disasters that could interrupt the operation of our platform and data centers; our reliance on demand- and supply-side advertising platforms, ad servers and social platforms to accept and integrate with our technology; economic downturns and unstable market conditions (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and Russias invasion of Ukraine); our ability to integrate businesses acquired; acquired businesses may disrupt our ongoing business, and the benefits of the acquisition may not be realized and could expose us to unknown costs and liabilities; the ability of our integration partners to accurately and timely pay us; 2 Table of Contents defects, errors or inaccuracies associated with our platform; our long and time consuming sales cycles; our ability to retain our senior management team and other key personnel and to hire additional qualified personnel; our environmental, social and governance efforts and meeting our stakeholders expectations relating to such practices; the application, interpretation, and enforcement of digital advertising and data privacy and protection laws and regulations; the impact of public criticism of digital advertising technology on our business; the assertion of third-party intellectual property rights and our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights; our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally; our use of open source software; seasonal fluctuations in advertising activity; our limited operating history; adverse developments in the tax laws and regulations; our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth may prove to be inaccurate; impairment of goodwill or other intangible and long-lived assets; restrictions contained in the New Revolving Credit Facility (as defined herein); future sales of shares by us or our existing stockholders; lack of research or misleading or unfavorable research published about our business by securities or industry analysts; the significant influence over us by funds affiliated with Providence Equity Partners L.L.C. (Providence); future offerings of debt or equity securities that would rank senior to our common stock; our ability to maintain an effective system of internal controls; 3 Table of Contents our ability to fulfill our obligations incident to being a public company, including compliance with the Exchange Act and the requirements of the NYSE, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act); and the possibility of being subject to securities class action litigation due to future stock price volatility. You should read this Annual Report on Form 10-K completely and with the understanding that actual future results may be materially different from expectations. All forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are qualified by these cautionary statements. These forward-looking statements are made only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and we do not undertake any obligation, other than as may be required by law, to update or revise any forward-looking or cautionary statements to reflect changes in assumptions, the occurrence of events, unanticipated or otherwise, and changes in future operating results over time or otherwise. MARKET AND INDUSTRY DATA This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes industry and market data and forecasts pertaining to the industry and markets of DoubleVerify Holdings, Inc. (DoubleVerify), including market sizes, market share, market positions and other industry data. Such information is based on our analysis of multiple sources, including publicly available information, industry publications and surveys, reports from government agencies, reports by market research firms and consultants and our own estimates based on internal company data and our managements knowledge of and experience in the market sectors in which we compete (together, the Company Data Analysis). The third-party information contained within the Company Data Analysis has primarily been derived or extrapolated from reports prepared or published by Ad Age, Boston Consulting Group, eMarketer, Juniper Research, Magna Global, GroupM, Statista, The Harris Poll and Merkle. We have not independently verified the market and industry data from third-party sources and thus the accuracy and completeness of such information cannot be guaranteed. This information cannot always be verified with complete certainty due to the limits on the availability and reliability of raw data, the voluntary nature of the data gathering process, and other limitations and uncertainties inherent in surveys of market size. SERVICE MARKS, TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES We hold various service marks, trademarks and trade names, such as DoubleVerify, our logo design, DV Authentic Ad, DV Authentic Attention, DV Pinnacle, Authentic Brand Safety and Authentic Brand Suitability, that we deem particularly important to the marketing activities conducted by each of our businesses. Solely for convenience, the trademarks, service marks and trade names referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are without the and symbols, but such references are not intended to indicate, in any way, that we will not assert, to the fullest extent under applicable law, our rights to these trademarks, service marks and trade names. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies which are the property of their respective holders. We do not intend our use or display of such names or marks to imply relationships with, or endorsements of us by, any other company. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms DoubleVerify, we, us, our, and the Company, as used in this report refer to DoubleVerify and its consolidated subsidiaries. DoubleVerify and its subsidiary DoubleVerify MidCo, Inc. changed their names from Pixel Group Holdings Inc. and Pixel Parent Inc., respectively, prior to the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All references to DoubleVerify and DoubleVerify MidCo, Inc. are to these entities both prior to and after the name changes. 4 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. Business Our Company We are a leading software platform for digital media measurement and analytics. Our mission is to create stronger, safer, more secure digital transactions that drive optimal outcomes for global advertisers. Through our software platform and the metrics it provides, we help preserve the fair value exchange between buyers and sellers of digital media. The advertising industry continues to shift from traditional mediums to an expanding array of digital channels and platforms. Digital advertisers have historically relied on inconsistent, self-reported data from a large number of publishers, social channels and programmatic platforms, making it difficult to form an accurate, unbiased view of how and where their ad budgets are spent. As objectionable content and ad fraud have proliferated across the Internet and other digital channels, advertisers are utilizing independent, third-party solutions to protect their brand equity and optimize the performance of their digital media investments. Our technology addresses this need by providing unbiased data analytics that enable advertisers to increase the effectiveness, quality and return on their digital advertising investments. Our proprietary DV Authentic Ad metric is our definitive metric of digital media quality, which measures whether a digital ad is displayed in a fraud-free, brand-suitable environment and is fully viewable in the intended geography. Our software platform delivers this metric to our customers in real time, allowing them to access critical performance data on their digital ads. Customers then leverage our data analytics to improve the efficiency of their digital advertising investments by avoiding wasted media spend on blocked or fraudulent ads and to optimize their media strategies in real time by verifying their highest performing ads and content. Our software platform is integrated across the entire digital advertising ecosystem, including programmatic platforms, social media channels and digital publishers. We deliver unique data analytics through our customer interface, DV Pinnacle, to provide detailed insights into our customers media performance on both direct and programmatic media buying platforms and across all key digital media channels (including social, video, mobile in-app and connected TV (CTV)), formats (including display and video) and devices (including mobile, desktop and connected televisions). Our technology enables programmatic media traders to evaluate approximately 215 billion transactions daily, ensuring that a digital ad meets the advertiser-defined quality criteria before it is purchased. We also analyze more than 7 billion digital ad transactions daily, measuring whether ads are delivered in a fraud-free, brand-suitable environment and are fully viewable in the intended geography. Our software platform and unique position in the advertising ecosystem allows us to develop a significant data asset that accumulates over time as we measure an increasing number of media transactions. We are able to leverage our data asset across our existing solutions as well as expand the data asset to launch new solutions that address the evolving needs of advertisers. Our blue-chip customer base includes many of the largest global brands. We serve over 1,000 customers that are diversified across all major industry verticals, including consumer packaged goods, financial services, telecommunications, technology, automotive and healthcare. In 2021, we had 64 customers who each represented at least $1 million of annual revenue, up from 45 such customers in 2020 and 41 and 25 in 2019 and 2018, respectively, with no customer representing more than 10% of our revenue in 2019, 2020 or 2021. In addition to locations in which we currently have a remote or contracted workforce, we serve our customers globally through our 19 offices in 12 countries, including the United States, the United Kingdom, Israel, Singapore, Australia, Brazil, France, Germany and Japan. 5 Table of Contents We generate revenue from our advertising customers based on the volume of media transactions, or ads, that our software platform measures (Media Transactions Measured), for which we receive an analysis fee (Measured Transaction Fee), enabling us to grow as our customers increase their digital ad spend and as we integrate into new channels and platforms. We have long-term relationships with many of our customers, with an average relationship of almost seven years for our top 75 customers and approximately eight years for our top 25 customers, and ongoing contractual agreements with a substantial portion of our customer base. We have maintained exceptional customer retention with gross revenue retention rates of over 95%, and 100% retention of our top 75 customers, in each of 2021, 2020 and 2019. We are also able to increase revenue per customer as we introduce new solutions, which has resulted in a compounded annual growth rate in average revenue for our top 100 customers of 49% from 2018 to 2021.The combination of high customer retention and multiple upsell opportunities has resulted in net revenue retention rates of 126% in 2021, 123% in 2020 and 156% in 2019. With respect to our overall business, we have delivered strong historical revenue growth, with a compounded annual growth rate of 47% from 2018 to 2021. Our History Our company was founded in 2008 and introduced our first brand safety and suitability solution in 2010. As the global digital advertising market has evolved, we have continued to expand our capabilities through new product innovation and partnerships across emerging programmatic media buying platforms and digital media channels, including social and CTV. Several key milestones since our company was founded include: 2008: Founded in Israel 2010: Launched first brand safety and suitability solution; Opened company headquarters in New York and established presence in London 2011: Launched first pre-bid targeting solution 2012: Launched first viewability solution 2013: Received first accreditation from the MRC 2014: Launched first fraud solution 2015: Integrated with programmatic partners, including The Trade Desk and Google 2017: Announced social platform partnerships with Facebook, Snap and YouTube; Providence acquired a majority equity interest in our company 2018: Launched partnership with Twitter; Opened international offices in EMEA (Germany, France), APAC (Singapore, Australia) and Brazil; Acquired Leiki Oy (Leiki) 2019: Launched Authentic Brand Suitability; Acquired Zentrick NV (Zentrick) and Ad-Juster Inc. (Ad-Juster) 2020: Expanded presence in APAC region (Japan, India); Launched partnership with Pinterest; Introduced CTV certification program; Developed and introduced new products, including DV Authentic Attention, DV Publisher Suite and our Custom Contextual solution; First third-party solution to gain MRC accreditation for integrated viewability measurement on Facebook 2021: Received MRC accreditations for display and video rendered ad impression measurement and sophisticated invalid traffic (SIVT) filtration, including app fraud, in the CTV media environment, and for video filtering, benchmarks, and CTV fully on-screen metrics; Completed our initial public offering of our common stock (IPO); Launched partnership with TikTok; Acquired Outrigger Media, Inc. (d/b/a OpenSlate) and Meetrics GmbH (Meetrics) 6 Table of Contents Our Industry We believe that our business benefits from many of the most significant trends in digital marketing and advertising, including: Significant Growth in Digital Ad Spend . The global advertising industry represented $710 billion of ad spend in 2021, according to estimates from Magna Global, and continues to shift from traditional forms of media to digital channels and platforms. Magna Global estimated that global digital ad spend, excluding search, reached over $216 billion in 2021 and is expected to grow to over $365 billion by 2026. We believe the shift towards digital spend will continue as new distribution channels and advertising formats emerge that enable advertisers to more effectively reach their target audiences. Based on the Company Data Analysis, the total addressable market for our core solutions was less than 25% penetrated as of 2020, and we believe that we have the opportunity to expand our customer base in response to increasing demand for our core measurement solutions. Acceleration of Programmatic Ad Buying . Advertisers are increasingly shifting their digital media buying to programmatic platforms, which automate the digital ad buying process through the use of computer algorithms and deliver targeted advertisements utilizing vast data sets. According to Magna Global, global programmatic ad spend was approximately $58 billion in 2021 and is expected to reach approximately $96 billion in 2025 and grow faster than the rest of the digital advertising market over the next five years. Programmatic ad buyers and trading platforms benefit from consistent access to high quality and accurate data and analytics to improve purchasing decisions and optimize the efficacy of their ads. Furthermore, advertisers value having a single, unified data source for all of their digital media transactions that they can leverage to help make real-time decisions on programmatic ad placements across all channels and formats. Emergence of CTV and Other New Digital Channels . Over time, the emergence of new digital channels, such as social, has attracted significant advertiser interest and investment. In turn, this has created additional demand for digital measurement and analytics solutions. According to Magna Global, global digital ad spend on social channels was estimated to be $129 billion in 2021 and is expected to reach over $232 billion by 2026. Today, CTV represents a large new frontier for digital advertising as the approximately $160 billion of annual global linear television media spend starts to migrate to digital channels. According to eMarketer, there was expected to be over $ 14 billion of CTV ad spend in the U.S. in 2021, which is expected to increase by 139% by 2025, with 25% of video ad inventory projected to be bought through programmatic platforms by 2023. CTV presents a significant opportunity for full-suite measurement and analytics providers due to the fragmented inventory and ad fraud emerging within this channel. Based on the Company Data Analysis, CTV fraud impressions increased by more than six fold from 2018 to 2021. Importance of Brand Reputation . With the increasing scale of digital media channels, advertisers are placing a greater emphasis on understanding where their ads are placed and the content with which it is presented. Context of ad placement has become as important to a brand as the content of the ad itself. Determining the context and content of a web page, streaming video or social post is more complex than verifying a keyword or article headline and often varies minute-by-minute. This challenge is further complicated by a significant increase in user-generated content, as ad spend on social platforms continues to expand. According to a study that we commissioned with The Harris Poll, nearly two-thirds of consumers expressed that they would stop using a brand or product that advertises next to false, objectionable or inflammatory content. More than ever, advertisers are being held accountable for brand and content alignment. In response, advertisers are adopting scalable, sophisticated brand suitability solutions to ensure effective use of their global digital media spend. Desire to Improve Media Quality and Effectiveness . The significant growth in digital advertising has resulted in increased fraud and wasted ad spend due to ads that are never seen. Statista estimated that approximately $65 billion of global digital media spend was wasted in 2021 as a result of continually evolving ad fraud activities, including bots, fake clicks and fraudulent web sites. New and sophisticated schemes, particularly across emerging channels such as CTV and mobile in-app, are uncovered each day. We have identified over 16,000 fraudulent CTV/mobile apps as of December 31, 2021. In addition, even when an ad is verified to be fraud- free, there is no certainty that it is actually viewable. To combat these issues, advertisers, digital publishers and media platforms rely on robust measurement solutions to validate the performance of their marketing campaigns and ensure that they are only paying for verified ads. 7 Table of Contents Rising Adoption of Independent, Cookie-Less, Cross-Platform Solutions . The proliferation of digital channels, formats and devices has made it more difficult for advertisers to measure campaign performance across all platforms. This measurement has been further complicated by recent moves by some large device manufacturers and certain closed platforms, which are often referred to as walled gardens, to restrict cookie and identifier-based data sharing. As a result, advertisers are increasingly adopting full-suite solutions that are not dependent on cookies or cross-site individual-level data trackers and can be used seamlessly across devices, the open web and the walled gardens. Point solutions that only deliver single metrics, often on a limited amount of media, and which are based on challenged data aggregation methods, continue to lose traction with advertisers. This has created a growing demand for independent, third-party providers that provide accredited and unified data analytics that improve the transparency and effectiveness of digital ad spend across the entire ecosystem without relying on cookies. Our Strengths We believe the following attributes and capabilities form our core strengths and provide us with competitive advantages: Best-in-Class Software Platform . Our technology stack enables us to develop proprietary advertising performance metrics on each digital ad transaction. This precision sets us apart from our competitors and allows us to combine and deliver performance measurements across fraud, brand safety and suitability, viewability and geography into a single, unique metric (the DV Authentic Ad), as well as the flexibility to disaggregate and analyze the individual measurements for each delivered ad. We believe we are able to provide the most robust data analytics in the industry, analyzing hundreds of data points for each delivered ad and across billions of ads every day, with approximately 4.5 trillion Media Transactions Measured by us in 2021. Broad Ecosystem Coverage . We provide comprehensive performance measurement metrics across all key digital channels where our customers advertise and deliver them through the major platforms through which they purchase advertising. Our technology is used in major platforms that provide direct, programmatic and social advertising, including Google, Facebook, TikTok, Amazon and The Trade Desk. As new media formats emerge, the strength of our solutions and the flexibility of our software platform allows us to seamlessly onboard new integration partners and secure new partnerships as selling channels for our solutions. For example, as CTV continues to become an increasingly prominent advertising channel, we have secured partnership agreements with multiple leading CTV platforms, including Amazon and Roku, that have certified our measurement solutions for use on their platforms. We believe that we provide the broadest integration and partnership coverage across the industry. Powerful Network Effect Fueled by a Robust and Scalable Data Asset . Our software platform and unique position in the advertising ecosystem allows us to develop a significant data asset that accumulates over time as we measure an increasing number of media transactions. This virtuous cycle allows us to deliver better results as we build broader data sets and enables us to enhance and expand the solutions we deliver to customers. We collected and analyzed data points on the approximately 4.5 trillion Media Transactions Measured by us in 2021, up from 3.2 trillion Media Transactions Measured in 2020 and 2.4 trillion in 2019. The knowledge from the billions of detailed data points we gather daily has enabled us to develop an extensive data asset that we leverage across our existing solutions as well as expand the data asset to launch new solutions that address the evolving needs of advertisers. The strength of our solutions attracts new customers which increases the ad transactions we measure and data we collect, further strengthening the value of our network. Compelling Value Proposition Driving High Customer ROI . We enable our customers to optimize return on their marketing investments for a fraction of the underlying media cost. Our unique data analytics are used by our advertiser customers to target the highest performing ad inventory and receive refunds or credits for digital ads that do not meet certain criteria. In addition, our solutions help our customers preserve one of their most important and invaluable assets brand reputation by ensuring ads are not shown near content that is inconsistent with their brand message. 8 Table of Contents Track Record of Successful Product Innovation . We have a track record of developing new solutions for our customers that provide increased relationship value and drive incremental average revenue per customer, thereby deepening our competitive edge. As of March 1, 2022, we had 142 software and data engineers throughout our six research and development centers focused on product development. We launched our first brand safety and suitability solution in 2010 and have continued to develop leading-edge solutions ever since. We have continued our track record of innovation in recent years as demonstrated by the launch of Authentic Brand Suitability, which we believe is the industrys first solution that allows advertisers to programmatically avoid unsuitable content across platforms using the same settings established for post-bid evaluation. In 2019, we launched our first CTV solutions which now detect over 1,000,000 fraudulent device signatures per day, providing significant savings to our clients by preventing wasted ad spend. In 2020, we developed DV Authentic Attention, which we believe is the first solution in the market to combine dozens of ad exposure and user engagement metrics on individual impressions to provide predictive analytics and improve performance outcomes, and introduced our Custom Contextual solution, which allows advertisers to match their ads to relevant content without depending on cookie-based or cross-site tracking. Loyal and Growing Customer Base . Our customers currently include over 50 of the top 100 global advertisers, according to Ad Age, including Colgate-Palmolive, Ford, Mondelz and Pfizer. In each of the years 2019-2021, we maintained over 95% gross revenue retention rates across our customer base and retained 100% of our top 75 customers. With this foundation, we were able to drive net revenue retention of 126% in 2021, 123% in 2020 and 156% in 2019 through increased advertising volume and the successful launch of newly-introduced solutions. This growth in our existing customer base together with strong new customer wins has increased the number of customers contributing over $1 million of revenue to 64 customers in 2021, up from 45 customers in 2020, and 41 in 2019. Scaled and Profitable Business Model . We have an attractive operating model, driven by the scalability of our platform, the consistent nature of our revenue, our significant operating leverage and low capital intensity. Our platform allows us to provide large-scale data analytics to customers around the world seamlessly and cost-effectively. We are able to scale our solutions efficiently and with limited incremental cost for new customers and additional solutions. Our cost of revenue (excluding depreciation and amortization) represented only 16.3% of revenues and helped deliver an adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (Adjusted EBITDA) margin of 33% in 2021. We have grown our business rapidly while also achieving profitability, demonstrating the strength of our platform and business model. For additional detail on costs of sales excluding depreciation and amortization, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Results of Operations. Well-Aligned with Privacy Restrictions and Platform Evolution . We believe that we are well-positioned to benefit from broader government regulations and changing industry privacy standards that increasingly restrict the collection and use of personal data for advertising purposes. Additionally, as device manufacturers and walled garden platforms aggressively move to curtail the use of cookie-based data collection across their properties, measurement, targeting and advertising analytics solutions that are not based on these tracking and collection tools will benefit. Our core software platform does not rely on third-party cookies, persistent identifiers or cross-site tracking technology to deliver our measurement and analytics solutions. Additionally, the core contextual data set that we use to provide our measurement and analytics solutions can also provide advertisers with an alternative source of data to deliver targeted advertising. To capitalize on this rapidly evolving environment and to leverage a system that is not reliant on cookie-based or personalized data collection, we introduced our Custom Contextual solution in late 2020, which allows advertisers to match their ads to relevant content to maximize user engagement and drive campaign performance, without depending on cookie-based or cross-site tracking. In February 2021, we released DV Authentic Attention, a performance measurement solution that leverages pseudonymous, privacy-friendly data to analyze advertising engagement, as an alternative to individual reach and frequency performance tools. As privacy restrictions evolve and tracking identifiers such as cookies become increasingly restricted by walled gardens, we believe there will be increased demand for our contextual targeting and performance solutions. Proven Management Team . We have a strong management team that has extensive experience leading software and digital marketing companies. We believe that our management team will continue to drive our growth, scale and solutions innovation. Furthermore, our Chief Executive Officer, Mark Zagorski, has significant public company experience, including as Chief Executive Officer of a public company in the digital advertising software industry. 9 Table of Contents Our Opportunity We are a leader in a large, fast-growing and underpenetrated market with significant tailwinds. There is strong global demand across the advertising ecosystem for independent third-party measurement and authentication of digital ads. Advertisers, programmatic platforms, social media channels and digital publishers are placing increased emphasis on the quality and effectiveness of digital ad spend across all channels, formats and devices. Based on the Company Data Analysis, we estimate that the total addressable market for our core solutions was approximately $13 billion globally as of 2020, and was less than 25% penetrated and is expected to grow to approximately $20 billion by 2025 with less than 50% penetration. We believe our market leadership makes us well-positioned to generate significant growth across this large, underserved market. Our growth is primarily driven by the fastest growing segments of digital ad spend, which are currently among the least penetrated with our solutions, including mobile in-app, programmatic, social and CTV. Our Growth Strategy We intend to continue penetrating the digital advertising market through the following key growth levers: Growing with Our Current Customers . We expect to continue to grow with our existing customers as they increase their spend on digital advertising and as we introduce new solutions. Our compounded annual growth rate in average revenue for our top 100 customers was 49% from 2018 to 2021. We expect the increased demand for third-party digital advertising data analytics to fuel continued adoption of our solutions across key channels, formats, devices, geographies and buying platforms. For example, we anticipate solutions like Authentic Brand Suitability, DV Authentic Attention and Custom Contextual, as well as the convergence of linear and addressable television, to continue to drive growth from our existing customers. Moreover, as content consumption shifts to platforms like Facebook, YouTube, TikTok and others, we expect advertisers will be keen to adapt their online presence as well as their quality and performance measurement solutions to these new and growing areas. These are trends we are poised to take advantage of as a result of our acquisition of OpenSlate. Expanding Our Customer Base . We intend to continue targeting new advertiser, programmatic platform and digital publisher customers who have not yet adopted digital ad measurement and analytics solutions, as well as those currently utilizing solutions provided by our competitors or point solutions. With the total addressable market for our core solutions less than 25% penetrated as of 2020, we believe that there is ample room for us to add new customers going forward. Expanding Our International Presence . We intend to continue to grow our presence in international markets in order to meet the needs of our existing customers and accelerate new customer acquisition in key geographies outside of North America. We are located in 21 countries worldwide, and our international expansion has accelerated our revenue growth in those markets. As of March 1, 2022, we have 316 employees based outside North America. Introducing New Solutions and Channels . We will continue to lead the industry in innovation by developing premium solutions that increase our value proposition to our existing customers. We have a strong track record of rolling out new solutions that have high adoption rates with our existing customers. We intend to extend our solutions capabilities to cover new and growing digital channels and devices, including CTV, new mobile apps and other emerging areas of digital ad spend. Pursuing Opportunistic M&A . Our management team has a proven track record of identifying, evaluating, executing and integrating strategic acquisitions. We have completed five acquisitions since December 2018 to expand our technology and solutions offerings and broaden our geographic footprint, including the acquisition of Meetrics and OpenSlate in 2021. We maintain an active pipeline of potential mergers and acquisitions (M&A) targets and intend to continue evaluating add-on opportunities to bolster our current solutions suite and complement our organic growth initiatives. We believe that the availability of borrowings under our New Revolving Credit Facility together with cash on hand make us well-positioned to capitalize on potential M&A opportunities. 10 Table of Contents What We Do We are a leading software platform for digital media measurement and analytics. Our leadership in our industry is based on our differentiated technical capabilities resulting from years of innovation, our breadth of industry accredited solutions and an expansive network of integration partners that enable us to analyze media transactions across the global digital ecosystem. Our solutions empower our customers to address the evolving and intensifying complexities of driving optimal outcomes for their digital transactions. We deliver our suite of solutions through a robust and scalable software platform that provides our customers with unified data analytics. Our broad market coverage of the digital advertising ecosystem and our leading software platform enables us to analyze billions of data points globally each day. We collected and analyzed data points on the approximately 4.5 trillion Media Transactions Measured by us in 2021, up from 3.2 trillion Media Transactions Measured in 2020 and 2.4 trillion in 2019. This volume has enabled us to build a self-reinforcing, proprietary data asset which we redeploy in new solutions that further enhance and expand the analytics that we can deliver to our customers and partners. Our Solutions The DV Authentic Ad The DV Authentic Ad is our definitive metric of digital media quality, which evaluates the existence of fraud, brand safety and suitability, viewability and geography for each digital ad: Fraud : Our solutions are designed to safeguard advertisers against increasingly sophisticated invalid digital traffic, such as bot fraud, site fraud, malware (including adware), and app fraud. We continuously monitor and analyze billions of delivered digital ads on a daily basis for aberrant activity in order to detect new fraud schemes. Each day, we identify over 2,000,000 active fraudulent device signatures, distributing them to our partners nearly 100 times per day, thereby enhancing the protection we provide our customers. Brand Safety and Suitability : Our customers use the data analytics that our software platform provides to target desired contexts and help prevent their ads from appearing next to content that they do not deem appropriate for their brands. Our brand safety and suitability solutions evaluate the full context of a webpage including the URL and the specific content. Our approach combines rich content ontology and proprietary artificial intelligence tools with human expertise to appropriately categorize content across over 40 languages. We offer brands the ability to dynamically configure over 70 avoidance categories, nearly half of which contain a risk tier aligned with the recently released industry- defined standards, such as disasters, inflammatory news and politics, and hate speech or profanity, allowing brand messages to be delivered in a curated and suitable environment. Customers can use our extensive content categories to target desired contexts for their ads, without relying on third-party cookies, persistent identifiers or cross-site tracking technology. We also offer Authentic Brand Suitability, which is an enhanced set of contextual targeting solutions that can be deployed across multiple programmatic platforms. Viewability : Digital ads are frequently obscured, paused before fully delivered or placed in locations that are out of view from the intended recipient. We help our customers determine if their ads are in-view by the recipient of each advertisement by providing advanced viewability metrics, including average time-in-view, key message exposure and video player size. Our solutions also leverage our historical data to predict the viewability of ads to optimize programmatic buying decisions. Geography : Many of our customers run distinct media campaigns that are targeted toward distinct geographic regions. The intended geography of these media campaigns may be specified due to the content or offer of the digital ad, the language in which it is presented or for regulatory and compliance reasons. Our customers leverage our solutions to ensure that their geographic targeting requirements are met and that there is language alignment between the digital ad and the intended geographic region. 11 Table of Contents DV Authentic Attention We developed DV Authentic Attention, a predictive measure of digital ad performance, by leveraging the data we aggregate to deliver our DV Authentic Ad. Developed in 2020 and released in February 2021, DV Authentic Attention is a performance measurement solution that we believe is the industrys most comprehensive evaluation of creative exposure and user engagement with a digital ad. When employed by our customers, DV Authentic Attention provides comprehensive, real-time prediction data that helps drive media campaign performance in a privacy-friendly manner, as an alternative to individual reach and frequency performance tools. DV Authentic Attention evaluates the real-time delivery of a digital ad by analyzing dozens of data points on the exposure of the digital ad and the consumers engagement with the ad and device. DV Authentic Attention evaluates the entire presentation of an ad through metrics that include viewable time, share of screen, video presentation and audibility. Our customers use DV Authentic Attention to predict which ads will impact consumers and drive outcomes, enabling them to make changes to their media strategies in real time. Custom Contextual In late 2020, we launched our Custom Contextual solution to enhance our programmatic advertising solutions. Advertisers use our Custom Contextual solution to match their ads to relevant content in order to maximize user engagement and drive optimal campaign performance. Custom Contextual metrics leverage our content-derived analytics data and are not reliant on third-party cookies or cross-site tracking technology. Custom Contextual enables advertisers to target audiences based on key points of interest even in web browsers and operating systems that have phased out or ended the use of third-party tracking technology, and also positions them to align with existing privacy regulations. Supply-Side Solutions We provide our software solutions and data analytics to publishers and other supply-side customers to enable them to maximize revenue from their digital advertising inventory. Supply-side advertising platforms (such as ad networks and exchanges) utilize our data analytics to validate the quality of their ad inventory and provide metrics to their customers to facilitate the targeting and purchasing of digital ads. We also provide the DV Publisher Suite, a unified solution for digital publishers to manage revenue and increase inventory yield by improving video delivery, identifying lost or unfilled sales, and better aggregate data across all inventory sources. The DV Publisher Suite provides the following features to publishers: Unified Analytics: Eliminates manual, cumbersome, and repetitive tasks with automatically pulled reports to quickly aggregate and normalize a publishers data and improve decision-making, ROI and operational efficiency. Campaign Delivery Insights: Tools gather, normalize and analyze campaign delivery to effectively drive yield on digital direct-sold inventory. Media Quality Insights & Optimization: Powering publishers with analytics and data targeting on deliverability, suitability, viewability and existence of fraud to gain insights into performance and automatically implement ad selection targeting to improve yield. Industry Benchmarks: Providing insight to publishers on the performance of their inventory in key metrics compared with competing publishers. Video Delivery Automation: Improves the user experience and maximizes video revenue from a publishers video inventory through automated healing and acceleration technology. 12 Table of Contents How We Deploy Our Solutions We provide a consistent, cross-platform measurement standard across all major forms of digital media, making it easier for advertiser and supply-side customers to benchmark performance across all of their digital ads and to optimize their digital strategies in real time. Our coverage spans over 90 countries where our customers activate our services and covers all key digital media channels, formats and devices. We also maintain an expansive set of direct integrations across the entire digital advertising ecosystem in order to deliver our metrics to the platforms where our customers buy ads. Our partner integrations include leading programmatic platforms, such as The Trade Desk, Google Display & Video 360, Amazon and Yahoo. Through these integrations, our customers utilize our solutions to better evaluate and optimize inventory purchase decisions. We also have direct integrations and partnerships with key social platforms, including Facebook, YouTube, TikTok, Twitter, Pinterest and Snap, as well as leading CTV platforms, including Amazon and Roku, which allow us to deliver more robust social campaign and CTV data analytics to our advertiser customers. Together, we work seamlessly to empower our partners by providing advertisers clarity and confidence in their digital investments across all key platforms. Our Customer Interface We believe our proprietary customer interface, DV Pinnacle, was the industrys first unified service and analytics platform user interface. DV Pinnacle allows our customers to adjust and deploy controls for their media plan and track campaign performance metrics across channels, formats and devices. Profile and Controls : DV Pinnacle allows brands to set profiles and adjust controls for their media plans verification settings which are then consistently and automatically deployed across all of an advertisers digital buying channels. Our customers use DV Pinnacle to configure their Authentic Brand Suitability settings such as inclusion/exclusion lists, override lists, custom keyword avoidance, inappropriate content avoidance categories, as well as app brand suitability controls such as filtering by app category, star reviews and age ratings. These settings are then automatically uploaded into our customers programmatic platforms for complete synchronicity between their pre bid and post purchase and measurement settings. Analytics : DV Pinnacle also provides over 745 analytics and reporting metrics and over 130 industry benchmark filters in an easy-to-use dashboard, in order to track campaign performance metrics across channels, formats and devices. This enables advertisers to gain a clear understanding of the quality and effectiveness of their digital media campaigns and allows them to take appropriate actions for campaign optimization. DV Pinnacle generates industry benchmarks that are dynamically refreshed enabling customers to compare the quality of their ads against their peers and allows users to set specific thresholds on key performance indicators that drive success of the media campaign, such as blocking rates, ad delivery and viewability. 13 Table of Contents DV Pinnacle screenshot: Integration and Channel Partnerships Our technology is integrated with leading digital advertising technology channels, supporting the distribution of our programmatic solutions and enabling us to analyze a broad footprint of data and deliver a comprehensive analysis for our customers. These digital ecosystem integrations are highly complex, requiring significant time and capital to develop, and they are a key driver of our success by creating highly scalable network effects. Our position as a strong, independent analytics partner has enabled us to integrate with key global platforms, including social channels, many of whom are very selective in granting third parties access to their technology environments. As new media formats emerge, the strength of our solutions and the flexibility of our software platform allows us to efficiently onboard new integration partners and secure new partnerships as selling channels for our solutions. For example, as CTV continues to become an increasingly prominent advertising channel, we have secured partnership agreements with multiple leading CTV platforms, including Amazon and Roku, which have certified our measurement solutions for use on their platforms. We believe that we provide the broadest integration and partnership coverage across the industry. Further, as we build new product sets, these flexible integrations and partnerships allow for seamless distribution of new services on existing partner platforms. We maintain a team of dedicated business development professionals who manage existing partnerships and develop new channels. 14 Table of Contents Select integration and channel partners include: Demand-Side Platforms : Amazon, Google, The Trade Desk, Yahoo, Amobee, AppNexus, MediaMath, Adobe Ad Platforms and Exchanges : Yahoo! Japan, SpotX, InMobi, Teads, MoPub, Tremor Ad Servers and Ratings/Workflow Platforms : Nielsen and MediaOcean Prisma Social Platforms : Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, Twitter, Snapchat, Pinterest, TikTok CTV : Amazon and Roku Our advertising customers often purchase the Companys solutions through a Demand-Side Platform. Demand-Side Platforms have technology to manage an advertisers bidding process on exchanges that facilitate the buying and selling of advertising inventory from multiple advertising networks. Customers leverage the Companys solutions on Demand-Side Platforms to enable the advertiser to evaluate the quality of advertising inventory up for bid on an advertising exchange. To make the Companys solutions available to advertiser customers through a Demand-Side Platform, the Company enters into agreements with programmatic partners that allow our technology to be integrated into the Demand-Side Platform and enable customers to access our solutions through the platform. Under the terms of these agreements with Demand-Side Platforms, the programmatic partner collects fees from the Companys advertiser customers and remits them to the Company. Because our advertiser customers obtain control of the Companys solutions to inform their purchasing decision, rather than the programmatic partners providing access to the Demand-Side Platform, the Company records revenue for the gross amounts paid by its advertiser customers for these Company-provided solutions, and the amounts retained by the programmatic partners are recorded by the Company as a cost of sales. The revenue we generated from our customers that was facilitated by our programmatic partnerships was $167.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, $116.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and $83.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. For additional detail on revenue recognition with respect to our programmatic partnerships, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Revenue Recognition. Customers As of March 1, 2022, we had more than 1,000 customers, comprising many of the worlds largest global brands, publishers and other supply-side customers, spanning all major industry verticals including consumer packaged goods, financial services, telecommunications, technology, automotive and healthcare. Our customers currently include over 50 of the top 100 global advertisers, according to Ad Age, including Colgate-Palmolive, Ford, Mondelz and Pfizer. Our solutions drive customer loyalty, with net revenue retention of 126% in 2021 and 123% in 2020 and, an average relationship of almost seven years for our top 50 customers. No customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Sales, Marketing and Customer Support Our go-to-market strategy for new customers is focused on driving awareness for our solutions, and fostering relationships with senior brand executives and Chief Marketing Officers of leading brands, agencies and publishers. Our sales presentation is focused on the market challenges that we address, the benefits that customers have achieved utilizing our solutions and the product innovation and differentiation that drive our superior results. We target the largest global advertisers and we believe that we offer the most comprehensive suite of solutions available in the market. 15 Table of Contents Our commercial organization is aligned by geographically focused teams, comprising sales and account management professionals in the Americas, EMEA and APAC, and professionals dedicated to global client and agency relationships. We regularly seek to expand into new geographies based on demand from existing customers and the attractiveness of the potential market opportunity, including recent expansion in Japan, India and the Middle East region. Our sales professionals are responsible for driving the overall commercial strategy, establishing early connections and maintaining relationships with large, blue-chip brands and global advertising agencies and expanding our existing customer relationships. Our customer support team handles all aspects of customer relationships from pre-sale technical support to client onboarding, training and implementation of our services. Account managers work closely with product managers to provide direct customer feedback, which is also shared with our technology and development organization, enabling them to implement ongoing improvements and identify potential new product categories. Our marketing teams objectives are to build brand leadership globally, drive sales empowerment through lead generation and top-of-funnel pipeline growth, and support customer retention and up-sell through industry insights, thought leadership and analysis of customer data. We execute this strategy through frequent publications of industry insight reports, whitepapers, case studies, earned media, participation at industry conferences and frequent engagement with the worlds leading brands. As of March 1, 2022, we had 358 professionals on our Commercial organization teams, of which 143 were sales professionals, 36 were marketing professionals and 179 were account managers and customer support representatives. Our sales, marketing and customer support expenses were $77.3 million, $62.2 million and $38.4 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. Product Development Ongoing product innovation is central to our business. Rapid advancement of our product capabilities has enabled our business to meet customer needs in the dynamic digital advertising landscape. Through our innovation, we have been able to seamlessly add new capabilities to our solutions over time. Our engineering team, consisting of 219 employees as of March 1, 2022, is responsible for the development of software and the operations of our infrastructure. As of March 1, 2022, we had 142 software and data engineers globally and six research and development centers focused on product development. We use an agile development process with automated quality assurance, deployment and post-deployment testing to rapidly build, test and deploy new functionality. Our product team, consisting of 129 employees as of March 1, 2022, is responsible for working with our sales, account management, marketing and business development teams to understand customer input, assess the market opportunity and define the product roadmap. This team is structurally aligned with our engineering organization to ensure there is direct accountability for all aspects of research and product development. Our team includes expert linguists, content classification analysts, fraud researchers and other supporting operational roles which provide the domain expertise and ongoing product development to ensure the highest possible quality of our technology. Our product development expenses were $62.7 million, $47.0 million and $31.6 million for each of the years ended December 31, 2021, December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development capabilities to extend our platform to cover a broader range of products, customers and geographies. Technology Our technology is designed to provide our customers with precise, real-time decision-making and measurement data across their digital advertising campaigns. Our proprietary technology analyzes more than 7 billion digital ad transactions each day, measuring whether ads are delivered in a fraud-free, brand-suitable environment and are fully viewable in the intended geography. We own or perpetually license all aspects of our core software which we have built to be flexibly implemented on a variety of environments, allowing us to minimize cost while delivering the latency, growth and privacy needs of our global customers. 16 Table of Contents Our commitment to providing innovative and accurate advertising data and analytics is accomplished through the following core technology components: Configurable Settings : We have built a flexible configuration profile and settings distribution solution that allows customers to apply our software to their unique needs and brand preferences. Our flexible technology ensures that new campaigns and configurations are distributed across our global infrastructure in minutes. Omni-Channel Display and Video Measurement Tags : We have built video and display measurement tags that seamlessly operate in any format or device, enabling simple tagging processes that minimize customer trafficking needs. Advanced Owned & Operated Semantic Science Technology : Our owned and operated semantic science technology provides accurate and granular content classifications using machine learning and an ontology of over 180,000 distinct content topics. Deterministic, Cross-Channel Fraud and Invalid Traffic Identification : We operate multiple proprietary fraud and invalid traffic detection models that benefit from the scale of the ads we analyze on a daily basis. Our fraud lab includes a dedicated team of data scientists, mathematicians and analysts from the cyber-fraud prevention community and we leverage AI, machine learning and manual review to detect new forms of fraud. Fraud signature updates are distributed into our serving infrastructure and to our partners nearly one hundred times per day to ensure maximum real-time protection for our customers and the deterministic nature of our algorithms helps to systematically assess risk. Deeply Embedded Technology : Our technology is deeply embedded into major platforms and partners that provide direct, programmatic and social advertising. These integrations represent years of collective development, joint integration and ongoing quality assurance work between us and our partners. Unified Analytics : Our customized analytics provide unified insights and analytics to both the digital advertising buyer and seller on every measured ad. We operate customized analytics dashboards, configurable insights and data delivery engines and seamless data integrations that maximize the utility of the data produced by our software. Privacy Framework : We have built a privacy framework that is directly integrated into our measurement technology. This framework allows us to modify our services in real-time based on the regulatory jurisdiction and data collection consent status of each individual measured ad. Additionally, our core software platform does not rely on third-party cookies, persistent identifiers or cross-site tracking technology when deploying our solutions, making them more compatible with the expanding global regulatory framework related to data privacy. Dedicated Information Security : Our platform hosts a large quantity of our customer media campaign data. We maintain a comprehensive information security program designed to ensure the security and integrity of our systems and our customers data. Our security program includes network intrusion monitoring and detection sensors deployed throughout our infrastructure and we leverage multiple vendors and a dedicated staff to provide 24/7 monitoring of our network. In addition, we obtain third party security assessments and audits of our infrastructure and security. Reliable, Scalable and Redundant Infrastructure : We operate a global proprietary and redundant infrastructure that is highly available, fault tolerant and capital efficient. 17 Table of Contents Certifications and Accreditations Digital advertising measurement is subject to numerous governing industry standards, guidelines and best practices. Supporting these standards are organizations that conduct audit-based accreditations and other certification processes for media measurement products and to renew accreditations on an annual basis. We have received accreditations and certifications from a wide range of industry bodies, including the Media Rating Council (MRC), Trustworthy Accountability Group, Audit Bureau of Circulations, German Association for the Digital Economy (BVDW) and Centre dtude des Supports de Publicit (CESP). In addition, as part of our ongoing commitment to privacy compliance and data governance, we are the only major digital ad verification provider to achieve certifications for EU-U.S. focused International Privacy Verification (IPV), Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Cross Border Privacy Rules (CBPR), and Privacy Recognition for Processors (PRP) through TrustArc. The MRC is a U.S. based independent organization that updates and maintains the Minimum Standards for Media Rating Research (the MRC Minimum Standards), which set strict guidelines for the media measurement industry and are intended to ensure: accurate, reliable, and ethical procedures for producing ratings and audience research; transparent and verifiable methodologies and survey information; and secure and thorough electronic data reporting systems. We are accredited by the MRC for our impression measurement solutions, including fraud, brand safety and suitability, display viewability and video viewability, and our proprietary metric, the DV Authentic Ad. In late 2020, we were the first third-party solution to gain MRC accreditation for integrated viewability measurement on Facebook. In early 2021, we received MRC accreditation for display and video rendered ad impression measurement and sophisticated invalid traffic (SIVT) filtration, including app fraud, in the CTV media environment and, in July 2021, we received MRC accreditation for video filtering, benchmarks, and CTV fully on-screen metrics. In 2021, we were also accredited by the MRC for classification in over 35 languages at the page and domain levels and accredited across 173 languages for language targeting and keyword blocking. To receive these MRC accreditations, an independent third-party conducts annual audits of our solutions to evaluate whether they meet the MRC Minimum Standards, which include a technical review of our measurement and data analytics services and an evaluation of how we operate within the technical environments of the digital advertising ecosystem. The accreditations and certifications of our products gives advertisers confidence in the efficacy and reliability of our solutions. These accreditations and certifications also ensure that our partners and other participants in the digital advertising ecosystem that are impacted by our digital media measurement can trust that our solutions are consistent, fair and meet industry standards. We continue to invest in maintaining and growing our accreditations and certifications as they are a key element to ensuring our solutions are trusted by market participants around the globe. The expansive coverage of our certifications and accreditations across metrics, standards, devices and regions represents a significant expenditure of capital and years of auditing that can be difficult for new market entrants to obtain. Competition We operate in a competitive end market with multiple different types of competitors. Our primary competition is other digital ad measurement providers, including Moat and Grapeshot, which are part of the Oracle Data Cloud, and Integral Ad Science. There are several companies that provide point solutions that address individual aspects of digital ad measurement, such as HUMAN (formerly known as White Ops) and Zefr, or geographically focused companies. Some of our ad platform partners also offer their own measurement solutions solely for ads placed through their ad buying tools. 18 Table of Contents We believe the principal competitive factors in our market include the following: the ability to provide a unified and consistent MRC-accredited measurement of digital ads across all formats and channels; the ability to provide accurate and reliable data insights on the brand suitability, existence of fraud and viewability of each digital ad to ensure that it meets all of these criteria; the ability to innovate and adapt product offerings to emerging digital media technologies and offer products that meet changing customer needs; the ability to support large, global customers and develop and maintain complex integrations with key partners across the digital advertising ecosystem; the ability to achieve and maintain industry accreditations; and the ability to collect this data across all key platforms and provide independent analytics to our customers. We believe we compete favorably on these factors and we will continue to provide valuable data and analytics to our customers. Seasonality We experience fluctuations in revenue that coincide with seasonal fluctuations in the digital ad spending of our customers. Advertisers typically allocate the largest portion of their media budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year in order to coincide with increased holiday purchasing. As a result, the fourth quarter of the year typically reflects our highest level of measurement activity while the first quarter reflects the lowest level of such activity. We expect our revenue to continue to fluctuate based on seasonal factors that affect the advertising industry as a whole. While our revenue is highly recurring, seasonal fluctuations in ad spend may impact quarter-over-quarter results. We believe that the year-over- year comparison of results more appropriately reflects the overall performance of the business. Intellectual Property The protection of our intellectual property is important to our success and our internally developed technology provides the foundation of our proprietary suite of products. We rely on intellectual property laws in the U.S. and abroad, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to protect our intellectual property. We believe our products are difficult to replicate and we will continue to enhance our intellectual property portfolio as we develop new products and services for our customers. As of March 1, 2022, we had two registered U.S. patents, six international patents (four in Europe and two in Japan) and eleven pending patent applications, including three in the U.S. We also hold various service marks, trademarks and trade names, including DoubleVerify, our logo design, DV Authentic Ad, DV Authentic Attention, DV Pinnacle, Authentic Brand Safety and Authentic Brand Suitability, that we deem important to our business. As of March 1, 2022, we had nine registered U.S. trademarks and nine pending U.S. trademark applications, and nine trademarks that we have registered in various jurisdictions abroad. People and Culture We help brands improve the effectiveness of their online advertising, giving them clarity and confidence in their digital investment. Confidence is built on trust. We work to build trust by ensuring our companys mission, team, and actions are aligned with transparency and authenticity. Trust is foundational to both the lasting partnerships we have built with clients and with our employees as well. 19 Table of Contents Employee Metrics Behind all of our innovations are talented people around the world who bring them to life. We believe that attracting, engaging, and retaining top talent is crucial to our continued success. We have over 800 passionate, accountable, collaborative, employees who are All In on our mission to optimize advertising outcomes for global brands. Two-thirds of our employees are based in New York, London, and Tel Aviv, and approximately 40% are located outside of North America. We also incorporate contracted resources when necessary or advisable to expand the reach of our full-time workforce. Diversity and Inclusion We are committed to fostering an equitable, intentionally inclusive culture, where differences are celebrated, marginalized voices are heard, and each employee is empowered by a sense of belonging. We take action to realize this commitment through building our capabilities, investing in our people to fuel ingenuity and innovation, creating workplace environments that foster partnership, community, psychological safety and belonging, and using data to quantify our progress and hold each other accountable. Investing in our people We believe inclusive benefits are a critical part of delivering an exceptional employee experience for our people. Therefore, we offer a competitive compensation and benefits program that supports our employees physical, mental, and financial health. To support the development of our employees skills and abilities, we provide a wide range of learning and growth opportunities including leadership, personal development, and other technical training. In addition, we provide tuition reimbursement for educational programs our employees may wish to enroll in outside of the programming we provide. We are dedicated to the health, safety, and wellness of our employees, as each is integral to our success as an organization. We provide our employees and their families with access to a variety of programs, including access to online mental health resources, wellness expense reimbursements, and paid time off for wellness days. We embrace a flexible hybrid work model, enabling our employees to split time between working from the office and working from home. The number of colleagues that are fully remote has increased and we continue to reimagine the future of work to support the needs of our people. Regulatory Matters U.S. and international data security and privacy laws apply to our business. As a general matter, our core software platform does not rely on third-party cookies, persistent identifiers or cross-site technology, but our measurement of digital ads depends, in part, on the use of certain tracking technologies to measure a users views and interactions with digital ads. As such, we rely on limited personally identifiable information to enable some aspects of our services. Our ability, like those of other advertising technology companies in the verification space, to use such tracking technologies is governed by U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, which change from time to time. Additionally, many countries have data protection laws with different requirements than those in the U.S. and this may result in inconsistent requirements and differing interpretations across jurisdictions. Governments, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing companies for compliance with data privacy requirements and the sufficiency of existing frameworks. Among the most sensitive topics currently being debated is the issue of the transfer of personally identifiable information between countries (known as onward transfers), with a particular focus on transfers from the European Union (EU) to the United States. After the Court of Justice of the European Unions invalidation of the Privacy Shield, a transfer framework established by the EU and the United States to facilitate onward transfers, the Standard Contractual Clauses, the transfer mechanism we rely upon, have come under scrutiny although they remain valid. The continued uncertainty around the feasibility of onward transfers from the EU to the United States has the potential to adversely affect our operations and business. 20 Table of Contents New laws restricting the collection, processing and use of personal data have been enacted in California (the CCPA and the CPRA) and other states in the U.S., Brazil (the LGPD) and Europe (GDPR), and more are being considered that may affect our ability to implement our business models effectively. Further, COPPA applies to websites and other online services that are directed to children under thirteen (13) years of age and imposes certain restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of personal information from these websites and online services. Changes or expansions to these and other legislation or regulations that further restrict the collection, processing and use of personal data, as well as the consequential changes to voluntary frameworks relied upon within the industry, could result in changes to the digital advertising ecosystem and our channel partners business practices and may require us to alter the functionality of our measurement solutions. We continue to monitor changes in all applicable data security and privacy regulations and laws in order to maintain compliance with such regulations and laws. Available Information We file Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and related amendments and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). You may access and read our filings without charge through the SECs website at www.sec.gov or through our website at http://ir.doubleverify.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Website addresses referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not intended to function as hyperlinks, and the information contained on our website is not incorporated into, and does not form a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report or documents we file with or furnish to the SEC. 21 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider and read carefully all of the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing us. The occurrence of any of the following risks or additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In any such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. This Annual Report on Form 10-K also contains forward-looking statements and estimates that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of specific factors, including the risks and uncertainties described below. Risk Factors Summary Below is a summary of the principal factors that make an investment in our common stock speculative or risky: If we fail to respond to technological developments or evolving industry standards, our solutions may become obsolete or less competitive. The market in which we participate is highly competitive. System failures, security breaches, cyberattacks or natural disasters could interrupt the operation of our platform and data centers and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our solutions rely on integrations with demand- and supply-side advertising platforms, ad servers and social platforms. Economic downturns and unstable market conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and Russias invasion of Ukraine, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have completed several acquisitions in the past and may consummate additional acquisitions in the future, which may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, expose us to unanticipated liabilities, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We are subject to payment-related risks, and if our ability to accurately and timely collect payments is impaired, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Defects, errors or inaccuracies associated with our solutions could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We often have long sales cycles, which can result in significant time between initial contact with a prospect and execution of a contractual agreement, making it difficult to project when, if at all, we will generate revenue from new customers. We depend on our senior management team and other key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to retain such key personnel or hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. 22 Table of Contents Data privacy legislation and regulation on digital advertising and privacy and data protection may adversely affect our business. Public criticism of digital advertising technology in the U.S. and internationally, including digital advertising on social media platforms, could adversely affect the demand for and use of our solutions. We are exposed to the risks of operating internationally. Our use of open source software could subject our technology to general release or require us to re-engineer our platform, or subject us to litigation, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects and may increase the risks associated with your investment. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Risks Relating to Our Business If we fail to respond to technological developments or evolving industry standards, our solutions may become obsolete or less competitive. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to develop new solutions and modify or enhance our existing platform in order to meet customer needs, add functionality and address technological advancements. To remain competitive, we will need to continuously upgrade our existing platform and develop new solutions that address evolving technologies and standards across all major channels, formats and devices for digital advertising, including mobile, social, video, in-app, display and connected television, as well as across digital media buying platforms, such as programmatic, direct ad exchanges and trading networks. We may be unsuccessful in upgrading our existing platform or identifying new solutions in a timely or cost-effective manner, or we may be limited in our ability to develop or market new or upgraded solutions due to patents held by others. In addition, any new product innovations may not achieve the market penetration or price levels necessary for profitability. If we are unable to develop timely enhancements to, and new features for, our existing platform or if we are unable to develop new solutions that align with advertiser demands as priorities shift or keep pace with rapid technological developments or changing industry standards, the solutions we deliver may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Further, if our existing and future product offerings fail to maintain or achieve Media Rating Council (MRC) or other industry accreditation standards, customer acceptance of our products may decrease. 23 Table of Contents The market in which we participate is highly competitive. The market for measurement, data analytics and authentication of digital advertising is competitive and evolving rapidly. As this market evolves, competition may intensify as existing companies expand their businesses and new companies enter the market, which could lead to commoditization and harm our ability to increase revenue and maintain profitability. Our success depends on our ability to retain and grow our existing customers and sell our platform and solutions to new customers. If existing or new companies develop, market or offer competitive products, acquire one of our competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors or integration partners, our ability to attract new customers or retain existing customers could be adversely impacted and our results of operations could be harmed. In addition, we have partnerships with platforms to allow our customers to utilize our solutions, and these integration partners, some of which have significant market share in the segment in which they operate, could develop products that compete with us in the future. Our current and potential competitors may have more financial, technical, marketing and other resources, as well as longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we do. As a result, these competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies or devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services. We cannot assure you that our customers will continue to use our platform or that we will be able to replace, in a timely manner or at all, departing customers with new customers that generate comparable revenue. We believe that our ability to compete successfully in our market depends on a number of factors, both within and outside of our control, including: (i) the price, quality and effectiveness of our solutions and those of our competitors; (ii) our ability to retain and add new integration partners; (iii) the timing and success of new product introductions; (iv) our position as an independent third-party within the digital advertising ecosystem; (v) the emergence of new technologies; (vi) the number and nature of our competitors; (vii) the protection of our intellectual property rights; (viii) the adoption of new privacy standards or regulations; and (ix) general market and economic conditions. The competitive environment could result in price reductions that could result in lower profits and loss of market share. If we are unable to compete successfully against our current and future competitors, we may not be able to retain and acquire customers and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. System failures, security breaches, cyberattacks or natural disasters could interrupt the operation of our platform and data centers and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our platform. A failure of our computer systems, or those of our demand-side integration partners, could impede access to our platform, interfere with our data analytics, prevent the timely delivery of our solutions or damage our reputation. In the future, we may need to expand our systems at a significant cost and at a more rapid pace than we have to date. We may be unable to provide our solutions on a timely basis or experience performance issues with our platform if we fail to adequately expand or maintain our system capabilities to meet future requirements. Any disruption in our ability to operate our platform will prevent us from providing the solutions requested by our customers and partners, which may damage our reputation and result in the loss of customers or integration partners and the imposition of penalties or other legal or regulatory action, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In delivering our solutions, we are dependent on the operation of our data centers, which are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, terrorist attacks, war, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our system and similar events. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of any issues or failures at our data centers could result in interruptions in the delivery of our solutions to our customers. 24 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to operate our platform and deliver our solutions may be interrupted by computer viruses, cyberattacks and security breaches. For example, unauthorized parties have in the past and may attempt in the future to gain access to our information systems and data. Outside parties have in the past and may also attempt in the future to fraudulently induce our employees or users of our platform to disclose sensitive information via illegal electronic spamming, phishing or other tactics. Our IT and security teams regularly review our systems and security measures and evaluate ways to enhance our processes and controls. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that a security incident will not occur or that any such incident will be detected or remediated in a timely manner. Any breach of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unauthorized dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive, personal or confidential data about us, our employees or our customers or integration partners, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of hacking, fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our employees, our customers or our integration partners to risks of loss or misuse of this information. Any such breach, loss, disclosure or dissemination may also result in potential liability or fines, governmental inquiry or oversight, litigation or a loss of customer confidence, any of which could harm our business and damage our reputation, possibly impeding our ability to retain and attract new customers, and cause a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Certain of our third-party service providers and other vendors have access to portions of our IT system. Performance failures or acts of negligence by these service providers may cause material disruptions to our IT systems. Our solutions rely on integrations with demand- and supply-side advertising platforms, ad servers and social platforms. Our solutions necessitate that demand- and supply-side advertising platforms, ad servers and social platforms accept and integrate with our technology. We have formed partnerships with these platforms to integrate our technology with their software, allowing our customers to utilize our solutions wherever they purchase or place an ad. These platforms may deploy code or change operations that may impact joint solution and combined functionality, which would have a significant effect on our ability to offer our solutions. Some of these integration partners have significant market share in the segment in which they operate. We can make no assurances that our existing integration partners will continue to, or that potential new integration partners will agree to, integrate our solutions. We also cannot assure you that our customers will continue to use our solutions available on these digital media platforms. Some of our integration partners have developed products that compete with us and we cannot assure you that other partners will not also develop competing products in the future. If our customers stopped using our solutions on these digital media platforms or if our integration partners decide to cease integrating our solutions, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Even if our integration partners continue their partnerships with us, we are continuously required to update and enhance our solutions to adapt to changes in software, networking, browser, and database technologies. For example, we may be required to make changes based on a unilateral change that an integration partner makes to its platform in order to integrate our solutions or to have the integration operate in the same manner that it did prior to the integration partners change. The integration partners change may cause a malfunction in the integration leading to a break in services. We cannot assure you that any updated solutions will be compatible or accepted by our integration partners. Additionally, some of our integration partners are subject to regulatory actions, which, if successful, could cause our partners to be broken into separate companies. Certain of our partners have been the subject of allegations of taking illegal actions to acquire rivals and stifle competition. If our partners and their products are separated into separate companies, it could have a material effect on our ability to gather data and there can be no assurance that all of the separated companies will continue to be our partners, each of which could materially affect our business, results of operations, and revenues. 25 Table of Contents Our business, financial condition and results of operations could also be adversely affected by social issues or disruptions. For example, if there is public disapproval or boycotting of a specific platform, our ability to optimize ad placement or to forecast usage may be impacted based on unforeseen trends or events. Additionally, how we categorize specific sites in the course of our normal business operations could expose us to risks from publishers or advertisers who may disagree with our categorizations and incur negative ramifications if they believe their ads were monetarily contributing to websites that contribute to the spread of hate speech, disinformation, white supremacist activity, or voter suppression efforts, among other things. If publishers or advertisers believe our categorizations are faulty or unreliable, they may decrease or cease to use our services, which could affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we rely on our demand-side integration partners to report to us on the usage of our solutions on their platforms, as well as revenue generated on their platforms. Any financial or other difficulties our integration partners face may negatively impact our business, as a significant portion of our revenue depends on customers using our solutions on these digital media platforms, and we are unable to predict the nature and extent of any such impact. We exercise very little control over our integration partners, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide and our reliance upon them for accurate data and revenue reporting. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with our integration partners could adversely affect our business, reputation and financial condition. Economic downturns and unstable market conditions, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and Russias invasion of Ukraine, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on the demand for digital advertising measurement and authentication and on the overall economic health of our customers and integration partners. There is no assurance the digital advertising market will experience the growth we anticipate. The health of the digital advertising market and the related measurement and authentication sector is affected by many factors. Economic downturns or unstable market conditions in the markets and geographies that we currently serve may make it difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, and could cause our customers to decrease their advertising budgets or slow the growth of their digital ad spend, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As we explore new countries to expand our business, economic downturns or unstable market conditions for geo-political or other reasons in any of those countries could result in our investments not yielding the returns we anticipate. The 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and related government mandates and restrictions have resulted in market and supply chain disruptions and a global economic slowdown, which have materially impacted demand for a broad variety of goods and services, and are also disrupting sales channels and marketing activities. The conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may affect how our customers conduct their businesses and adversely affect our customers willingness to utilize our solutions and delay prospective customers purchasing decisions. Our customers may decrease their overall advertising budgets as a response to the economic uncertainty, a decline in their business activity, and other COVID-related impacts on their business or industry. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted ad spend, including periods of more acute impact for certain categories, including consumer packaged goods and auto, in part due to global supply chain disruptions. While our facilities generally remain open, we are making extensive use of the work-from-home model at the moment and have begun the process of reopening certain of our offices in a phased manner. Remote working arrangements may expose us to increased security risk and privacy concerns and there may be heightened sensitivity from government regulators with respect to privacy compliance in the current environment. Over time, remote working arrangements may diminish the cohesiveness of our personnel teams and our ability to maintain our culture, both of which are critical to our success. Remote working arrangements may also adversely affect our ability to foster a creative environment, hire additional qualified personnel and retain existing key personnel, any of which could adversely affect our productivity and overall operations. In addition, our efforts to reopen our offices safely may not be successful, could expose our employees to health risks, and us to associated liability, and could incur additional costs. We may also have to close our offices again if the COVID-19 pandemic worsens and return to a work-from-home model. Our management team has been focusing additional time on planning for and mitigating the risks of the COVID-19 pandemic, including plans to reopen our offices, which may reduce the amount of time available for other initiatives. The long-term impacts, if any, of the global COVID-19 pandemic on our business are currently unknown and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially impacted. 26 Table of Contents For further discussion of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results, see Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Factors Affecting Our Performance COVID-19. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Risk Factors section. In February 2022, Russian military forces launched significant military action against Ukraine, and sustained conflict and disruption in the region is likely. We engage contractors in Ukraine and other areas in the region for certain finance and product support functions. Russias invasion of Ukraine could result in disruptions to our business operations in addition to general unstable market conditions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have no way to predict the progress or outcome of the military action in Ukraine or its impacts in the region as the conflict and government reactions are rapidly developing and beyond our control. We have completed several acquisitions in the past and may consummate additional acquisitions in the future, which may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, expose us to unanticipated liabilities, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We have completed several strategic acquisitions, including of OpenSlate and Meetrics in 2021, Ad-Juster and Zentrick in 2019 and Leiki in 2018. As part of our growth strategy, we regularly evaluate and may consummate additional acquisitions in the future to enhance our technology platform, expand our product offerings, broaden our geographic footprint, or for other strategic reasons. We also may evaluate and enter into discussions regarding an array of potential strategic investments, including acquiring complementary products or technologies. Our recent acquisitions and any future acquisitions or investments may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of an acquired company, and we may have difficulty retaining the customers or employees of any acquired business due to changes in management and ownership. An acquisition may also disrupt our ongoing business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing growth and development of our business. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the anticipated benefits of an acquisition or investment would be realized in a timely manner, if at all, or that we would not be exposed to unknown costs and liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business and financial performance, including: the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies; the potential disruption of our business; the inability of our management to maximize our financial and strategic position by the successful incorporation of acquired technology into our platform; unanticipated liabilities associated with an acquisition, including (i) technology, intellectual property and infringement issues, (ii) employment, retirement or severance related claims, (iii) claims by or amounts owed to customers or suppliers, (iv) adverse tax consequences and (v) other legal disputes; difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies, with respect to accounting matters and otherwise; the potential loss of key personnel of acquired companies; the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management and operational structure; increased indebtedness to finance the acquisition; entrance into new geographic markets or new product segments that subjects us to different laws and regulations that may have an adverse impact on our business; and 27 Table of Contents the diversion of management time and focus from operating our business to addressing acquisition integration challenges. Failure to appropriately mitigate these risks or other issues related to such acquisitions and strategic investments could result in reducing or completely eliminating any anticipated benefits of transactions, and harm our business generally. Future acquisitions could also result in the incurrence or assumption of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses or the impairment of goodwill, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to acquire businesses at attractive valuations or that we will complete future acquisitions at all. We are subject to payment-related risks, and if our ability to accurately and timely collect payments is impaired, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have a large and diverse customer and integration partner base. At any given time, one or more of our customers or partners may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or cease operations. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions could result in an increase in customer or partner financial difficulties which could adversely affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to customers, and if these effects were severe enough, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets and reduced liquidity. Furthermore, the payment risks we face are heightened since (i) our programmatic and certain other partners collect payments from all of our advertiser customers utilizing their platform and remit to us such amounts on behalf of these advertiser customers and (ii) media agencies pay us on behalf of multiple customers who utilize them, each of whom are subject to independent billing and payment risks as well. Although no customer accounted for more than 10% of our revenue in 2021, two programmatic partner platforms collected approximately 17% and 12% each of our total revenue in 2021 on behalf of our advertiser customers using their platforms. In addition, each of our customers and integration partners may have different payment methods and cycles. The timing of receipt of payment from our customers and integration partners may impact our cash flows and working capital. Defects, errors or inaccuracies associated with our solutions could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The technology underlying our platform may contain material defects or errors. If the data analytics we deliver to our customers are inaccurate or perceived to be inaccurate, due to defects or errors in our technology, our business may be harmed. Any inaccuracy or perceived inaccuracy in the solutions we provide could lead to consequences that adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: loss of customers; the incurrence of substantial costs to correct any material defect or error; potential litigation; interruptions in the availability of our platform; diversion of development resources; loss of MRC or other industry accreditation; lost sales or delayed market acceptance of our solutions; and damage to our brand. 28 Table of Contents We often have long sales cycles, which can result in significant time between initial contact with a prospect and execution of a contractual agreement, making it difficult to project when, if at all, we will generate revenue from new customers. Our sales cycle, from initial contact to contract execution and implementation, is often long and time consuming. Our sales efforts involve educating our customers about the use, technical capabilities and benefits of our software platform. Some of our customers undertake an evaluation process that involves reviewing the offerings of our competitors in addition to our platform. As a result, it is difficult to predict when a prospective customer will decide to execute an agreement and begin generating revenue for us. Even if our sales efforts result in obtaining a new customer, under our usage-based pricing model for most of our solutions, the customer controls when and to what extent it uses our platform. As a result, we may not be able to add customers or generate revenue as quickly as we may expect. We depend on our senior management team and other key personnel to manage our business effectively, and if we are unable to retain such key personnel or hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to compete could be harmed. Our company is led by a strong management team that has extensive experience leading technology and digital marketing companies. Our success and future growth depend to a significant degree on the leadership, knowledge, skills and continued services of our senior management team and other key personnel. The loss of any of these persons could adversely affect our business. Our future success also depends on our ability to retain, attract and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer service personnel . We have increased the size of our workforce by 80% since 2019 to more than 800 employees and expect to continue to grow in the near term. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain qualified employees, including significant expenditures related to salaries and benefits and compensation expenses related to equity awards. Providing equity compensation to employees through our equity compensation program is critical to maintaining our attractiveness as an employer in the technology industry. If there is volatility in our stock price, or new regulations relating to employee equity compensation, it may harm our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. Further, new employees often require significant training and we may lose new or existing employees to our competitors or other companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. In addition, changes to labor and immigration laws and regulations may adversely affect our access to technical and professional talent. Competition for personnel is intense, particularly in the technology and software industries. A substantial majority of our employees work for us on an at-will basis, and we may experience a loss of productivity due to the departure of key personnel and the associated loss of institutional knowledge. Our inability to retain and attract the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our international expansion has led to an increasing number of employees based in countries outside of North America. As a result, we may experience increased competition for employees outside of North America as the trend toward globalization continues, which may impact our employee retention and increase our compensation expenses as we endeavor to attract and retain qualified employees globally. With 316 employees based outside North America as of March 1, 2022, we are exposed to a number of additional country-specific risks. See We are exposed to the risks of operating internationally. Increasing scrutiny and evolving expectations from customers, employees and other stakeholders with respect to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices may expose us to new or additional risks. Customers, employees, governmental organizations, investors, proxy advisory services and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on ESG practices. While we are working to enhance our ESG efforts and related disclosures, if our stakeholders assess that our ESG efforts do not meet their expectations, which may continue to evolve, or we fail (or are perceived to fail) to meet the standards we set for our organization, our reputation, hiring initiatives, employee retention and customer and supplier relationships may be adversely affected. It is possible that stakeholders may not be satisfied with the ESG practices we undertake or the speed at which we implement them. We may also incur significant costs and resources to monitor, report, and comply with various ESG initiatives. 29 Table of Contents Data privacy legislation and regulation on digital advertising and privacy and data protection may adversely affect our business. There are a growing number of data privacy and protection laws and regulations in the digital advertising industry that apply to our business. We have dedicated, and expect to continue to dedicate, significant resources in our efforts to comply with such laws and regulations. For example, we have implemented policies and procedures to comply with applicable data privacy laws and regulations and rely on contractual representations made to us by customers and partners that the information they provide to us and their use of our solutions do not violate these laws and regulations or their own privacy policies. However, the application, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain and continue to evolve, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently between states within a country or between countries, and our current policies and practices may be found not to comply. Additionally, if our customers and partners representations are false or inaccurate, or if our customers and partners do not otherwise comply with applicable privacy laws, we could face adverse publicity and possible legal or regulatory action. Conversely, our partners and communications services providers have adopted their own policies based on their own perceptions of legal requirements or other policy determinations, and these policies have in the past temporarily prevented us, and may again in the future prevent us, from operating on their platforms and possibly result in loss of business or litigation. Any perception of our practices, platform or solutions delivery as a violation of privacy rights may subject us to public criticism, loss of customers or partners, class action lawsuits, reputational harm, or investigations or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could significantly disrupt our business and expose us to liability in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, U.S. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting new legislation related to privacy, data protection, data security and digital advertising and we expect to see an increase in, or changes to, legislation and regulation that affects our industry. For example, the EUs General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which became effective on May 25, 2018, and has resulted and will continue to result in significantly greater compliance burdens and costs for companies with users and operations in the EU and European Economic Area (EEA). Under GDPR, fines of up to 20 million Euros or up to 4% of the annual global revenues of the infringing party, whichever is greater, can be imposed for violations. The GDPR imposes several stringent requirements for controllers and processors of personal data and could make it more difficult and/or more costly for us to use and share personal data. In addition, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), which went into effect on January 1, 2020, limits how we may collect and use personal data. The effects of the CCPA potentially are far-reaching and may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and incur substantial compliance-related costs and expenses. In November 2020, California voters passed the California Privacy Rights and Enforcement Act (CPRA), which expands the CCPA with additional data privacy compliance requirements that go into effect on January 1, 2023 and may impact our business, and establishes a regulatory agency dedicated to enforcing those requirements. Other states have also recently introduced or enacted comprehensive consumer privacy laws that broadly protect personal data, including the right to opt out of targeted advertising and certain profiling activities, and more states are expected to follow. It remains unclear how various provisions of the CCPA, CPRA and other state laws will be interpreted and enforced. Further, the Childrens Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA) applies to websites and other online services that are directed to children under thirteen (13) years of age and imposes certain restrictions on the collection, use and disclosure of personal information from these websites and online services. Additionally, a data transfer mechanism we rely on called Standard Contractual Clauses has been subjected to regulatory and judicial scrutiny, particularly after a transfer framework for data transferred from the EU to the United States called the Privacy Shield was invalidated by the Court of Justice of the European Union, although they remain valid. The continued uncertainty around the feasibility of onward transfers from the EU to the United States has the potential to adversely affect our operations and business. These and other data privacy laws and their interpretations continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Noncompliance with these laws could result in penalties or significant legal liability. Although we take reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to regulatory action, including fines, in the event of an incident. We or our third-party service providers could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our or our third-party service providers business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our or our third-party service providers business, results of operations or financial condition. These federal, state 30 Table of Contents and foreign laws and regulations, which in some cases can be enforced by private parties in addition to government entities, are increasingly restricting the collection, processing and use of personal data. These laws are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change or interpretive application. We continue to monitor changes in laws and regulations, and the costs of compliance with, and the other burdens imposed by, these and other new laws or regulatory actions may increase our costs. In addition, failure to comply with these and other laws and regulations may result in, among other things, administrative enforcement actions and significant fines, class action lawsuits, significant legal fees, and civil or criminal liability. Any regulatory or civil action that is brought against us, even if unsuccessful, may distract our managements attention, divert our resources, negatively affect our public image or reputation among our customers and partners and within our industry, and, consequently, harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Public criticism of digital advertising technology in the U.S. and internationally, including digital advertising on social media platforms, could adversely affect the demand for and use of our solutions. Our business depends, in part, on the demand for digital advertising technology. The digital advertising industry has been and may in the future be subject to reputational harm, negative media attention and public complaint relating to, among other things, the alleged lack of transparency and anti-competitive behavior among advertising technology companies. This public criticism could result in increased data privacy and anti-trust regulation in the digital advertising industry in the U.S. and internationally. In addition, our services are delivered in web browsers, mobile apps and other software environments where online advertising is displayed, and certain of these environments have announced future plans to phase out or end the use of cookies and other third-party tracking technology on their operating systems in order to provide more consumer privacy. While our core technology and solutions do not rely on persistent identifiers or cookie-based or cross-site tracking, these changes and other updates to software functionality in these environments could hurt our ability to effectively deliver our services and make them less effective if our services are restricted from operating. We have also experienced significant growth in social media-related revenues and generate significant revenue from the use of our solutions on social media platforms, which have been and may in the future be the subject of avoidance campaigns or similar events, including ad boycotts on Facebook and Twitter. Any change or decrease in the demand for digital advertising, including on social media platforms as a result of avoidance campaigns or similar events, may negatively affect the demand for and use of our solutions. If our customers significantly reduce or eliminate their digital ad spend in response to the public criticism of the digital advertising industry or its related effects, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The success of our business depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of intellectual property rights in our business and rely on patent, copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide limited protection. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and with parties with whom we do business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology or the reverse engineering of our technology. We cannot make assurances that any additional patents will be issued with respect to any of our pending or future patent applications, that any patents issued to us will provide adequate protection, or that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or held to be unenforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot make assurances that any future trademark or service mark registrations will be issued with respect to pending or future applications or that any of our registered trademarks and service marks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries where our platform is utilized do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. A failure to protect our intellectual property rights in the U.S. or elsewhere could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents An assertion from a third party that we are infringing its intellectual property rights, whether such assertion is valid or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation, expensive licenses or other impacts to our business. There is significant intellectual property development activity in the measurement and authentication of digital ads. Third-party intellectual property rights may cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods or block us from expanding our platform and delivering new solutions, and we cannot be certain that our current operations do not infringe the rights of a third party. We have received and may continue to receive allegations and/or claims from third parties that our technology infringes or violates such third parties intellectual property rights. The cost of defending against such claims, whether or not the claims have merit, is significant and could divert the attention of management, technical personnel and other employees from our business operations. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is inherently uncertain due to the complex issues involved, and we may not be successful in defending ourselves in such matters. Additionally, we may be obligated to indemnify our customers or partners in connection with any such litigation. Intellectual property claims could harm our relationships with our customers and deter future customers from buying our solutions or expose us to litigation. If we are found to infringe intellectual property rights, we could potentially be subject to injunctive or other relief that could affect our ability to provide our solutions. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology and may be unable to do so, or such development may require significant time and expense and may not be successful. In addition, we could be required to pay royalty payments, either as a one-time fee or ongoing, as well as damages for past use that was deemed to be infringing. If we cannot license or develop technology for any allegedly infringing aspect of our business, this may limit our platform and solutions, and we may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are exposed to the risks of operating internationally. Our international operations are important to our current and future strategy, growth and prospects. We currently have operations in numerous foreign countries, including the United Kingdom, Israel, Singapore, Australia, Brazil, Mexico, France, Germany, Finland, Belgium and Japan, and expect to continue to expand our operations internationally. Our international operations are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which our services are provided. Local laws and regulations, and their interpretation and enforcement, differ significantly among those jurisdictions, and can change significantly over time. Some of the risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: the complexities and expense of complying with a wide variety of foreign and domestic laws and regulations applicable to international operations, including privacy and data protection laws and regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other applicable anti-corruption and anti- bribery laws; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations, including complex and costly hiring and termination requirements; reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns; trade disruptions or political tensions between the U.S. and foreign countries (including as a result of Russias invasion of Ukraine); fluctuations in currency exchange rates; potentially adverse tax consequences and the complexities of foreign value-added taxes and the repatriation of earnings; 32 Table of Contents increased accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; and difficulties and expenses associated with tailoring our platform and solutions to local markets as may be required by local customers, regulations and local industry organizations. Furthermore, our operations in the UK could be impacted by the UKs formal exit from the EU (Brexit). Although the UK and the EU have reached a trade agreement on the terms of their future cooperation, there is still uncertainty with respect to the long-term nature of the relationship between the EU and the UK. While we continue to monitor developments, at this time, we are unable to predict the full impact that Brexit may have on our operations in both the UK and the EU. Among other things, we could experience lower growth in the region, increased foreign currency risk, greater restrictions on business with UK customers and increased regulatory complexity. Additionally, our ability to manage our business and conduct our operations internationally requires considerable management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investments and additional resources required for establishing and maintaining operations in other countries will hold their value or produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. Any one or more of these factors could negatively impact our international operations and thus adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our use of open source software could subject our technology to general release or require us to re-engineer our platform, or subject us to litigation, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our technology incorporates so-called open source software, and we may incorporate additional open source software in the future. Open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses, which typically do not provide for any representations, warranties or indemnity coverage by the licensor. Some of these licenses provide that combinations of open source software with a licensees proprietary software are subject to the open source license and require that the combination be made available to third parties in source code form or at no cost. Some open source licenses may also require the licensee to grant licenses under certain of its intellectual property to third parties. Additionally, there is little case law interpreting such licenses and there is a risk that open source licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to provide our platform. If a third party that distributes open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur significant legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to significant damages, enjoined from the sale of our solutions that contain the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our solutions. In addition, we may be forced to re-engineer our platform or discontinue use of certain open source software, and related solutions provided by our platform that use such open source software. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Seasonal fluctuations in advertising activity could have a negative impact on our revenue, cash flow and operating results. Our revenue, cash flow, operating results and other key operating and performance metrics may vary from quarter to quarter due to the seasonal nature of our customers spending on advertising campaigns. For example, advertisers typically allocate the largest portion of their media budgets to the fourth quarter of the calendar year in order to coincide with increased holiday purchasing. As a result, the fourth quarter of the year typically reflects our highest level of measurement activity while the first quarter reflects the lowest level of such activity. Our historical revenue growth has masked the impact of seasonality, but if our growth rate declines or seasonal spending becomes more pronounced, seasonality could have a more significant impact on our revenue, cash flow and operating results from period to period. 33 Table of Contents We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects and may increase the risks associated with your investment. Our business was founded in 2008 and, as a result, we have a limited operating history upon which our business and prospects may be evaluated. Although we have experienced substantial revenue growth in our limited operating history, we may not be able to sustain this rate of growth or maintain our current revenue levels. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and challenges frequently experienced by rapidly growing companies in developing industries, including risks related to our ability to: build a reputation for providing superior customer service and for creating trust and long-term relationships with our customers; distinguish ourselves from competitors; scale our business efficiently; maintain and expand our relationships with customers and partners; respond to evolving industry standards and government regulation that impact our business, particularly in the areas of data privacy; respond to technological advances; prevent or mitigate security failures or breaches; expand our business internationally; and hire and retain qualified employees. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in addressing these and other challenges we may face in the future. If we are unable to do so, our business may suffer, our revenue and operating results may decline and we may not be able to achieve further growth or sustain profitability. We are subject to taxation in multiple jurisdictions. Any adverse development in the tax laws of any of these jurisdictions or any disagreement with our tax positions could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to taxation in, and to the tax laws and regulations of, multiple jurisdictions as a result of the international scope of our operations and our corporate entity structure. Adverse developments in these laws or regulations, or any change in position regarding the application, administration or interpretation thereof, in any applicable jurisdiction, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the tax authorities in any applicable jurisdiction, including the U.S., may disagree with the positions we have taken or intend to take regarding the tax treatment or characterization of any of our transactions. 34 Table of Contents Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our results of operations may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our revenues or results of operations do not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our revenues or results of operations include: our ability to retain and grow relationships with existing customers and attract new customers; the loss of demand-side platforms as integration partners; the timing and success of new product introductions, including the introduction of new technologies or offerings, by us, our competitors or others in the advertising marketplace; changes in the pricing of our solutions or those of our competitors; our failure to accurately estimate or control costs, including those incurred as a result of investments, other business or product development initiatives and the integration of acquired businesses; the effects of acquisitions and their integration; changes and uncertainty in the regulatory environment; the amount and timing of capital expenditures and operating costs related to the maintenance and expansion of our operations and infrastructure; service outages, other technical difficulties or security breaches; limitations relating to the capacity of our networks, systems and processes; maintaining appropriate staffing levels and capabilities relative to projected growth, or retaining key personnel; the risks associated with operating internationally; and general economic, political, regulatory, industry and market conditions and those conditions specific to internet usage and digital media. Based upon the factors above and others both within and beyond our control, we have a limited ability to forecast our future revenue, costs and expenses, and as a result, our operating results may, from time to time, fall below our estimates or the expectations of analysts and investors. We believe that our revenues and results of operations on a year-over-year and sequential quarter-over-quarter basis may vary significantly in the future. Investors are cautioned not to rely on the results of prior periods as an indication of future performance. 35 Table of Contents Our estimates of market opportunity and forecasts of market growth included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may prove to be inaccurate. Market opportunity estimates and growth forecasts are subject to significant uncertainty and are based on assumptions and estimates that may not prove to be accurate. Our estimates and forecasts relating to the size and expected growth of our market may prove to be inaccurate. For example, the digital advertising industry may not grow at the rate that we currently expect, the migration of advertising from linear television to CTV may not occur on the scale we currently anticipate, or the growth of subscription media platforms as opposed to platforms supported by advertising may all impact the estimates and growth forecasts we have included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Even if the market in which we compete meets our size estimates and forecasted growth, our business could fail to grow at similar rates, if at all. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we incur an impairment of goodwill or other intangible and long-lived assets. As of December 31, 2021, we had $350.6 million of goodwill and $173.8 million of other long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. We are required to test intangible assets and goodwill annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or there is a change in circumstance that would more likely than not reduce the fair value below its carrying values or indicate that the carrying value of such intangibles is not recoverable. When the carrying value exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. If the carrying amount of an intangible asset is not recoverable, a charge to operations is recognized. Either event would result in incremental expenses for that period, which would reduce any earnings or increase any loss for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. Our impairment analysis is sensitive to changes in key assumptions used in our analysis, such as expected future cash flows. Additionally, changes in our strategy or significant technical developments could significantly impact the recoverability of our intangible assets. If the assumptions used in our analysis are not realized, it is possible that an impairment charge may need to be recorded in the future. We did not identify an impairment of goodwill or long-lived assets for the years ended December 31, 2021 or December 31, 2020. We cannot predict the amount and timing of any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. See Note 4 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion on the goodwill recognized from our recent acquisitions. Restrictions in the New Revolving Credit Facility could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in the New Revolving Credit Facility, and any future financing agreements, could restrict the ability of DoubleVerify MidCo, Inc., DoubleVerify Inc. and their respective subsidiaries (the Credit Group) to finance future operations or capital needs or to expand or pursue the Credit Groups business activities. The New Revolving Credit Facility contains limitations on the ability of the Credit Group to, among other things: pay dividends or purchase, redeem or retire capital stock; grant liens; incur or guarantee additional debt; make investments and acquisitions; enter into transactions with affiliates; 36 Table of Contents enter into any merger, consolidation or amalgamation or dispose of all or substantially all property or business; and dispose of property, including issuing capital stock. The New Revolving Credit Facility also contains covenants requiring the Credit Group to maintain certain financial ratios. The Credit Groups ability to meet those financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot assure you that the Credit Group will meet any such ratios in the future. The New Revolving Credit Facility is secured by substantially all of the assets (subject to customary exceptions) of the Credit Group. A failure to comply with the provisions of the New Revolving Credit Facility could result in a default or an event of default that could enable our lenders to declare the outstanding principal amount of that debt, together with accrued and unpaid interest, to be immediately due and payable. We might not have, or be able to obtain, sufficient funds to make these accelerated payments. If the payment of our debt is accelerated and we do not have sufficient cash available to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could enforce their security interests and liquidate some or all of the secured assets of the Credit Group to repay the outstanding principal and interest, and our stockholders could experience a partial or total loss of their investment. For more information about the New Revolving Credit Facility, see Note 8 to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In the future, we may need to obtain additional financing that may not be available or may reduce our profitability or result in dilution to our stockholders. We may require additional capital in the future to develop and execute our long-term growth strategy. We believe our existing cash and cash generated from operations, together with the undrawn balance under the New Revolving Credit Facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. However, we may need to raise additional funds in the future in order to, among other things: finance working capital requirements, capital investments or refinance existing or future indebtedness; acquire complementary businesses, technologies or products; develop or enhance our technological infrastructure and our existing platform and solutions; fund strategic relationships; and respond to competitive pressures. If we incur additional indebtedness, our profitability may be reduced. Any future indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with restrictive covenants, which could place limitations on our business operations. Further, we may not be able to maintain sufficient cash flows from our operating activities to service our existing and any future indebtedness. If our operating results are not sufficient to service any future indebtedness, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing or delaying our business activities, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or issuing equity. If we issue additional equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution and the price of our common stock may decline. Alternatively, if adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our strategic initiatives, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our technology or services or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. 37 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly based on a number of factors that are outside of our control. Among the factors that could affect our stock price are: actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; changes in securities analysts estimates of our financial performance or lack of research coverage and reports by industry analysts; actions by institutional stockholders or other large stockholders (including Providence), including future sales of our common stock; failure to meet any guidance given by us or any change in any guidance given by us, or changes by us in our guidance practices; industry, regulatory or general market conditions; domestic and international economic factors unrelated to our performance; changes in our customers or partners preferences; changes in law or regulation; lawsuits, enforcement actions and other claims by third parties or governmental authorities; adverse publicity related to us or another industry participant; announcements by us of significant impairment charges; speculation in the press or investment community; investor perception of us and our industry; changes in market valuations or earnings of similar companies; announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, dispositions or strategic partnerships; war (including Russias invasion of Ukraine), terrorist acts and epidemic disease (including the COVID-19 pandemic); any future offerings of our common stock or other securities; additions or departures of key personnel; and misconduct or other improper actions of our employees. 38 Table of Contents In particular, we cannot assure you that you will be able to resell your shares at or above your purchase price. Stock markets have experienced extreme volatility in recent years that has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. DoubleVerify is a holding company with no operations of its own, and it depends on its subsidiaries for cash to fund all of its operations and expenses, including to make future dividend payments, if any. Our operations are conducted entirely through our subsidiaries, and our ability to generate cash to fund our operations and expenses, to pay dividends or to meet debt service obligations is highly dependent on the earnings and the receipt of funds from our subsidiaries through dividends or intercompany loans. Deterioration in the financial condition, earnings or cash flow of DoubleVerify and its subsidiaries for any reason could limit or impair their ability to pay such distributions. Additionally, to the extent our subsidiaries are restricted from making such distributions under applicable law or regulation or under the terms of our existing or future financing arrangements, or are otherwise unable to provide funds to the extent of our needs, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Future sales of shares by us or our existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including by Providence, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. In the future, we may issue additional shares of common stock or other equity or debt securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for shares of our common stock in connection with a financing, strategic investment, litigation settlement or employee arrangement or otherwise. Any of these issuances could result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders and could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more research analysts downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of the analysts ceases coverage of our common stock or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which could cause our common stock price or trading volume to decline. Providence has significant influence over us and may not always exercise its influence in a way that benefits our public stockholders. Providence VII U.S. Holdings L.P. owns a near majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result, Providence will continue to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring stockholder approval for the foreseeable future, including approval of significant corporate transactions, which may reduce the market price of our common stock. Because Providences interests may differ from your interests, actions Providence takes as our controlling stockholder may not be favorable to you. For example, the concentration of ownership held by Providence could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of us or impede a merger, takeover or other business combination that another stockholder may otherwise view favorably. Other potential conflicts could arise, for example, over matters such as employee retention or recruiting, or our dividend policy. 39 Table of Contents Even though Providence has reduced its beneficial ownership below 50% of our outstanding common stock, it will likely still be able to assert significant influence over our board of directors and certain corporate actions. Furthermore, by holding nearly 50% of our common stock, Providence generally will be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval, including the election of the members of our board of directors and the approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers and the sale of substantially all of our assets. Additionally, Providence will continue to have the right to designate for nomination for election one or more of our directors so long as it beneficially owns at least 5% of our common stock. Under our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, Providence and its affiliates and, in some circumstances, any of our directors and officers who is also a director, officer, employee, member or partner of Providence and its affiliates, have no obligation to offer us corporate opportunities. The policies relating to corporate opportunities and transactions with Providence set forth in our second amended and restated certificate of incorporation (the amended and restated certificate of incorporation) addresses potential conflicts of interest between DoubleVerify, on the one hand, and Providence and its officers, directors, employees, members or partners who are directors or officers of our company, on the other hand. In accordance with those policies, Providence may pursue corporate opportunities, including acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, without offering those opportunities to us. By being a stockholder in DoubleVerify, you are deemed to have notice of and to have consented to these provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation. Although these provisions are designed to resolve conflicts between us and Providence and its affiliates fairly, conflicts may not be resolved in our favor or be resolved at all. Future offerings of debt or equity securities which would rank senior to our common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we decide to issue debt or equity securities that rank senior to our common stock, it is likely that such securities will be governed by an indenture or other instrument containing covenants restricting our operating flexibility. Additionally, any convertible or exchangeable securities that we issue in the future may have rights, preferences and privileges more favorable than those of our common stock and may result in dilution to owners of our common stock. We and, indirectly, our stockholders, will bear the cost of issuing and servicing such securities. Because our decision to issue debt or equity securities in any future offering will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of any future offerings. Thus, holders of our common stock will bear the risk of our future offerings reducing the market price of our common stock or diluting their ownership stake in us. Fulfilling our obligations incident to being a public company, including compliance with the Exchange Act and the requirements of the NYSE, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act, is expensive and time- consuming, and any delays or difficulties in satisfying these obligations could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations and our stock price. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting, accounting and corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act that apply to issuers of listed equity, which impose certain significant compliance requirements, costs and obligations upon us. The requirements of being a publicly listed company require a significant commitment of resources and management oversight which increase our operating costs. Further, to comply with the requirements of being a public company, we have undertaken various actions, such as implementing new internal