Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations includes forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact, which includes statements regarding Adtalems future growth. Forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as future, believe, project, expect, anticipate, estimate, plan, intend, may, will, would, could, can, continue, preliminary, potential, range, and similar terms. These forward-looking statements are subject to risk and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expectations expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements are disclosed in Item 1A. Risk Factors, and elsewhere in this document (including, without limitation, in conjunction with the forward-looking statements themselves and under the heading Critical Accounting Estimates), all of which should be read in conjunction with the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. You should evaluate forward-looking statements in the context of these risks and uncertainties and are cautioned to not place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. We caution you that these factors may not contain all of the factors that are important to you. We cannot assure you that we will realize the results, performance or developments we expect or anticipate or, even if substantially realized, that they will result in the consequences or affect us or our operations in the way we expect. All forward-looking statements are based on information available to us as of the date any such statements are made, and Adtalem assumes no obligation to publicly update or revise its forward-looking statements even if experience or future changes make it clear that any projected results expressed or implied therein will not be realized, except as required by law. PART I Item 1. Business Overview In this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Adtalem Global Education Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is collectively referred to as Adtalem, we, our, us, or similar references. Adtalem was incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in August 1987. Our executive offices are located at 233 South Wacker Drive, Chicago, Illinois, 60606, and the telephone number is (312) 651-1400. Adtalem is the leading healthcare educator in the U.S. and a systemically important solution for preparing a diverse talent workforce that meets the needs of the healthcare industry. The purpose of Adtalem is to empower students to achieve their goals, find success, and make inspiring contributions to our global community. Adtalem is comprised of five like-kind institutions, with programs focusing on healthcare, including nursing, social and behavioral sciences, medicine, veterinary medicine, and more. Adtalem operates Chamberlain University (Chamberlain), Walden University (Walden), American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC), Ross University School of Medicine (RUSM), and Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine (RUSVM), which comprises more than 90,000 students learning at multiple campuses and online. Adtalems institutions have an alumni community of approximately 350,000. Adtalem is a mission driven organization, committed to delivering highly qualified healthcare clinicians to urban and rural communities as a scaled provider of workers to the U.S. healthcare system. Adtalem remains focused on expanding access to aspiring students through a seamless student experience, leveraging innovative learning technologies, bringing new programs to market, and utilizing our Growth with Purpose operating model to provide the infrastructure necessary to meet the needs of where, when, and how students learn best. Adtalem aims to create value for society and its stakeholders by offering responsive educational programs that are supported by exceptional services to its students and delivered with integrity and accountability. Towards this vision, Adtalem is proud to play a vital role in expanding access to higher education. 1 Table of Contents Segments Overview We present three reportable segments as follows: Chamberlain This segment includes the operations of Chamberlain, which offers degree and certificate programs in the nursing and health professions postsecondary education industry. Walden This segment includes the operations of Walden, which offers degree and certificate programs, including those in nursing, education, counseling, business, information technology, psychology, public health, social work and human services, public administration and public policy, and criminal justice. Medical and Veterinary This segment includes the operations of AUC, RUSM, and RUSVM, collectively referred to as the medical and veterinary schools, which offers degree and certificate programs in the medical and veterinary postsecondary education industry. Chamberlain Chamberlain was founded in 1889 as Deaconess College of Nursing and acquired by Adtalem in 2005. In May 2017, Chamberlain College of Nursing broadened its reach in healthcare education through the establishment of Chamberlain University and now offers its programs through its College of Nursing and College of Health Professions. Chamberlains nursing degree offerings include a three-year onsite and online pre-licensure Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree, an online post-licensure BSN degree completion option for Registered Nurses (RN-BSN), an online Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree, including Nurse Practitioner tracks and other specialties, and the online Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree. Through its College of Health Professions, Chamberlain offers an online Master of Public Health (MPH) degree program, an online Master of Social Work (MSW) degree program, and an onsite Master of Physician Assistant Studies (MPAS) degree program. Chamberlain provides an educational experience distinguished by a high level of care for students, academic excellence, and integrity delivered through its 23 campuses and online. Chamberlain is committed to graduating health professionals who are empowered to transform healthcare delivery. Chamberlains pre-licensure BSN program enables students to complete their degree in three years of full-time study as opposed to the typical four-year BSN program with summer breaks. Beginning in September 2019, Chamberlain began offering an evening/weekend BSN option at select campuses. In September 2020, Chamberlain launched its online BSN option that offers a blend of flexibility, interactivity, and experiential learning. Students who already have passed their National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX) exam and achieved RN designation through a diploma or associate degree can complete their BSN degree online through Chamberlains RN-BSN completion option in three semesters of full-time study, although most students enroll part-time while they continue working as nurses. The online MSN degree program offers five non-direct-care specialty tracks: Nurse Educator, Nurse Executive, Nursing Informatics, Population Health, and Healthcare Policy. The accelerated MSN program offers a Clinical Nurse Leadership concentration. The accelerated RN-MSN program offers associate or diploma-prepared RNs an opportunity to earn an MSN versus a BSN with the option of completing the Advanced Generalist concentration in one year of full-time study and the Clinical Nurse Leadership concentration in one and a half years of full-time study. Chamberlain also offers four direct-care nurse practitioner tracks: Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP), Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner (AGACNP), Adult-Gerontology Primary Care Nurse Practitioner (AGPCNP), and Psychiatric-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner (PMHNP). The FNP, AGACNP, AGPCNP, and PMHNP, programs are designed to be completed in two and a half years of part-time study. 2 Table of Contents The online DNP degree program is based on the eight essentials of doctoral education outlined by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN). The program can be completed in five to six semesters of study. Chamberlains College of Health Professions MPH degree program focuses on preparing students through interdisciplinary coursework to become public health practitioners serving communities and populations to promote healthy communities and to work to address health problems and health-related issues such as disease, poverty, and violence. The MSW degree program prepares students for generalist or specialized practice and offers three tracks, including Crisis and Response Interventions, Trauma, and Medical Social Work. The program offers both a traditional and advanced standing option. The advanced standing option is for students who have completed a baccalaureate degree in social work. The MPAS degree program prepares students for the practice of general medicine as Physician Assistants in collaboration with a licensed physician and healthcare team and is designed to be completed in two years. Student Admissions and Admissions Standards Pre-Licensure BSN Program The Chamberlain undergraduate pre-licensure admission process comprises two phases: Academic Eligibility and Clinical Clearance. Applicants must complete both to be eligible for admission. Determining Academic Eligibility is the role of the Chamberlain BSN Unified Admission Committee. The committee reviews applicants using a weighted evaluation system that considers several factors which may include previous coursework, grade point average, ACT/SAT scores and Health Education Systems, Inc. (HESI) Admission Assessment (A2) scores. All applicants deemed academically eligible by the committee must then initiate the Clinical Clearance phase which includes drug, background, and fingerprint screenings, and clear all screenings within 120 days of the session start date. Applicants who enroll in the original session applied for may be granted full acceptance by signing a self-attestation and disclosure indicating their ability to clear all screenings within 120 days of the session start date. Chamberlain enrolls students in its pre-licensure program at least three times per year, during the January, May, and September sessions and select campuses may offer additional opportunities to start. RN-BSN Option Admission to the RN-BSN option requires a nursing diploma or Associate Degree in Nursing from an accredited institution, a minimum grade point average of 2.0, and a current, active, unrestricted RN license in the U.S. or other jurisdiction that is an associate member of the National Council of State Boards of Nursing (NCSBN). Chamberlain enrolls students in its RN-BSN program six times per year, during the January, March, May, July, September, and November sessions. Graduate Programs To enroll in graduate programs, students must have the requisite undergraduate academic degree from an accredited institution and a specified minimum grade point average. Applicants to some programs are also required to provide additional materials and information such as recommendation letters or background checks and/or interview with and be approved by faculty. Chamberlain enrolls students in its graduate nursing, MPH, and MSW programs six times per year, during the January, March, May, July, September, and November sessions. Chamberlain enrolls students in its graduate MPAS program once a year in the September session. Walden For more than 50 years, Walden has provided an engaging learning experience for working professionals. Walden seeks to empower students to use their new knowledge to think creatively about problem-solving to improve society. Founded in 1970 and first accredited by the Higher Learning Commission (HLC) in 1990, Walden has a strong legacy of providing innovative and alternative degree programs for adult students. Walden has grown to support more than 100 degree and certificate programsincluding programs at the bachelors, masters, and doctoral levelswith over 350 specializations and concentrations. 3 Table of Contents In addition, Walden has rich experience in delivering innovative accelerated programs through distance delivery. Walden also has experience in delivering accelerated course-based programs where students can customize modalities to speed their time to completion and degree completion programs (for example, the RN-BSN). Walden currently offers more than 25 programs/specializations and one certificate in a direct assessment competency-based education format through its Tempo Learning modality. Through a culture of assessment and continuous improvement, Walden has developed the organization and resources required to deliver a quality academic learning experience to working adults via distance delivery. All Walden academic programs are delivered in an online format. Waldens colleges and programs are structured within two main divisions the Division of Health Care Access and Quality and the Division of Social Support for Healthy Communities. Walden believes this organizational structure supports its mission via a focused effort promoting healthy communities and healthy people, as identified through the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotions national effort in this area known as Healthy People 2030. Student Admissions and Admissions Standards Walden has a long-standing commitment to providing educational opportunities to learners across all degree levels. Waldens programs are enriched by the cultural, economic, and educational backgrounds of its students and instructors. In the admissions process, Walden selects individuals who can benefit from a distributed educational or online learning approach and who will use their Walden education to contribute to their academic or professional communities. For admissions review to take place, applicants must submit an online application for their intended program of study and an official transcript with a qualifying admitting degree from a U.S. school accredited by a regional, professional/specialized, or national accrediting organization recognized by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation or the U.S. Department of Education (ED), or from an appropriately accredited non-U.S. institution. Additional materials or requirements to submit may vary depending on the academic program. All applicants to the bachelors program are required to have earned, at a minimum, a recognized high school diploma, high school equivalency certificate, or other state-recognized credential of high school completion. Applicants with degrees and coursework from a non-U.S. institution have their academic record evaluated for comparability to a U.S. degree or coursework by our Global Transcript Evaluation (GTE) service offered by Walden or any credential evaluation service that is a member of the National Association of Credential Evaluation Services (NACES) or member of Association of International Credential Evaluators (AICE). Applicants may be offered conditional admission to Walden with a stipulation for academic performance at the level of a grade point average of 3.0 or higher for masters and doctoral students or a grade point average of 2.0 or higher for undergraduate students, the successful completion of academic progress requirements during the initial term(s) of enrollment, the completion of prerequisites, and/or other stipulations (including receipt of official records). Medical and Veterinary AUC and RUSM AUC,founded in 1978 and acquired by Adtalem in 2011, provides medical education and confers the Doctor of Medicine degree. AUC is located in St. Maarten and has graduated over 7,500 physicians since inception. The mission of AUC is to train tomorrows physicians, whose service to their communities and their patients is enhanced by international learning experiences and an emphasis on social accountability and engagement. RUSM, founded in 1978 and acquired by Adtalem in 2003, provides medical education and confers the Doctor of Medicine degree. RUSM is located in Barbados and has graduated over 15,000 physicians since inception. The mission of RUSM is to deliver an innovative and experiential medical education program in an inclusive environment of scholars that fosters professional growth and leadership and trains students to become ethical, compassionate, and patient-centric physicians who advance healthcare in local and global communities. 4 Table of Contents AUCs and RUSMs programs consist of three academic semesters per year, which begin in January, May, and September, allowing students to begin their basic science instruction at the most convenient time for them. Initially, AUC and RUSM students complete a program of concentrated study of medical sciences after which eligible students sit for U.S. Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE), Step 1, which assesses whether students understand and can apply scientific concepts that are basic to the practice of medicine. Under AUC and RUSM direction, students then complete the remainder of their program by participating in clinical rotations conducted at over 40 affiliated teaching hospitals or medical centers connected with accredited graduate medical education programs in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K. Towards the end of the clinical training and prior to graduation, AUC and RUSM students take USMLE, Step 2 CK (Clinical Knowledge), which assesses ability to apply medical knowledge, skills, and understanding of clinical science essential for the provision of patient care under supervision and includes emphasis on health promotion and disease prevention. AUC and RUSM students use the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) pathways to enter the U.S. residency match. Upon successful completion of their medical degree requirements, students apply for a residency position in their area of specialty through the National Residency Matching Program (NRMP). This process is also known as The Match and utilizes an algorithm to match applicants to programs using the certified rank order lists of the applicants and program directors. Of first-time eligible AUC graduates, 98% and 95% attained residency positions in 2024 and 2025, respectively. Of first-time eligible RUSM graduates, 98% and 96% attained residency positions in 2024 and 2025, respectively. In September 2019, AUC opened its medical education program in the U.K. in partnership with University of Central Lancashire (UCLAN). The program offers students a Post Graduate Diploma in International Medical Sciences from UCLAN, followed by their Doctor of Medicine degree from AUC. Students are eligible to do clinical rotations at AUCs clinical sites, which include hospitals in the U.S., Canada, and the U.K. This program is aimed at preparing students for USMLEs. Medical Education Readiness Program (MERP) is a 15-week medical school preparatory program focused on enhancing the academic foundation of prospective AUC and RUSM students and providing them with the skills they need to be successful in medical school and to achieve their goals of becoming physicians. Upon successful completion of the MERP program, students are guaranteed admission to AUC or RUSM. RUSVM RUSVM, founded in 1982 and acquired by Adtalem in 2003, provides veterinary education and confers the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, as well as Masters of Science and Ph.D. degrees. RUSVM is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA). RUSVM is located in St. Kitts and has graduated nearly 6,000veterinarians since inception. The mission of RUSVM is to provide the best learning environment to prepare students to become members and leaders of the worldwide public and professional healthcare team, advancing human and animal healthOne Healththrough research and knowledge exchange. The RUSVM program is structured to provide a veterinary education that is comparable to educational programs at U.S. veterinary schools. RUSVM students complete a seven-semester, pre-clinical curriculum at the campus in St. Kitts. After completing their pre-clinical curriculum, RUSVM students enter a clinical clerkship under RUSVM direction lasting approximately 45 weeks at clinical affiliates located in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and the U.K. RUSVM offers a one-semester Vet Prep Program designed to enhance the pre-clinical science knowledge and study skills that are critical to success in veterinary school. Student Admissions and Admissions Standards AUC, RUSM, and RUSVM employ regional admissions representatives in locations throughout the U.S. and Canada who provide information to students interested in their respective programs. A successful applicant must have completed the required prerequisite courses and, for AUC and RUSM U.S. students, taken the Medical College Admission Test 5 Table of Contents (MCAT), while RUSVM applicants are strongly encouraged but not required to have completed the Graduate Record Exam (GRE). Candidates for admission must interview with an admissions representative and all admission decisions are made by the admissions committees of the medical and veterinary schools. AUC allows several entrance examinations for its international students. Market Trends and Competition Chamberlain Chamberlain competes in the U.S. nursing education market, which has more than 2,000 programs leading to RN licensure. These include four-year educational institutions, two-year community colleges, and less-than-2-year schools. The market consists of two distinct segments: pre-licensure nursing programs that prepare students to take the NCLEX-RN licensure exam and post-licensure nursing programs that allow existing RNs to advance their education. In the pre-licensure nursing market, capacity limitations and restricted new student enrollment are common among traditional four-year educational institutions and community colleges. Chamberlain has 23 campuses located in 15 states and an online BSN program offered in 36 states. In Fall 2024, according to data obtained from the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN), Chamberlain had the largest pre-licensure program in the U.S. based on total enrollments. In post-licensure nursing education, there are more than 700 institutions offering RN-BSN programs and more than 600 institutions offering MSN programs. Chamberlains RN-BSN degree completion option has received three certifications from Quality Matters, an independent global organization leading quality assurance in online teaching and learning environments. Chamberlain has earned the Online Learning Support, Online Teaching Support, and Online Learner Success certifications. In Fall 2024, according to AACN data, Chamberlain had the largest BSN, MSN, FNP, and DNP programs in the U.S based on total enrollments. Walden The market for fully online higher education, in which Walden competes, remains a competitive and growing space. As a comprehensive university offering degrees at the bachelors, masters and doctoral level, in addition to certificates and a school of lifelong learning, the competition varies depending on the degree level and the discipline. While Waldens target market of working professionals 25 years and older was once underserved, it now has a variety of options to meet the growing need for higher education. Walden has degree programs in nursing, education, counseling, business, information technology, psychology, public health, social work and human services, public administration and public policy, and criminal justice. Walden competes both with other comprehensive universities and also more narrowly focused schools, which may only offer a few degree programs. Given the growing and ever-changing market, Walden competes with a wide variety of higher education institutions as well as other education providers. Walden competes with traditional public and private non-profit institutions and for-profit schools. As more campus-based institutions offer online programs, the competition for online higher education has been growing. Typically, public universities charge lower tuition compared with Walden due to state subsidies, government grants, and access to other financial resources. On the other hand, tuition at private non-profit institutions is higher than the average tuition rates at Walden. Walden competes with other educational institutions principally based on price, quality of education, reputation, learning modality, educational programs, and student services. Walden has over 50 years of experience offering high quality distance education. Walden remains a leader in many areas and is one of the leading doctoral degree conferrers in nursing, public health, public policy, business/management, education, and psychology and one of the leading conferrers of masters degrees in nursing, psychology, social work, human services, education, and counseling. 6 Table of Contents Medical and Veterinary AUC and RUSM compete with U.S. schools of medicine, U.S. colleges of osteopathic medicine, and Caribbean medical schools as well as with international medical schools recruiting U.S. students who may be eligible to receive funding from ED Title IV programs. RUSVM competes with U.S.-based and international AVMA accredited schools. There has been some recent expansion in the U.S. medical education and veterinary education enrollment capacities because of the growing supply/demand imbalance for medical doctors and veterinarians. Despite this expansion, management believes the imbalance will continue to spur demand for medical and veterinary education. Accreditation and Other Regulatory Approvals Educational institutions and their individual programs are awarded accreditation by achieving a level of quality that entitles them to the confidence of the educational community and the public they serve. Accredited institutions are subject to periodic review by accrediting bodies to ensure continued high performance and institutional and program improvement and integrity, and to confirm that accreditation requirements continue to be satisfied. Chamberlain Chamberlain is institutionally accredited by the HLC, an institutional accreditation agency recognized by ED. In addition to institutional accreditation, Chamberlain has also obtained programmatic accreditation for specific programs. BSN, MSN, DNP, and post-graduate Advanced Practice Registered Nurses (APRN) certificate programs are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). Chamberlains MPH program is accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health (CEPH). Chamberlains MSW program is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education (CSWE)s Commission on Accreditation. The Accreditation Review Commission on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC-PA) has granted Accreditation-Provisional status to the MPAS program. Accreditation-Provisional is an accreditation status granted when the plans and resource allocation, if fully implemented as planned, of a proposed program that has not yet enrolled students appear to demonstrate the programs ability to meet the ARC-PA Standards or when a program holding Accreditation-Provisional status appears to demonstrate continued progress in complying with the Standards as it prepares for the graduation of the first class (cohort) of students. Accreditation-Provisional does not ensure any subsequent accreditation status. It is limited to no more than five years from matriculation of the first class. Additionally, Chamberlain is an accredited provider of nursing continuing professional development credits by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. Walden Walden is also institutionally accredited by the HLC. In addition to its institutional accreditation, a number of Waldens programs have obtained programmatic accreditation. The BS in Information Technology program is accredited by the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology. A number of business programs (BS in Business Administration, Master of Business Administration, MS in Finance, Doctor of Business Administration, and Ph.D. in Management) are accredited by the Accreditation Council for Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP). The BS and MS in Accounting programs are accredited by ACBSPs Separate Accounting Accreditation. The BSN, MSN, Post-Masters APRN certificates, and DNP programs are accredited by CCNE. The MS in Addiction Counseling, MS in School Counseling, MS in Clinical Mental Health Counseling, MS in Marriage, Couple, and Family Counseling, and Ph.D. in Counselor Education and Supervision programs are accredited by the Council for Accreditation of Counseling and Related Education Programs. Waldens initial teacher preparation programs, BS in Elementary Education and Master of Arts in Teaching with a specialization in Special Education, and advanced educator preparation programs, education specialist in Educational Leadership and Administration and MS in Education with a specialization in Educational Leadership and Administration, in the Richard W. Riley College of Education and Human Sciences are accredited by the Council for the Accreditation of Educator Preparation. The MPH and Doctor of Public Health programs are accredited by the CEPH. The Bachelor of Social Work and MSW programs are accredited by the CSWE. Additionally, Walden is an accredited provider of continuing education credits by the American Nurses Credentialing Center. 7 Table of Contents Medical and Veterinary The Government of St. Maarten authorizes AUC to confer the Doctor of Medicine degree. AUC is accredited by the Accreditation Commission on Colleges of Medicine (ACCM). The ACCM is an international medical school accrediting organization for countries that do not have a national medical school accreditation body. The U.S. Department of Education National Committee on Foreign Medical Education and Accreditation (NCFMEA) has affirmed that the ACCM has established and enforces standards of educational accreditation that are comparable to those promulgated by the U.S. Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME). In addition, AUC is authorized to place students in clinical rotations in the majority of U.S. states, including California, Florida, and New York, where robust processes are in place to evaluate and approve an international medical schools programs. AUC students can join residency training programs in all 50 states. AUC has also been deemed acceptable by the Graduate Medical Council (GMC), the accrediting body in the U.K., which allows AUC graduates to apply for residency programs in the U.K. The Government of Barbados authorizes RUSM to confer the Doctor of Medicine degree through a registration process with the Barbados Accreditation Council. RUSMs primary accreditor is Caribbean Accreditation Authority for Education in Medicine and other Health Professions (CAAM-HP). CAAM-HP is authorized to accredit medical programs by the government of Barbados. On July 26, 2018, Barbados authorized RUSM to confer the Doctor of Medicine degree. The NCFMEA has affirmed that CAAM-HP has established and enforces standards of educational accreditation that are comparable to those promulgated by the LCME. In addition, RUSM is authorized to place students in clinical rotations in the majority of U.S. states, including California, Florida, New Jersey, and New York, where robust processes are in place to evaluate and accredit an international medical schools programs. RUSM students can join residency training programs in all 50 states. RUSVM has been recognized by the government of the Federation of St. Christopher and Nevis (St. Kitts) and is chartered to confer the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree. The Doctor of Veterinary Medicine degree is accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education (AVMA COE). RUSVM has affiliations with many AVMA-accredited U.S. and international colleges of veterinary medicine so that RUSVM students can complete their final three clinical semesters of study in the U.S. or abroad. RUSVM has received accreditation for its Postgraduate Studies program from the St. Christopher & Nevis Accreditation Board. The Postgraduate Studies program offers MS and Ph.D. degrees in all research areas supported by RUSVM. Areas of emphasis are guided by RUSVM's themed research centers. Financial Aid Like other higher education institutions, Adtalems institutions are dependent upon the timely receipt of federal financial aid funds. All public financial aid programs are subject to political and governmental budgetary considerations. Adtalems institutions and their students participate in a wide range of financial aid programs, including U.S. federal financial aid, state financial aid, Canadian financial aid, private loan programs, tax-favored programs, Adtalem-provided financial assistance, and employer-provided financial assistance. In the U.S., the Higher Education Act (as reauthorized, the HEA) guides the federal governments support of postsecondary education. Changes to financial aid programs that restrict student eligibility or reduce funding levels could have a material adverse effect on Adtalems business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 1A. Risk Factors and Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a discussion of student financial aid related risks. Legislative and Regulatory Requirements Government-funded financial assistance programs are governed by extensive and complex regulations in the U.S. Like any other educational institution, Adtalems institutions administration of these programs is periodically reviewed by regulatory agencies and is subject to audit or investigation by other authorities. Any violation could be the basis for penalties or other disciplinary action, including initiation of a suspension, limitation, or termination proceeding. Our domestic postsecondary institutions are subject to extensive federal and state regulations. The HEA and the related ED regulations govern all higher education institutions participating in Title IV programs and provide for a regulatory triad by mandating specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following: (1) the federal government through ED, (2) the accrediting agencies recognized by ED, and (3) state higher education regulatory bodies. Therefore, to be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, a postsecondary institution must be accredited by an agency recognized by ED, must 8 Table of Contents comply with the HEA and all applicable regulations thereunder, and must be authorized to operate by the appropriate higher education authority in each state in which the institution operates, as applicable. In addition to governance by the regulatory triad, members of the U.S. Congress and federal agencies, including ED, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), review the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. We expect that this regulatory environment will continue for the foreseeable future. Changes in or new interpretations of applicable laws, rules, or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our eligibility or cost to participate in Title IV programs, to meet accreditation standards or comply with state authorization requirements. The failure to maintain or renew any required regulatory approvals, accreditation, or state authorizations could have a material adverse effect on us. ED regulations regarding financial responsibility provide that, if any one of our Title IV participating institutions (Title IV institutions) is unable to pay its obligations under its program participation agreement (PPA) as a result of operational issues and/or an enforcement action, our other Title IV institutions, regardless of their compliance with applicable laws and regulations, would not be able to maintain their Title IV eligibility without assisting in the repayment of the non-compliant institutions Title IV obligations. As a result, even though Adtalems Title IV institutions are operated through independent entities, an enforcement action against one of our institutions could also have a material adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows of Adtalems other Title IV institutions and Adtalem as a whole and could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on the ability of Adtalems other Title IV institutions and Adtalem as a whole to operate. For further information, see A bankruptcy filing by us or by any of our Title IV institutions, or a closure of one of our Title IV institutions, would lead to an immediate loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs under subsection Risks Related to Adtalems Regulated Industry in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Financial Responsibility Institutions must pass an ED financial responsibility test, also known as a composite score, to maintain eligibility to participate in Title IV aid programs. For Adtalems institutions, this test is calculated at the consolidated Adtalem level. Applying various financial elements from annual audited financial statements, the score is a composite of three ratios: an equity ratio that measures the institutions capital resources; a primary reserve ratio that measures an institutions ability to fund its operations from current resources; and a net income ratio that measures an institutions ability to operate profitably. A score greater than or equal to 1.5 indicates the institution is considered financially responsible. A score less than 1.5 but greater than or equal to 1.0 is considered financially responsible but requires additional oversight. For example, an institution with a score in this range is subject to heightened cash monitoring and other participation requirements. An institution with a score of less than 1.0 is not considered financially responsible but may continue to participate in the Title IV programs under provisional certification. In addition, this lower score typically requires that the institution be subject to heightened cash monitoring requirements and post a letter of credit (equal to a minimum of 10% of the Title IV aid it received in the institution's most recent fiscal year). Prior to fiscal year 2022, Adtalems composite score was greater than 1.5. However, on September 25, 2023, ED notified Adtalem that its fiscal year 2022 composite score had declined to 0.2. As previously disclosed, this was expected due to the acquisition of Walden and other transactions. ED advised that Adtalems five institutions will be permitted to continue to participate in Title IV under provisional certifications with heightened cash monitoring and continued reporting. Management does not believe these conditions will have a material adverse effect on Adtalems operations. At EDs request, Adtalem maintains two surety-backed letters of credit totaling $179.0 million representing 10% of the consolidated Title IV funds Adtalems institutions received during fiscal year 2024. The financial responsibility rules include other mandatory or discretionary triggers that could require an institution to post a letter of credit. ED recently amended the financial responsibility regulation and the changes took effect July 1, 2024. The changes include additional triggers which could require additional letters of credit. Program Participation Agreement The HEA specifies the manner in which ED reviews institutions for eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs. Every educational institution participating in Title IV programs must be certified to participate through a 9 Table of Contents PPA and certification must be periodically renewed. Such recertification generally is required every six years, but may be required earlier, including when an institution undergoes a change in control. Institutions that violate certain ED Title IV regulations may lose eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or may only continue participation under provisional certification. ED may place an institution on provisional certification status if it finds that the institution does not fully satisfy all of the eligibility and certification standards and in certain other circumstances, such as when an institution is certified for the first time or undergoes a change in control. During the period of provisional certification, the institution must comply with any additional conditions included in the institutions PPA. In addition, ED may more closely review an institution that is provisionally certified if it applies for recertification or approval to open a new location, add an educational program, acquire another institution, or make any other significant change. Students attending provisionally certified institutions remain eligible to receive Title IV program funds. Provisional certification status also carries fewer due process protections than full certification. If ED determines that a provisionally certified institution is unable to meet its responsibilities under its PPA, it may seek to revoke the institutions certification to participate in Title IV programs without advance notice or opportunity for the institution to challenge the action. Chamberlain was most recently recertified and issued an unrestricted PPA in September 2020, with a reapplication date of June 30, 2024. The lengthy PPA recertification process is such that ED allows unhampered continued access to Title IV funding after PPA expiration, so long as materially complete applications are submitted at least 90 days in advance of expiration. A complete application for Chamberlains PPA recertification has been timely submitted to ED. ED approved Waldens change in ownership application and issued Walden a provisional PPA through June 30, 2025, with its application for PPA recertification due March 31, 2025. A complete application for Waldens PPA recertification has been timely submitted to ED. ED provisionally recertified AUC and RUSMs Title IV PPAs through March 31, 2025. Complete applications for AUC and RUSMs PPA recertification have been timely submitted to ED. ED has provisionally recertified RUSVMs Title IV PPA through March 31, 2027. The provisional nature of the PPAs stemmed from Adtalems composite score declining and failing to meet EDs standards of financial responsibility as described above. Walden, AUC, RUSM, and RUSVMs provisional PPAs included financial requirements, such as letter of credit, heightened cash monitoring, and additional reporting. We do not believe these requirements will have a material effect on Adtalems financial position or results of operations. With the approval of its change in ownership, Walden has the ability to request ED approval for new programs. As of June 30, 2025, Adtalem had $179.0 million of letters of credit outstanding in favor of ED. See Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements in Note 13 Debt to the Consolidated Financial Statements in