Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for additional information, including the effects of COVID-19 on our operations. Chamberlain : Approximately 30% of Chamberlains students are based at campus locations and pursuing their BSN degree; at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, all campus-based students transitioned to online learning for didactic and select clinical experiences. The remaining 70% of Chamberlains students are enrolled in online programs that may or may not have clinical components and those programs continued to successfully operate. For the September 2020 session, students and employees returned to several Chamberlain campuses for limited onsite instruction. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or increased costs at Chamberlain in fiscal year 2021 and 2020. The extent of the impact in fiscal year 2022 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19, the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines, and whether any pandemic surge affects healthcare facilities ability to continue to provide clinical experiences, most of which have resumed. Chamberlain has clinical partnerships with healthcare facilities across the U.S., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. AUC and RUSM : Medical students enrolled in the basic science portion of their program transitioned to online learning at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak. Many students left St. Maarten and Barbados to continue their studies remotely from other locations. AUC and RUSM were able to provide remote learning and have students remain eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the U.S. Secretary of Education that was included in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) signed into law in March 2020. The waiver was dependent upon the host countrys coronavirus state of emergency declaration. The nation of St. Maarten lifted their declaration in June 2020, and as a result, AUCs ability to offer distance education ended after the September 2020 semester, requiring all AUC students to return to St. Maarten for basic science instruction effective January 2021. A limited number of RUSM students began returning to Barbados in January and May 2021 with a full return expected for the September 2021 semester. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (the Appropriations Act) was signed into law in December 2020, and corrected technical errors in the CARES Act, which clarified the authority to operate via distance learning due to a declaration of an emergency in an applicable country or a qualifying emergency in the U.S. This section also extends these flexibilities through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever is later. The Appropriations Act provides Adtalems foreign institutions the ability to continue distance education without disruption to their students Title IV federal financial aid. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science programs at the medical schools in fiscal year 2021 and 2020, except with respect to housing operations, as discussed below. COVID-19 will likely have minimal impact on basic science program revenue in fiscal 8 Table of Contents year 2022, except with respect to housing operations, unless students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. The extent of the impact in fiscal year 2022 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations in the U.S. and the U.K. Clinical rotations for all students were temporarily suspended in March 2020; however, some students were able to participate in online clinical elective courses during this transition period and beyond. The COVID-19 surge experienced during the winter in fiscal year 2021 across the U.S. caused many partner hospitals to again reduce the hours available for clinical experiences. As a result, although many students were able to resume their clinical education during the second quarter of fiscal year 2021, not being able to offer a full clinical program reduced revenue and operating income of AUC and RUSM in fiscal year 2021 and 2020. As of June 2021, all clinical partners of AUC and RUSM have resumed their clinical programs; however, should future surges in COVID-19 again restrict the number of clinical hours available to our students, we could experience negative effects on revenue and operating income in fiscal year 2022 and beyond. Adtalem has clinical partnerships with hospitals across the U.S. and the U.K., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. In addition to the loss of clinical revenue and operating income at AUC and RUSM, housing and student transportation revenue and operating income losses in fiscal year 2021 and 2020 were also impacted due to students leaving the St. Maarten and Barbados campuses to continue basic science studies remotely. RUSVM : All basic science veterinary students transitioned to online learning beginning in March 2020. Many students left St. Kitts in March 2020 to continue their studies remotely from other locations. As of May 2021, all basic science students have returned to St. Kitts where lectures continue to be delivered remotely and labs are in-person. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science program in fiscal year 2021 and 2020. We do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 on the basic science program in fiscal year 2022, unless students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. RUSVM continues to be able to provide remote learning during the pandemic and have students remain eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the CARES Act and the Appropriations Act through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever is later, as described above. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations at select universities in the U.S., Canada, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand, and the U.K. A few universities initially suspended onsite clinical experiences and transitioned students to online education. All universities have since resumed onsite clinical courses. The initial suspensions did not significantly reduce revenue or operating income in fiscal year 2021 and 2020. While we do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 at RUSVM, the extent of the impact on clinical experiences in fiscal year 2022 and beyond will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and the efficacy and distribution of the vaccines. Financial Services : Most Financial Services content, including exam preparation, certification training, continuing education, and subscriptions is delivered online. Any classroom-based learning has been moved to online. No significant COVID-19 related cost increases were realized in Financial Services in fiscal year 2021 and 2020. COVID-19 did result in revenue losses and operating income losses in fiscal year 2021 and 2020, primarily driven by the cancellation of ACAMS live conferences. Fiscal year 2020 lost revenue and operating income was also impacted at Becker from Prometric, a global leader in the provision of technology-enabled testing and assessment solutions, closing CPA testing sites, along with a number of CPA firms either delaying start dates for, or rescinding altogether, offers of employment to recent college graduates. This dampened a key driver of demand in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2020, which is normally a time of robust demand because of the influx of new college graduates looking to begin their CPA exam preparation. ACAMS live conference revenue is not expected to return to pre-pandemic levels until COVID-19 restrictions are fully lifted and customer apprehension dissipates. COVID-19 is expected to negatively impact Financial Services revenue and operating income in fiscal year 2022 and beyond driven by lower ACAMS live conference revenue and possible weakness in demand at Becker, primarily with CPA firm customers. Virtual conferences were conducted in late fiscal year 2020 and throughout fiscal year 2021, and additional conference revenue could be replaced with virtual or hybrid events in the future; however virtual conferences are unlikely to generate the same level of revenue and operating income as live conferences. Loss of conference revenue is likely in fiscal year 2022 as ACAMS has only recently been able to offer a limited number of live conferences, mostly overseas. Large live and hybrid conferences in the U.S. are not expected to resume until possibly September 2021, and management expects any such events will not initially generate pre-pandemic levels of revenue. Management believes that other than the ACAMS conferences, longer-term operating results in the Financial Services segment will not be significantly affected by COVID-19 unless there are major employment losses with accounting professionals and recent accounting graduates, or in the banking and mortgage sectors. This is not known and cannot be 9 Table of Contents predicted at this time. At Becker, CPA, testing sites are operating with available capacity; however, management believes hiring at CPA firms has not yet fully recovered. Administrative Operations : Most institution and home office administrative operations continue to principally be performed remotely. This includes operations in both the U.S. and all foreign locations. These remote work arrangements have not adversely affected Adtalems ability to maintain operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure