Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In this Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Adtalem Global Education Inc., together with its subsidiaries, is collectively referred to as Adtalem, we, our, us, or similar references. Discussions within this MD&A may contain forward-looking statements. See the Forward-Looking Statements section for details about the uncertainties that could cause our actual results to be materially different than those expressed in our forward-looking statements. Throughout this MD&A, we sometimes use information derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto but not presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Certain of these items are considered non-GAAP financial measures under the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Reconciliations section for the reasons we use these non-GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Certain items presented in tables may not sum due to rounding. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying numbers in thousands. Discussions throughout this MD&A are based on continuing operations unless otherwise noted. The MD&A should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto. Available Information We use our website (www.adtalem.com) as routine channels of distribution of company information, including press releases, presentations, and supplemental information, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor our website in addition to following press releases, SEC filings, and public conference calls, and webcasts. Investors and others can 37 Table of Contents receive notifications of new information posted on our investor relations website in real time by signing up for email alerts. You may also access our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as well as other reports relating to us that are filed with or furnished to the SEC, free of charge in the investor relations section of our website as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The SEC also maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The content of the websites mentioned above is not incorporated into and should not be considered a part of this report. Segments As of September 30, 2019, Adtalem eliminated its Business and Law reportable segment when Adtalem Education of Brazil (Adtalem Brazil) was classified as discontinued operations and assets held for sale. In addition to the sale of Adtalem Brazil, which was completed on April 24, 2020, during the second quarter of fiscal year 2019, Adtalem divested Carrington College (Carrington) and DeVry University. In accordance with GAAP, we have classified the Adtalem Brazil, Carrington, and DeVry University entities as Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations in all periods presented as applicable. As a result, all financial results, disclosures, and discussions of continuing operations in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q exclude Adtalem Brazil, Carrington, and DeVry University operations, unless otherwise noted. See Note 3 Discontinued Operations and Assets Held for Sale to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discontinued operations information. We present two reportable segments as follows: Medical and Healthcare Offers degree and non-degree programs in the medical and healthcare postsecondary education industry. This segment includes the operations of Chamberlain University (Chamberlain), American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC), Ross University School of Medicine (RUSM), and Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine (RUSVM). AUC, RUSM, and RUSVM are collectively referred to as the medical and veterinary schools. Financial Services Offers test preparation, certifications, conferences, seminars, memberships, and subscriptions to business professionals in the areas of accounting, anti-money laundering, banking, and mortgage lending. This segment includes the operations of the Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists (ACAMS), Becker Professional Education (Becker), OnCourse Learning (OCL), and EduPristine. Home Office and Other includes activities not allocated to a reportable segment. Financial and descriptive information about Adtalems reportable segments is presented in Note 19 Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. On September 11, 2020, Adtalem entered into a Membership Interest Purchase Agreement (the Agreement) with Laureate Education, Inc., a Delaware public benefit corporation (Seller), pursuant to which Adtalem has agreed to acquire from Seller all of the issued and outstanding equity interest in Walden e-Learning, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (e-Learning), and its subsidiary, Walden University, LLC, a Florida limited liability company (together with e-Learning, Walden), in exchange for a purchase price of $1.48 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments set forth in the Agreement (the Acquisition). Walden owns and operates Walden University, an online for-profit university headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota. The Board of Directors of Adtalem (the Board) has unanimously approved the Acquisition. The closing of the Acquisition is expected to occur in mid-calendar year 2021 and is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approval by the U.S. Department of Education and the Higher Learning Commission (the HLC) and required antitrust approvals. Also on September 11, 2020, to provide future funding for the Acquisition, Adtalem entered into a commitment letter (the Commitment Letter) with Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. (MSSF), Barclays Bank PLC (Barclays), Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch (CS) and Credit Suisse Loan Funding LLC (CSLF and, together with CS and their respective affiliates, Credit Suisse), and MUFG Bank, Ltd. (together with MSSF, Barclays and Credit Suisse, the Commitment Parties), pursuant to which the Commitment Parties committed to provide to Adtalem (i)(A) a senior secured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $1 billion (the Term Facility) and (B) a senior secured revolving loan facility in an aggregate commitment amount of $400 million (the Revolving Facility) and (ii) to the extent 38 Table of Contents one or more series of senior secured notes pursuant to a Rule 144A offering or other private placement in an aggregate principal amount of $650 million are not issued (in escrow or otherwise) prior to the consummation of the Acquisition, a senior secured bridge term loan credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of up to $650 million (together with the Term Facility and the Revolving Facility, the Facilities). The proceeds of the Facilities will be used, among other things, to finance the Acquisition, refinance Adtalems existing credit agreement, pay fees and expenses related to the Acquisition, and in the case of the Revolving Facility, to finance ongoing working capital and general corporate purposes. The commitments under the Commitment Letter are subject to customary closing conditions. The risks and uncertainties related to the Acquisition are described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. Refer to the Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 16, 2020 for additional information on the Acquisition and Commitment Letter. On September 16, 2020, Laureate Education, Inc. (Laureate) advised Adtalem that Walden University had received a letter from the U.S. Department of Justice (the DOJ) indicating that the DOJ, along with several other government agencies, is conducting an investigation into allegations that Walden University may have violated the federal False Claims Act by misrepresenting its compliance with provisions of its Program Participation Agreement with the U.S. Department of Education relating, generally, to potential false representations to the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education and false advertising to students about (1) the content and cost of Waldens Masters of Science in Nursing program, or (2) the availability of clinical site placements required for mandatory practicum courses for such program (collectively, the DOJ Investigation). Subsequently, Walden disclosed the DOJ Investigation to the HLC. On October 13, 2020, Laureate advised Adtalem that Walden University had received a letter from the HLC notifying Walden University that the HLC seeks to assign a public Governmental Investigation designation to Walden University. On November 9, 2020, the HLC assigned the designation of Under Governmental Investigation to Walden University, which will remain in place until the President of the HLC determines the institution has resolved the issues that led to the designation. Pursuant to its access rights under the terms of the Agreement, Adtalem is continuing to conduct its own investigation of the matters addressed in the DOJ and HLC correspondence, including reviewing relevant documents and other information and interviewing relevant Laureate and/or Walden University personnel. As a condition to closing the Acquisition, certain designated regulatory authorities, including the HLC, must consent to the Acquisition. Pursuant to Section 5.05(a) of the Agreement, the parties are required to cooperate and use reasonable best efforts to obtain those designated pre-closing consents from, among others, the HLC. Consistent with the HLCs policies and procedures, a Governmental Investigation designation by the HLC could delay or prevent the HLCs approval of a substantive change application to approve the proposed Acquisition. We continue to evaluate these regulatory developments and the potential impact, if any, on our planned Acquisition. Second Quarter Highlights Financial and operational highlights for the second quarter of fiscal year 2021 include: Adtalem revenue grew $16.9 million, or 6.4%, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2021 compared to the year-ago quarter. Both the Medical and Healthcare and Financial Services segments saw increased revenue. Net income attributable to Adtalem of $23.3 million increased $17.8 million in the second quarter of fiscal year 2021 compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase was primarily driven by the year-ago quarter containing an unrealized loss of $28.0 million on the deal-contingent foreign currency hedge arrangement entered into in connection with the sale of Adtalem Brazil completed on April 24, 2020 to economically hedge the Brazilian Real denominated purchase price through mitigation of the currency exchange rate risk. In addition, the increase was driven by the $16.9 million revenue increase and cost containment measures across all institutions and Adtalems home office, partially offset by $11.1 million in business acquisition and integration expense recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2021 and a $12.6 million decrease in net income from discontinued operations. Net income from continuing operations attributable to Adtalem excluding special items of $40.5 million increased $9.6 million, or 31.1%, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2021 compared to the year-ago quarter. This increase was principally attributable to revenue growth at Chamberlain and OCL and cost containment measures across all institutions and Adtalems home office. For the November 2020 session, new and total student enrollment at Chamberlain increased 8.1% and 10.2%, respectively, compared to the same session last year. Chamberlain continues to invest in its programs, student services, and campus locations. 39 Table of Contents ACAMS memberships have increased to more than 82,000 as of December 31, 2020 compared to more than 77,000 as of December 31, 2019. OCL experienced strong revenue growth in its mortgage loan officer training and continuing education business, attributable to increased demand in the current strong mortgage market. Overview of the Impact of COVID-19 On March 11, 2020, the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak was declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. COVID-19 has had tragic consequences across the globe and is altering business and consumer activity across many industries. Management has initiated several changes to the operations of our institutions and administrative functions in order to protect the health of Adtalem employees, students, and customers and to mitigate the financial effects of COVID-19 and its resultant economic slowdown. We will continue to evaluate, and if appropriate, adopt other measures in the future required for the ongoing safety of our students, customers, and employees. Results of Operations COVID-19 resulted in estimated revenue losses of approximately $7 million and $22 million, operating income losses of approximately $7 million and $14 million, and loss of earnings per share of approximately $0.11 and $0.22 in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2021, respectively. Management anticipates further negative COVID-19 effects to consolidated revenue, operating income, net income, and earnings per share further into fiscal year 2021 or as long as social distancing and other measures established to combat COVID-19 continue. We also expect higher variable expenses associated with bringing students back to campus and additional costs with providing a safe environment in the context of COVID-19 as we begin to move back to in-person instruction across both segments. COVID-19 effects on the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2021 results of operations of the Adtalem institutions are described below. Chamberlain : Approximately 30% of Chamberlains students are based at campus locations and pursuing their Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree; at the onset of the COVID-19 outbreak, all campus-based students transitioned to online learning for didactic and select clinical experiences. The remaining 70% of Chamberlains students are enrolled in online programs that may or may not have clinical components and those programs are continuing to successfully operate. For the September 2020 session, students and employees returned to several Chamberlain campuses for limited onsite instruction. Plans are being developed for additional re-opening activities for the remaining sessions in fiscal year 2021. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or cost increases at Chamberlain in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2021. The extent of the impact further into fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19 and whether any pandemic surge affects healthcare facilities ability to continue to provide clinical experiences, most of which have resumed as of September 2020. Chamberlain has clinical partnerships with healthcare facilities across the U.S., minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. The Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (the Appropriations Act) became law on December 27, 2020. The Appropriations Act includes the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2021, negotiated in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to support individuals and businesses in the form of loans, grants, and tax changes, among other types of relief. In January 2021, Chamberlain was awarded the Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund grant under the Appropriations Act of approximately $7.1 million. Management has determined that 100% of these funds will be redistributed to eligible students who demonstrate exceptional need. As a result, these funds will be recorded as zero net revenue in the third quarter of fiscal year 2021 and, thus, will not have a significant effect on the results of operations, financial position, or cash flows of Adtalem in fiscal year 2021. AUC and RUSM : Medical students enrolled in the basic science portion of their program transitioned to online learning at the onset of the pandemic. Many students left St. Maarten and Barbados to continue their studies remotely from other locations. AUC and RUSM were able to provide remote learning and have students remain eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the U.S. Secretary of Education that was included in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the CARES Act) signed into law in March 2020. The waiver was dependent upon the host countrys coronavirus state of emergency declaration. The nation of St. Maarten lifted their declaration in June 2020, and as a result, AUCs ability to offer distance education ended after the September 2020 semester, requiring 40 Table of Contents all AUC students to return to St. Maarten for basic science instruction effective January 2021. The Appropriations Act signed into law in December 2020 corrected technical errors in the CARES Act and clarifies the authority to operate via distance learning due to a declaration of an emergency in an applicable country or a qualifying emergency in the U.S. This section also extends these flexibilities through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever is later. The Appropriations Act provides Adtalems foreign institutions the ability to continue distance education without disruption to their students Title IV federal financial aid. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or increased costs within the basic science programs at the medical schools in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2021, except with respect to housing operations, as discussed below. COVID-19 will likely have minimal impact on the basic science program revenue in fiscal year 2021, except with respect to housing operations, unless students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty,. The extent of the impact further into fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations in the U.S. (and in the U.K.). Clinical rotations for all students were temporarily suspended in March 2020; however, some students were able to participate in online clinical elective courses during this transition period and beyond. As of November 2020, almost all of the clinical partners of AUC and RUSM have resumed their clinical programs. Although many students were able to resume their clinical education during the second quarter of fiscal year 2021, management estimates that not being able to offer a full clinical program reduced combined revenue of AUC and RUSM by approximately $3 million and $7 million and operating income by approximately $2 million and $4 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2021, respectively. The lower number of clinical hours available due to COVID-19 will likely have a negative effect on revenue and operating income into the third quarter of fiscal year 2021 and for as long as the pandemic affects hospitals ability to provide clinical experiences. Adtalem has clinical partnerships with hospitals across the U.S. (and in the U.K.), minimizing the risk of suspension of all onsite clinical education experiences. In addition to the loss of clinical revenue and operating income at AUC and RUSM, management estimates that housing and student transportation revenue of approximately $3 million and $8 million and resulting operating income of approximately $3 million and $6 million in the second quarter and first six month of fiscal year 2021, respectively, was also lost due to students moving off of St. Maarten and Barbados to continue basic science studies remotely. RUSVM: All basic science veterinary students transitioned to online learning beginning in March 2020. Many students left St. Kitts in March 2020 to continue their studies remotely from other locations. A portion of students at specific junctures of their basic science education have traveled back to St. Kitts since July 2020 and resumed classroom- based learning for select components of the curriculum. COVID-19 did not result in significant revenue losses or cost increases within the basic science program in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2021. We do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 on the basic science program in fiscal year 2021, unless students choose to not continue or start their studies during this time of uncertainty. RUSVM continues to be able to provide remote learning during the pandemic and have students remain eligible for U.S. federal financial aid assistance under a waiver provided by the CARES Act and the Appropriations Act through the end of the qualifying emergency or June 30, 2022, whichever is later, as further described above. The extent of the impact on the basic science program further into fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19. Students who have completed their basic science education progress to clinical rotations at select universities in the U.S., Canada, New Zealand, Australia, and Europe. A few universities suspended onsite clinical experiences and transitioned students to online education, while other universities have continued to offer onsite clinical courses. The suspensions did not significantly reduce revenue or operating income in the second quarter or first six months of fiscal year 2021. The extent of the impact on clinical experiences further into fiscal year 2021 will be determined based on the length and severity of the effects of COVID-19, but we do not expect a significant impact from COVID-19 at RUSVM. Financial Services : Most Financial Services content, including exam preparation, certification training, continuing education, and subscriptions is delivered online. Any classroom-based learning has been moved to online. No significant COVID-19 related cost increases were realized in Financial Services in the second quarter or first six months of fiscal year 2021. COVID-19 did result in estimated revenue losses of approximately $1 million and $6 million in the second quarter and first six months of fiscal year 2021, respectively, and operating income losses of $4 million in first six months of fiscal year 2021, primarily driven by the replacement of the Las Vegas live conference with a virtual conference. The effects on operating income in the second quarter of fiscal 2021 were not material. ACAMS live conference revenue will not be realized so long as social distancing and group gathering is limited. COVID-19 is expected to negatively impact Financial Services revenue and operating income further into fiscal year 2021, driven by the loss of ACAMS live conference revenue 41 Table of Contents and possible weakness in demand at Becker, primarily with CPA firm customers. Virtual conferences were conducted in June 2020 and September 2020 and it is possible additional conference revenue could be replaced with virtual events in the future, but loss of conference revenue is likely as ACAMS has canceled all live conferences through May 2021. Virtual conferences are unlikely to generate the same level of revenue and operating income as live conferences. Management believes that other than the ACAMS conferences, longer-term operating results in the Financial Services segment will not be significantly affected by COVID-19 unless there are major employment losses with accounting professionals and recent accounting graduates, or in the banking and mortgage sectors. This is not known and cannot be predicted at this time. At Becker, CPA testing sites began reopening in June 2020 at limited capacity, however, management believes hiring at CPA firms has not yet fully recovered. Administrative Operations : Most institution and home office administrative operations continue to be performed remotely. This includes operations in both the U.S. and all foreign locations. These remote work arrangements have not adversely affected Adtalems ability to maintain operations, financial reporting systems, internal control over financial reporting, or disclosure