Item 7 Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources. The forward-looking statements should be considered in the context of the risk factors referred to above and discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Furthermore, forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Except as required under the federal securities laws or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we are not under any obligation to update any forward-looking informationwhether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. PART I ITEM 1 BUSINESS OVERVIEW OF DEVRY EDUCATION GROUP INC. DeVry Group is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware. DeVry Groups executive offices are located at 3005 Highland Parkway, Downers Grove, Illinois, 60515, and the telephone number is (630) 515-7700. DeVry Group refers to DeVry Education Group Inc. alone or with its subsidiaries, as the context requires. When this report uses the words we, us or our, it refers to DeVry Group and its subsidiaries unless the context otherwise requires. DeVry Group is a global provider of educational services. DeVry Group's purpose is to empower its students to achieve their educational and career goals. DeVry Groups institutions offer a wide array of programs in healthcare, technology, business, accounting, finance and law. DeVry Groups vision is to become a leading global provider of career-oriented educational services. DeVry Group will create value for society and all of its stakeholders by offering superior, responsive educational programs that are supported by exceptional services to its students, and delivered with integrity and accountability. Towards this vision, DeVry Group is proud to play a vital role in expanding access to higher education along with other institutions in the public, independent and private sectors. To attain this vision, DeVry Group will continue to strive to achieve superior student outcomes by providing quality education and student services; grow and diversify into new program areas, levels and geographies; and build quality brands and the infrastructure necessary to compete in an increasingly competitive market. DeVry Group operates three reporting segments. Financial and descriptive information about DeVry Groups operating segments is presented in Note 15: Segment Information, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Unless indicated, or the context requires otherwise, references to years refer to DeVry Groups fiscal years then ended. These segments are highlighted below. Medical and Healthcare DeVry Medical International (DMI) operates three institutions: American University of the Caribbean School of Medicine (AUC) confers the Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree; Ross University School of Medicine (RUSM) confers the M.D. degree; and Ross University School of Veterinary Medicine (RUSVM) confers the Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (D.V.M.) degree. 3 Together, the three schools along with the Medical Education Readiness Program (MERP) and the Veterinary Preparation Program (Vet Prep) had 5,850 students enrolled in the May 2016 semester. AUC was founded in 1978 and acquired by DeVry Group in August 2011. AUC is located in the country of St. Maarten and has graduated over 6,000 physicians now licensed and practicing medicine throughout the world. The mission of AUC is to provide an excellent medical education to qualified students of diverse backgrounds. This is to be accomplished within an atmosphere of academic integrity and scholarship, which fosters the highest standards in professional ethics and competence. RUSM, which was founded in 1978, and acquired by DeVry Group in May 2003, is one of the worlds largest providers of medical education. RUSM is located in the Caribbean country of Dominica with the Internal Medicine Foundation program residing in Miramar, Florida. RUSM has graduated more than 12,000 physicians who practice medicine in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. The mission of RUSM is to prepare highly dedicated students to become effective, successful physicians. RUSM accomplishes this by focusing on imparting the knowledge, skills and values required for its students to establish a successful and satisfying career as a physician. AUCs and RUSMs respective medical education programs are comparable to the educational programs offered at U.S. medical schools. AUCs and RUSMs programs consist of three academic semesters per year beginning in January, May and September which allows students to complete their basic science instruction in less time than they would at a U.S. medical school. The programs prepare students for general medical practice and provide the foundation for postgraduate specialty training, which is primarily received in the U.S. Initially, AUC and RUSM students complete a program of concentrated study of medical sciences in modern classrooms and laboratories at campuses located in St. Maarten and Dominica, respectively. AUCs program runs five semesters and RUSMs runs either four or five-semesters (depending on the designated curriculum track). After students sit for Step 1 of the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination tm (USMLE), which assesses whether medical school students understand and can apply scientific concepts that are basic to the practice of medicine, they complete the remainder of their program by participating in clinical rotations under AUC and RUSM direction, and conducted at approximately 50 affiliated teaching hospitals or medical centers affiliated with accredited medical education programs in the U.S., Canada and the United Kingdom. MERP assists prospective RUSM and AUC students in building the academic foundation they need to be successful in medical school and to achieve their goals of becoming physicians. RUSVM, which was founded in 1982 and acquired by DeVry Group in May 2003, is one of the largest providers of veterinary education. RUSVM is located in the country of St. Kitts and has graduated more than 4,000 veterinarians who practice principally in the U.S. The RUSVM program is structured to provide a veterinary education that is comparable to educational programs at U.S. veterinary schools. RUSVM students complete a seven-semester pre-clinical curriculum at a campus in St. Kitts. After completing their pre-clinical curriculum, RUSVM students enter a clinical clerkship lasting approximately 48 weeks under RUSVM direction at one of more than 20 affiliated U.S. Colleges of Veterinary Medicine as well as international affiliates in Canada, Australia, Ireland, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. The RUSVM Vet Prep Program is designed to enhance the preclinical science knowledge and study skills that are critical to success in veterinary school. It is structured to prepare students for success at RUSVM. Chamberlain College of Nursing (Chamberlain) , formerly Deaconess College of Nursing, was founded in 1889 and acquired by DeVry Group in 2005. Chamberlain offers programs in nursing education leading to one of four degrees: Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) (no longer accepting new enrollment and available only at the Columbus, Ohio campus), Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degree (including both the onsite three-year BSN and the online Registered Nurse (RN) to BSN Degree Completion Option (RN to BSN)), Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) degree, including Family Nurse Practitioner (FNP), which is offered online, or the Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP) degree which is also offered online. Eleven of Chamberlains 20 campuses are co-located with DeVry University locations, which allows for efficiencies in shared resources. Chamberlain had 25,229 students enrolled in the July 2016 term, an increase of 15.9% over the prior year. Chamberlain provides a nursing education experience distinguished by a high level of care for students, academic excellence, innovation and integrity. Chamberlain is committed to graduating nurses who are empowered to transform healthcare worldwide. 4 Chamberlains degree programs integrate theoretical knowledge of general education and nursing content, psychomotor skills development and development of clinical judgment/reasoning to help students develop the education and skills necessary for a lifetime of personal and professional growth. Pre-licensure students apply theoretical knowledge through clinical training at hospitals or other healthcare facilities. Chamberlain has developed numerous partnerships with hospitals and other healthcare facilities for this purpose. In addition, Chamberlain provides robust, hands-on instruction utilizing high-fidelity human simulators and medical scenarios enacted in a simulated hospital environment. Chamberlains pre-licensure BSN degree is an onsite baccalaureate program. The BSN program enables students to complete their BSN degree in three years of full-time study as opposed to typical four-year BSN programs containing summer breaks. Students who already have achieved RN designation through a diploma or associate degree can complete their BSN degree online through Chamberlains RN to BSN completion program in three semesters of full-time study. The ADN program, which is currently in teach-out and is no longer accepting new students, is a six-semester year-round program offered onsite at the Columbus, Ohio, campus only. The online masters degree program offers four non direct-care specialty tracks: Educator Specialty track, Executive Specialty track, Informatics Specialty track and Healthcare Policy Specialty track. These programs require 36 credit hours and are designed to be completed in approximately two years of part-time study. In September 2013, Chamberlain launched a direct-care masters degree FNP program. This program requires 45 credit hours along with 650 lab and clinical hours and is designed to be completed in 2-1/2 years of part-time study. The online DNP degree program is based on the eight essentials of doctoral education outlined by the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN). The DNP is designed for nurses seeking a terminal degree in nursing and offers an alternative to research-focused PhD programs. Chamberlain offers two DNP specialty tracks: Advanced Practice Leadership (no longer accepting new students) and Healthcare Systems Leadership (launched in January 2014). The programs require 30 to 40 credit hours along with 500 to 1,000 clinical practicum hours. The programs can be completed in five to six semesters of study. During calendar year 2015, Chamberlain students that completed the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX) had an overall pass rate of 82 percent, which was 5 percentage points lower than the national BSN average pass rate. In June 2016, Chamberlain received approval from the Illinois Board of Higher Education to offer a Masters of Public Health (MPH) degree. The MPH degree is designed to prepare students (nurses and non-nurses) to become public health practitioners to work with communities and populations throughout the world to promote healthy communities, and to prevent community health problems such as disease, poverty, health access disparities and violence. The coursework is interdisciplinary and draws on systems thinking knowledge and skills from a variety of disciplines. The purpose of the MPH program is to prepare graduates to become leadership change agents in working with communities to improve health outcomes at the population and community level. Pending approval from the Higher Learning Commission, Chamberlain plans to launch this program in 2017. Carrington College (Carrington) , headquartered in Sacramento, California and formerly comprised of Apollo College, founded in 1976, and Western Career College, founded in 1967, prepares students for careers primarily in healthcare through certificate and associate degree programs at 21 locations. DeVry Group acquired the parent organization of Carrington College in September 2008. Carrington currently serves more than 6,400 students. Carrington currently offers career specific certificate or associate degree programs through campus-based courses in the following areas: 5 Medical Health & Fitness/Massage Health Care Administration Massage Therapy Medical Assisting Physical Therapy Technology Medical Billing and Coding Physical Therapist Assistant Medical Laboratory Technology Veterinary Medical Office Management Veterinary Assisting Medical Radiography Veterinary Technology Respiratory Care Pharmacy Surgical Technology Pharmacy Technology Nursing Criminal Justice Practical Nursing Criminal Justice Registered Nursing Vocational Nursing Dental Dental Assisting Dental Hygiene International and Professional Education DeVry Brasil was established in 2001 and is based in the city of Fortaleza, State of Cear, in the Northeast region of Brazil. DeVry Group completed its acquisition of a majority stake in DeVry Brasil in April 2009. As part of DeVry Groups diversification strategy, ten acquisitions have since been completed in Brazil. DeVry Brasil is currently comprised of 13 institutions: Faculdades Nordeste (Fanor), Faculdade Ruy Barbosa (Ruy Barbosa), Faculdade REA1 (REA1), Faculdade Boa Viagem (FBV), Centro Universitrio Vale do Ipojuca (UniFavip), Faculdade Diferencial Integral (Facid), Faculdade DeVry So Luis (Sao Luis), Faculdade DeVry Joao Pessoa (Joao Pessoa), Faculdade Martha Falco (FMF), Faculdade Ideal (Faci), Damsio Educacional (Damasio), Grupo Ibmec Educacional S.A. (Grupo Ibmec) and Faculdade de Imperatriz (Facimp). DeVry Brasils institutions offer undergraduate and graduate programs mainly focused in business, management, medical, healthcare, law and engineering. In addition, Damasio offers legal bar exam review courses and review courses for tests required for diplomatic careers in Brazil. These institutions operate 22 academic sites located in 12 states in Northeast, North and Southeast Brazil. Damasio also has franchise agreements with approximately 220 distance learning centers throughout Brazil. DeVry Brasil serves more than 79,000 students in undergraduate and graduate programs and also serves more than 30,000 test preparation students. The vision of DeVry Brasil is to become one of the leading Brazilian educational groups, recognized for high quality and innovation, offering international academic standards and focused on professional success of its students. Becker Professional Education (Becker) , founded in 1957 as Becker CPA Review and acquired by DeVry Group in 1996, is a global leader in professional education serving the accounting, finance, project management and healthcare professions. Becker prepares candidates for the Certified Public Accountant (CPA), Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), Project Management Professional (PMP), and USMLE certification examinations and offers continuing professional education programs and seminars. Classes are taught in more than 300 locations, including sites in 55 foreign countries, directly by Becker and through licensed affiliates and DeVry University teaching sites. Nearly one million candidates have prepared for the Uniform CPA Examination (CPA exam) using Beckers CPA exam review course. 6 Through its CPA exam review courses, Becker served over 45,000 students in fiscal year 2016. Becker is the industry leader in providing CPA exam review services and has been preparing candidates to pass the CPA exam for over 50 years. For calendar year 2015, 68 of the 75 Elijah Watt Sells Award winners, individuals who achieved the highest cumulative scores on the CPA exam, prepared with Becker. For 2014, 53 of 59 Elijah Watt Sells Award winners prepared with Becker. Since 2005, when the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) began to share national results, 90 percent or more of the exams top scorers have prepared with Becker. To better meet the demands of todays busy professionals, Beckers classes are offered in two formats: live and online. The online product is interactive, and offers the same instructor-led lectures and materials available in the live classroom courses. Becker provides access to online academic support with highly targeted answers to specific questions. Based on surveys of Becker CPA exam review course students who took the CPA exam, and published exam pass rate statistics supplied by the AICPA, Becker CPA Review students pass at twice the rate of all CPA exam candidates who did not take a Becker review course. Becker also offers continuing professional education and training programs in the fields of accounting, finance and project management to help individuals and organizations achieve superior performance through professional development. In addition, Becker Healthcare provides comprehensive review programs for todays physicians in training. CPA Exam Review The CPA exam is prepared and administered by the AICPA. The CPA exam is offered only in a computer-based, on-demand, four-part format for eight months of the year. In addition to successfully passing the four-part exam, CPA candidates must also meet educational, work experience, and other requirements specific to the state or jurisdiction in which they intend to be licensed to practice. Association of Certified Anti-Money Laundering Specialists (ACAMS) In July 2016, Becker acquired ACAMS, further expanding its professional education offerings into anti-money laundering and financial crimes prevention training, conferences, consulting and certification. Business, Technology and Management DeVry University and its Keller Graduate School of Management (Keller), which comprise this segments operations were founded by Dr. Herman DeVry in 1931. DeVry University provides quality, career-oriented masters, bachelors and associate degree programs and certificate programs in technology, science, business and the arts. DeVry University is one of the largest private, degree-granting, regionally accredited higher education systems in the U.S. with undergraduate and graduate degree programs offered on campus and online. Graduate degree programs in management are offered through Keller. The mission of DeVry University is to foster student learning through high-quality, career-oriented education integrating technology, science, business and the arts. DeVry University strives to produce successful student learning outcomes while providing exceptional student care and attention. The university delivers degrees with speed and flexibility by offering career-oriented undergraduate and graduate programs onsite and online to meet the needs of a diverse and geographically dispersed student population. DeVry Universitys academic structure is organized within five colleges. This structure provides flexibility for future curricula. Degree programs and concentrations are offered in the following areas: 7 College of Liberal Arts & Sciences College of Health Sciences College of Media Arts & Technology Bachelors Degree Associate Degree Associate Degree Communications Neurodiagnostic Technology Web Graphic Design Justice Administration Health Information Technology Bachelors Degree Masters Degree (School of Education) Bachelors Degree Multimedia Design & Development Education Clinical Laboratory Science Healthcare Administration College of Business & Management College of Engineering & Information Sciences Associate Degree Associate Degree Accounting Bachelors Degree Electronics & Computer Technology Network & Communications Mgt. Accounting Network Systems Administration Business Administration Bachelors Degree Management Biomedical Engineering Technology Technical Management Computer Engineering Technology Computer Information Systems Keller Graduate School of Management Electronics Engineering Technology Masters Degree Game & Simulation Programming Accounting Network and Communications Accounting & Financial Management Management Business Administration Masters Degree Human Resource Management Electrical Engineering Information Systems Management Network and Communications Management Project Management Public Administration Students access these programs through a system of 60 locations in the U.S., as of June 30, 2016, as well as through DeVry Universitys online delivery platform. DeVry Universitys campus footprint has been reduced by 21 locations since June 30, 2015. To facilitate transfers from one DeVry University location to another without disrupting studies, our graduate and undergraduate curricula generally are consistent at all locations (with some content variations to meet local employment market and/or regulatory or accreditation requirements). DeVry University offers all of its graduate programs and nearly all of its undergraduate programs online, making these programs available to qualified students in most states and internationally without regard to their location or daily schedule. The majority of DeVry Universitys students are non-traditional learners and/or working adults attracted by the quality, inherent flexibility and convenience of the program delivery format. Non-traditional learners are considered to be those other than recent high-school graduates. We also have many students who mix and match onsite and online courses to best meet their individual needs and schedules. DeVry University operates on a uniform academic calendar for both the undergraduate and graduate degree programs across both the onsite and online methods of educational delivery. The calendar consists of three 16-week semesters comprised of two 8-week sessions. Laboratory courses throughout many curricula prepare students for the workplace by integrating classroom learning with a practical, hands-on experience and applied learning activities that enhance technical skills. For some courses, laboratory activities are delivered in a specialized classroom featuring specialized equipment and software. In addition, some laboratory activities take place in a lecture-lab classroom, using computers and various software packages. DeVry University also invests in resources for libraries and academic support services that can assist students in any phase of their educational program. DeVry University offers undergraduate students an array of social and professional activities including student organizations closely linked to students professional aspirations. Faculty members serve as mentors for student chapters of professional associations and sponsor a wide range of student co-curricular projects. Students are required to study practical strategies and methods for realizing success to help instill individual responsibility for learning and growth. Keller has a continued and sustained focus on excellence in teaching, student mastery of practical management skills and service to working adults. The curricula, like the undergraduate curricula, are subject to regular review for relevance to both students and employers. Keller offers classes in the evening, on weekends and online, which enables students to complete their degrees using whatever combination of online and onsite coursework suits their needs. To broaden the scope and appeal of its masters degree programs, Keller has developed concentrations and graduate certificates. Many faculty members are practicing professionals who bring their expertise to the classroom, emphasizing theory and practices that will best serve students in their critical competencies in areas such as business communications, electronic commerce, technology, ethics, quality and international matters are woven throughout the curricula. 8 Kellers Master of Project Management program abides by the operational and educational criteria established by the Project Management Institute and has earned the highest level of accreditation and the elite designation of Global Accreditation Center. Coursework within Kellers Master of Human Resource Management program is in alignment with the HR Curriculum Guidelines and Templates established by the Society for Human Resource Management. The Master of Public Administration program offers students a choice of three tracks: Government Management, Nonprofit Management and Health Management. DEGREE AND PROGRAM ENROLLMENTS The following tables provide the percentage of enrollment by degree and program for DeVry Groups postsecondary educational institutions. Percent of Enrollment by Degree Percent of Enrollment by Program Fall Fall Fall Fall 2015 2014 2015 2014 Doctoral 8.0 % 7.0 % Medical and Healthcare 54.3 % 45.3 % Master's 21.0 % 19.5 % Business 28.9 % 33.6 % Bachelor's 53.1 % 54.9 % Technology 15.0 % 18.8 % Associate 10.0 % 12.1 % Other 1.8 % 2.3 % Certificate 8.0 % 6.5 % MARKET TRENDS AND COMPETITION Medical and Healthcare DeVry Medical International AUC and RUSM compete with 145 accredited U.S. schools of medicine, 33 U.S. colleges of osteopathic medicine and approximately 40 Caribbean medical schools as well as with international medical schools recruiting U.S. students who may be eligible to receive funding from U.S. Department of Education (ED) Title IV programs. RUSVM competes with American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) accredited schools, of which 30 are U.S.-based, 5 are Canadian and 13 are other international veterinary schools. DMIs educational institutions attract potential students for several reasons. Some applied to U.S.-based medical or veterinary schools but were not admitted or were wait-listed. Some students elected not to apply to U.S. schools because of self-perceived chances of gaining acceptance. For some students, DMIs education institutions are their first or only choice of schools because of their commitment to and focus on quality and on practitioner-oriented teaching. For the 2015-2016 academic year, the Association of American Medical Colleges (AAMC) reported 52,550 U.S. medical school applicants, a 9.4% increase over the prior year. Of these applicants, 20,631 enrolled, a 2.9% increase over the prior year. For the 2015-2016 academic year, the American Association of Colleges of Osteopathic Medicine Application Service (AACOMAS) reported 20,447 applicants to U.S. colleges of osteopathic medicine, a 13.9% increase over the prior year. The number of Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation approved seats of 6,392 increased only 3.2% over the prior year. For the 2015-2016 academic year, the Association of American Veterinary Medicine Colleges (AAVMC) received 6,667 applicants, a 1% increase over the prior year, for the 4,227 seats available at AAVMC institutional members (U.S. and international). The number of available seats increased less than 1% over the prior year. Medical and veterinary school applicants who were denied admission or wait-listed at U.S. schools constitute a large segment of prospective students for DMIs educational institutions. Based upon the number of Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) attempts, which increased to approximately 95,000 in 2013, up from approximately 89,000 in 2012, management believes the potential market for medical school students is much larger than the denied applicant pool alone. 9 According to the AAMC Center for Workforce Studies, in a June 2010 analysis, the demand for physicians will outpace supply by approximately 12% in 2020 and by almost 17% by 2025. There has been some recent expansion in the U.S. medical education enrollment capacity because of the growing supply/demand imbalance for medical doctors. According to an AAMC March 2014 study, medical school first-year enrollment as of the 2013-2014 academic year increased by 22% over the 2002 level. The current 145 accredited U.S. schools are projected to produce a 30% increase in enrollment by 2018-19 (over 2002 levels). Despite these increases, management believes the imbalance will continue to spur demand for medical education. Management also believes the veterinary medical education market is subject to some of the same forces. AUC, RUSM and RUSVM competitive strengths include: AUC International focus State of the art basic science campus on a developed island Wide range of options for clinical rotations in different types of health care systems RUSM Integrated, systems-based curriculum that is comparable to many top U.S. medical schools Students are able to complete all core rotations in a single geographical area RUSVM Large alumni network provides strong brand recognition and opportunities for mentorship Clinical network, including international clinical rotations Training relevant to both developing and developed countries Research program emphasizing tropical region study Moreover, management believes that in the last five years, RUSM graduates obtained more first-year residency positions at U.S. teaching hospitals than graduates from any other medical school in the world, including those schools in the U.S. This data is based on an internal study of the maximum possible U.S. residencies with the largest medical schools in the world. RUSMs residency appointments have been in virtually every medical specialty and subspecialty. Chamberlain College of Nursing Nationally, Chamberlain competes in the nursing education market which has more than 1,800 programs leading to RN licensure. These include both four-year educational institutions and two-year community colleges. For pre-licensure, Chamberlain has an advantage over many of its competitors because it offers a three-year, year-round BSN program as opposed to typical four-year BSN programs where students take the summer off. Chamberlain also has the ability to add capacity to meet demand due to its standardized program and operational efficiency. In post-licensure nursing education, there are over 600 programs offering RN to BSN programs and over 500 programs offering masters degrees in nursing. Chamberlain has an advantage in the post-licensure market over many of its competitors because it offers eight-week sessions, with multiple start dates per year; there are no onsite coursework requirements and the programs have a shorter time to completion. Chamberlains FNP program is approved in 41 states and can be completed almost entirely online. Nursing constitutes the largest occupation in healthcare in the U.S., with 2.7 million RNs in 2015, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that employment of RNs is expected to grow 16% from 2014 to 2024, faster than the average employment growth rate for all occupations. Despite the long-term need for nurses, demand has not yet produced a sufficient increase in educational capacity. According to ACCNs report on 2015-2016 Enrollment and Graduations in Baccalaureate and Graduate Programs in Nursing, U.S. nursing schools turned away 47,341 qualified applicants from baccalaureate nursing programs in 2015 due to an insufficient number of faculty, clinical sites, classroom space, clinical preceptors and budget constraints. In addition, demand for BSN degrees is expected to be impacted by certain hospital accreditation standards of the percentage of nurses requiring this degree or higher. 10 Carrington College The career college segment of the postsecondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive. No single institution has a significant market share. Most students will not relocate or travel long distances to attend a career college, so competition is primarily at the local level. Competitors range from large public community colleges to professionally operated multi-campus institutions to single campus family owned institutions. In general, community colleges offer the lowest tuition prices and have the largest enrollments. A prospective career college student in most markets will have a choice of institutions offering similar programs. Carrington distinguishes itself by focusing primarily on healthcare programs. Carrington campuses offer students: A wide range of healthcare program offerings; Attractive and conveniently located facilities; Learning methodologies that blend didactic instruction with experiential laboratory exercises; Faculty that have relevant work experience; Small class sizes; High levels of service to students; and Accelerated programs with a choice of class schedules. International and Professional Education DeVry Brasil The Brazilian private postsecondary education market grew by 88% between 2003 and 2014 (online and onsite students), reaching approximately US$15 billion in revenue and enrollment of 7.8 million students in 2014, according to Hoper Educational Consulting and Ministry of Education (MEC). In addition, the goals defined by the Nacional Plan of Education (NPE) for the period from 2011 to 2020, indicate a continuing favorable scenario for the expansion of higher education in Brazil. NPE expects to increase enrollments by 50%, which would represent almost five million more higher education students in the next seven to eight years. Brazil has the largest private higher education market in Latin America, which until recently, was highly fragmented. Within the last several years, private equity firms and international educational groups have been investing in the countrys education institutions resulting in consolidation of the market. Private higher education institutions can be divided into three different segments: Mass market: fastest growing segment, with the highest regulatory risk; Superior quality market: growth is driven by gaining market share from competitors; increasing the accessibility of student financing should accelerate growth in this market; and Niche market: highly specialized, has limited growth potential. Most DeVry Brasil institutions compete in the superior quality market. DeVry Brasil faces local competition at each location in which it operates. Nationwide there are also competitors such as: Laureate, Kroton Educacional, Anima, SER and UNIP. Private institutions play an important role in the Brazilian education market. According to MEC, of the 7.8 million students who were enrolled in higher education in Brazil, 75% were enrolled in private institutions. Enrollment of new students in private institutions grew by 4.5% from 2012 to 2014, compared to 1.9% growth of new students at public institutions. According to the Brazilian Association of Distance Learning Education, the number of jobs requiring successful completion of a competency exam grew by 45% from 2013 to 2015. There are currently approximately 12 million applicants for these positions. The number of Order of Attorneys of Brazil Exam (the equivalent of the U.S. Bar Exam) applicants has been steady at approximately 115,000 for the past two years. Becker Professional Education Becker competes with other purveyors of exam preparation, including courses offered by colleges and universities, and courses offered by other public and private training companies. As a trusted brand, Becker typically charges more for exam preparation than its competitors. 11 With its 50-plus year history and exceptional track record of preparing students to pass the CPA exam, Becker differentiates itself from competitors by providing: Extensive, continuously updated and fully integrated review and practice test materials; Experienced, highly qualified instructors for each of the areas of specialty included in the exam; Courses available in two formats, live class and online, to meet candidate needs for flexibility and control; Global presence with over 300 locations worldwide and over 1,500 partner accounting firms, societies and universities; Practice simulations and software functionality, similar to those used in the actual exam; and Newly introduced mobile apps enabling students to study anywhere. Beckers live and online courses provide a wider range of study alternatives than other course providers. Becker students have a high success rate on the CPA exam, passing at double the rate of non-Becker students. Some Becker students enroll after taking other review courses or studying independently without success. CPA exam candidates can take advantage of Beckers CPA exam review learning approach and materials in conjunction with their DeVry University MBA, Master of Accounting and Financial Management or Master of Science in Accounting programs, earning full academic credit. These credits also may be used to fulfill the 150-hour educational requirement that most states have made a prerequisite to becoming licensed as a CPA. Extending the marketing and administrative benefits of joint operation, Becker offers classes at DeVry University locations or through online learning. Business, Technology and Management DeVry University In every market in which DeVry University operates, there are numerous state institutions, community colleges and independent universities. In particular, there is growing competitive pressure from online programs by private-sector, publicly-funded and independent institutions. Due to increased competition and the overall postsecondary student population decline over the last several years, DeVry University is experiencing significantly higher declines in enrollment. The postsecondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive. No single institution has a significant market share. According to the National Center for Education Statistics (NCES), there were 7,162 Title IV eligible postsecondary institutions in the U.S. as of the 2015-16 academic year, including 3,265 private, for-profit (private-sector) schools; 1,990 public schools (e.g. state institutions and community colleges); and 1,909 private, not-for-profit (independent) schools. According to NCES, in the 2014-15 academic year, there were 27.4 million students attending institutions that participate in the various financial aid programs under Title IV. While tuition at independent institutions is, on average, higher than tuition at DeVry University, the net price (Cost of Attendance less scholarships and grants) for the demographic served by DeVry University is often less. Publicly-supported colleges often offer similar programs at a lower tuition level because of government subsidies, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial sources not available to private-sector schools. In fact, many local community colleges offer programs similar in content to DeVry Universitys associate degree programs, but at a much lower tuition. While community colleges may be viewed as competitors, they also provide DeVry University an opportunity. DeVry University has a number of articulation and transfer agreements in place with community colleges that make it easier for community college graduates to continue their education to earn a bachelors degree at DeVry University. Undergraduate Programs Management believes that DeVry Universitys competitive strengths in the market for undergraduate programs include: Career-oriented curricula developed with employer input; Faculty with relevant industry experience; Well-developed and professionally staffed undergraduate career service programs; Dedicated student service assistance throughout their programs (DeVry Care); National name recognition and market presence; Regional accreditation; 12 Modern facilities and well-equipped laboratories; Flexibility and convenience with classes offered at many locations nationwide and online, utilizing connected classroom technology; Evening, weekend, and online class schedules; Year-round academic schedules that permit more flexible attendance and earlier graduation; Bachelors degree programs that can be completed in three years; and Small class sizes. DeVry University has increased its competitiveness by offering many programs online and providing flexible class schedules and learning formats. Undergraduate classes at DeVry University centers generally are offered in the evening for the convenience of working adult students, but daytime classes are offered at centers in markets where there is deemed to be sufficient demand. Graduate Programs Management believes that DeVry Universitys competitive strengths in the market for graduate programs include: A practitioner oriented approach to education that stresses skills that employers value; A high level of service to the adult student, including flexible schedules and locations that are convenient to where many students work; The convenience of onsite teaching locations in major metropolitan areas nationwide and online; and Flexible schedules with six sessions each year that enable new students to start their program at any of the six sessions and continuing students to take a session off, if necessary, to accommodate their schedules. Demographic information based on DeVry Universitys fall term enrollment follows. Total Population Fall 2015 Fall 2014 Undergraduate 73.5 % 74.5 % Graduate 26.5 % 25.5 % Age Fall 2015 Fall 2014 24 and Under 18.4 % 20.5 % 25 - 39 57.8 % 56.3 % 40 and Over 23.8 % 23.2 % Gender Fall 2015 Fall 2014 Male 49.5 % 51.4 % Female 50.5 % 48.6 % Race/Ethnicity Fall 2015 Fall 2014 White 39.0 % 37.8 % Black or African American 24.2 % 24.5 % Hispanic (of any race) 16.3 % 15.9 % Asian 5.5 % 5.2 % American Indian or Alaska Native 0.5 % 0.5 % Non-resident Alien 2.8 % 2.7 % Two or More Races 1.1 % 1.1 % Native Hawaiian or Other Pacific Islander 0.7 % 0.7 % Race/Ethnicity Unknown 10.0 % 11.6 % 13 STUDENT ADMISSIONS Medical and Healthcare DeVry Medical International Marketing and Outreach AUC, RUSM and RUSVM focus their marketing efforts on attracting qualified, primarily U.S. and Canadian, applicants, with the motivation and requisite academic ability to complete their educational programs and pass the USMLE and the North American Veterinary Licensure Examination, respectively. Each institutions marketing effort includes visits to undergraduate campuses to meet students and their pre-med/pre-vet advisors, direct e-mail marketing, webinars, targeted direct mail campaigns, information seminars in major markets throughout the U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico, alumni referrals, a national undergraduate poster campaign, radio advertisements in select markets, internet media and print ads in major magazines and newspapers. Student Admissions and Admissions Standards AUC, RUSM and RUSVM each employ regional admissions representatives in locations throughout the U.S. and in Ontario, Canada, who seek out students interested in its programs. Senior Associate Directors of Admission and Associate Directors of Admission recruit, interview, admit and enroll all new students to each of the three entering cohorts. The successful applicant must have completed prerequisite science (with labs), mathematics and English courses. Candidates for admission must interview with an admissions representative and all admission decisions are made by the admissions committees of the medical and veterinary schools. Chamberlain College of Nursing Marketing and Outreach Chamberlain utilizes varied marketing approaches to inform potential students interested in entering or advancing their nursing careers. Chamberlain recruiters visit high schools, cultivate alumni referrals and participate in information seminars and career fairs. Chamberlain holds open house events to attract local prospective students, and advertises on television, on the internet, in healthcare career publications, in newspapers and on the radio. Post-licensure programs rely primarily on internet advertising, word of mouth from current students and alumni, and healthcare partnerships to reach prospective students. A team of healthcare development specialists has been built over the past several years that establishes partnerships with healthcare institutions, large employers of nurses and community colleges. Student Admissions and Admissions Standards Chamberlain campuses employ regional admissions representatives who arrange for student interviews and campus tours. Pre-licensure program admission requirements include a high school diploma or General Education Development (GED), with minimum cumulative grade point average requirements. Applicants to the pre-licensure programs must pass the Chamberlain standard pre-admission exam to be eligible for admission. Admissions decisions are made by faculty admissions committees. Carrington College Marketing and Outreach Carrington utilizes varied marketing approaches to generate interest from potential students. Admissions advisors visit high schools. Carrington also conducts local advertising campaigns using broadcast media, print media, targeted direct mail and the internet. In addition, Carrington campuses hold open house events for prospective students, cultivate alumni referrals and participate in information seminars and career fairs. International and Professional Education DeVry Brasil Marketing and Outreach DeVry Brasil advertises on various internet sites, at special events, on television and radio and utilizes a variety of methods to reach prospective students. Each DeVry Brasil institution and campus has a specific media plan based on the local market. 14 DeVry Brasils high school program representatives visit high schools throughout the Northeast, North and Southeast regions of Brazil, providing workshops on career choices, the importance of a college education and the international benefits offered by DeVry Brasil. DeVry Brasils Corporate Training Services organization is designed to meet the educational needs of corporate clients and their employees with tailor-made program offerings. A national network of corporate account supervisors directs the student recruiting efforts primarily at the countrys more prominent companies, leveraging relationships with these clients and offering undergraduate, graduate and also customized educational programs. Student Admissions and Admission Standards DeVry Brasil provides admissions services, and employs salaried, full-time admissions advisors at each DeVry Brasil institution to support those candidates interested in enrolling in any of DeVry Brasils institutions. Applicants to DeVry Brasil undergraduate programs are required to take an entrance examination or Vestibular at each institution during one of the two enrollment sessions per year, in January and July. DeVry Brasil offers the CASA program (Student Support) which aims to help students achieve better academic results through educational and psychological support and monitoring. CASA program advisors provide professional guidance to current students and alumni. The main objective of this support is to facilitate access to labor markets and to help students in planning their professional careers. Becker Professional Education Marketing and Outreach Becker markets its courses directly to potential students and to selected employers, primarily the large global, national and regional public accounting firms. Alumni referrals, direct mail, print advertising, e-mail, digital and social media advertising and a network of student representatives at colleges and universities across the country also generate new students for Beckers review courses. The Becker website is another source of information for interested applicants. Becker has relationships with more than 2,500 public accounting firms, corporations, government agencies and universities. Becker delivers its CPA review courses on more than 100 college campuses, recruiting students attending those institutions. Becker also is the preferred provider of CPA review for most of the countrys largest public accounting firms, having relationships with all of the top 100 public accounting firms, including each of the Big 4 public accounting firms. Business, Technology and Management DeVry University Marketing and Outreach DeVry University advertises on various internet sites, on television and radio and utilizes a variety of methods to reach prospective students. DeVry Universitys highly integrated brand initiative focuses on DeVry University as an accredited, quality academic institution. Its campaigns are grounded in ongoing in-depth consumer marketplace research, and leverage multiple channels, including broadcast, print and internet advertising, public relations, content marketing and social media, as well as local marketing efforts. DeVry University serves high school students in several unique ways. Since July 2004, we have worked with the Chicago Public School system to create the DeVry University Advantage Academy. A second Advantage Academy was later started in Columbus, Ohio, followed by additional Advantage Academies with two different city school districts in Atlanta, Georgia. Students enter DeVry Universitys Advantage Academy at the start of their junior year, and complete two academic years and one summer term. At the conclusion of the program, students can earn their high school diploma and an associate degree in either Network Systems Administration or Web Graphic Design. Most students go on to bachelors degree programs, either at DeVry University or other public or private universities. These programs have consistently reported high combined high school graduation and associate degree completion rates. 15 Student Admissions and Admissions Standards DeVry University employs enrollment advisors who visit high schools, community colleges and military bases while conducting presentations on career choices, particularly in business and technology related fields, and on the importance of a college education. Many of DeVry Universitys applicants are working adults who want to attend class in the evening or on weekends, recently unemployed adults seeking to improve their job skills, and students transferring to a DeVry University undergraduate program from other colleges and universities. Because a large portion of our new undergraduate students have some prior college experience, DeVry University has articulation agreements with many community colleges to facilitate the enrollment of their students seeking to transfer course credits to DeVry University. DeVry Universitys DeVry Works initiative is designed to meet the education needs of corporate clients and their employees with DeVry University program offerings. A national network of account managers directs its student recruiting efforts primarily at Fortune 1000 companies, leveraging relationships with these clients through DeVry Universitys career services organization. To be admitted to a DeVry University undergraduate program, a U.S. applicant must be a high school graduate from a DeVry University recognized institution, have a GED certificate, or hold a degree from a DeVry University approved postsecondary institution. Applicants for general admission must be at least 17 years old and complete an interview with an admissions representative. International applicants must provide documentation demonstrating the required level of prior education, satisfy the English-language proficiency requirement and meet all other admission requirements. All applicants must meet prescribed admission qualifications and be evaluated by DeVry University to determine admissibility and placement. Admissibility and placement criteria vary by degree program. During the admission process, applicants are required to take the DeVry University administered placement exams, which assess achievement levels and transitional study needs. ACT or SAT scores deemed appropriate for the desired program, or acceptable grades in qualifying college-level work completed at an approved postsecondary institution, may also be used to evidence admissibility and determine placement. After prospective students complete an application, an admissions representative contacts them through phone calls, text messages, emails, and/or invitations to location-based workshops or other events to improve the rate at which qualified applicants begin their program of study. To be admitted to a graduate program, applicants must hold a bachelors degree from a U.S. institution that is accredited by or is in candidacy status with a U.S. regional accrediting agency or selected national accrediting agencies or international institutions recognized as the equivalent, and complete an interview with an admissions representative. International applicants must hold a degree recognized to be equivalent to a U.S. baccalaureate degree, satisfy the English-language proficiency requirement and meet all other admission requirements. Applicants whose undergraduate cumulative grade point average is 2.70 or higher are eligible for admission. Applicants with a cumulative grade point average below 2.70 must achieve acceptable scores on the Graduate Management Admission Test (GMAT), the Graduate Record Examination (GRE) or the DeVry University administered placement exams. Admissions decisions are based on evaluation of a candidates academic credentials, entrance test scores and a personal interview. ACCREDITATION Educational institutions and their individual programs are awarded accreditation by achieving a level of quality that entitles them to the confidence of the educational community and the public they serve. Accredited institutions are subject to periodic review by accrediting bodies to ensure continued high performance, institutional and program improvement and integrity, and to confirm that accreditation requirements continue to be satisfied. College and university administrators depend on the accredited status of an institution when evaluating transfer credit and applicants to their schools; employers rely on the accredited status of an institution when evaluating a candidates credentials; and parents and high school counselors look to accreditation for assurance that an institution meets quality educational standards. Moreover, in the U.S., accreditation is necessary for students to qualify for federal financial assistance, and most scholarship commissions restrict their awards to students attending accredited institutions. 16 Medical and Healthcare DeVry Medical International The Government of St. Maarten authorizes AUC to confer the M.D. degree. AUC is accredited by the Accreditation Commission on Colleges of Medicine (ACCM). The ACCM is an international medical school accrediting organization for countries which do not have a national medical school accreditation body. The National Committee on Foreign Medical Education and Accreditation of ED (NCFMEA) has affirmed that the ACCM has established and enforces standards of educational accreditation that are comparable to those promulgated by the U.S. Liaison Committee on Medical Education (LCME). In addition, AUC is approved by California, Florida and New York, where processes are in place to evaluate and accredit an international medical schools programs, allowing AUC students to participate in clinical rotations and residency training programs in those states. The Commonwealth of Dominica authorizes RUSM to confer the M.D. degree. RUSM is recognized and accredited by the Dominica Medical Board (DMB), which is authorized to accredit medical programs by the government of Dominica. The NCFMEA has affirmed that the country of Dominica has established and enforces standards of educational accreditation that are comparable to those promulgated by the LCME. RUSM has also received four-year accreditation by the Caribbean Accreditation Authority for Education in Medicine and other Health Professions. In addition, RUSM is approved by the four U.S. states California, Florida, New Jersey and New York that have processes in place to evaluate an international medical schools program, allowing RUSM students to participate in clinical and residency training programs in those states. RUSVM has been recognized and accredited by the government of the Federation of St. Christopher and Nevis (St. Kitts) and is chartered to confer the D.V.M. degree. RUSVM has received programmatic accreditation by the AVMA. RUSVM has affiliations with more than 20 AVMA-accredited U.S. and international colleges of veterinary medicine so that RUSVM students can complete their final three semesters of study in the U.S. or abroad. RUSVM has received full accreditation for its Postgraduate Studies program from the St. Christopher & Nevis Accreditation Board. The Postgraduate Studies program offers Master of Science and Doctoral (Ph.D.) degrees in all research areas supported by RUSVM. Areas of emphasis are guided by RUSVM's themed Research Centers. Chamberlain College of Nursing Chamberlain is accredited by the Higher Learning Commission of the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (HLC) which is one of the eight regional agencies that accredit U.S. colleges and universities at the institutional level. The baccalaureate, masters and doctorate degree nursing programs are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE). Carrington College Carrington is regionally accredited by the Accrediting Commission of Community and Junior Colleges of the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC/WASC). In addition to the institutional accreditation, various individual campus locations hold a number of programmatic accreditations and approvals by the following programmatic accreditors: Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools for Medical Assisting Accrediting Commission for Education in Nursing (formerly NLNAC) American Society of Health-System Pharmacists American Veterinary Medical Association Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs Commission on Accreditation for Respiratory Care Commission on Dental Accreditation Joint Review Committee on Education in Radiologic Technology The Commission on Accreditation in Physical Therapy Education International and Professional Education DeVry Brasil The Brazilian MEC controls and regulates postsecondary education at all levels in Brazil. The MEC also controls the issuance of licenses and permits. 17 The MEC licensing process occurs in two levels: institutional and programmatic. Each institution is required to obtain a license which must be renewed every three to five years. Such licenses can be automatically renewed if the institution presents an Indice Geral de Curso or General Course Index (IGC) score above 2, within a range of 1 to 5 (with 5 being the maximum grade possible). Among the DeVry Brasil institutions, the current licensing status and IGC scores are as follows: REA1: License renewal in final phase, IGC score of 3 Damasio: License renewed in 2013, IGC score of 3 Faci: License renewed in 2011, IGC score of 3 Facid: License renewed in 2012, IGC score of 3 Facimp: License renewal in final phase, IGC score of 3 Fanor: License renewal in final phase, IGC score of 3 FBV: License renewal in final phase, IGC score of 3 FMF: License renewal in final phase, IGC score of 3 IBMEC BH License renewal in final phase, IGC score of 4 IBMEC RJ License renewed in 2015, IGC score of 4 Joao Pessoa: First license granted in 2013, no IGC score yet Metrocamp: License renewed in 2011, IGC score of 3 Ruy Barbosa: License renewal in final phase, IGC score of 3 Sao Luis: First license granted in 2014, no IGC score yet UniFavip: License renewed in 2014, IGC score of 3 The IGC score is calculated using the average of the last three years of the Conceito Preliminar de Curso or Preliminary Program Grade (CPC) of the institution, weighted by the number of students. The CPC is an academic quality metric composed of: 55% Results of the ENADE - the national end-of-program exam organized by MEC; 30% Faculty credentials and part or full time employee status; and 15% Student satisfaction. MEC also licenses programs at each institution. The regulations are different for undergraduate and graduate programs. For undergraduate programs, MEC must grant authorization status before classes may commence. After a program is 50% to 75% complete, MEC auditors visit the program to grant the permit status, which can be automatically renewed every three years, unless the program presents a CPC below 3 within a range of 1 to 5 (with 5 being the maximum grade). Currently, DeVry Brasil has 339 authorized undergraduate programs, 68 of which possess a valid permit. Only programs leading to Master of Science and Doctorate degrees are regulated at the graduate level in Brazil. DeVry Brasil has one Master of Science program at FBV and that programs permit was renewed in 2013. Becker Professional Education Beckers accreditation from the Accrediting Council for Continuing Education & Training (ACCET) assists to extend its programs to organizations, such as governmental agencies, armed forces and international students. Business, Technology and Management DeVry University DeVry University is accredited by the HLC. In September 2008, DeVry University was accepted into the Academic Quality Improvement Program (AQIP) of the HLC, a seven-year accreditation reaffirmation process based on creating a culture of continuous improvement, one of DeVry Universitys key values. In 2013, the HLC conducted a comprehensive evaluation of DeVry University through the AQIP process and granted reaffirmation of accreditation. The next comprehensive evaluation is scheduled for 2019-2020 (subject to changes in HLC requirements). In addition to regional accreditation for the overall university, several of DeVry Universitys programs hold programmatic accreditation. The baccalaureate electronics engineering technology, biomedical engineering technology and computer engineering technology programs at many of DeVry Universitys U.S. locations are accredited by the Electronics Technology Accreditation Commission of the Accreditation Board for Engineering and Technology, an accreditation board for applied science, computing, engineering and technical education. 18 The associate degree program in health information technology is offered online and at DeVry University locations in Atlanta (Decatur), Georgia, Chicago, Illinois, Columbus, Ohio, Dallas (Irving), Texas, Ft. Washington, Pennsylvania, Houston, Texas, North Brunswick, New Jersey, and Pomona, California. These programs, and the bachelors degree program in technical management with health information management specialty, are accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education (CAHIIM). Due to decreasing enrollments, onsite delivery of Health Information Technology (HIT) courses will be discontinued following the spring 2017 term. These locations remain programmatically accredited until the courses are no longer offered onsite. The online offering of HIT will continue to be a programmatically accredited going forward. The clinical laboratory science program at DeVry Universitys Phoenix, Arizona campus is accredited by the National Accrediting Agency for Clinical Laboratory Sciences (NAACLS). The Project Management Institutes Global Accreditation Center accredits DeVry Universitys baccalaureate business administration and technical management programs when completed with project management emphasis. DeVry University undergraduate and graduate degree programs in business and accounting were granted initial accreditation by the Accreditation Council for Business Programs and Schools (ACBSP) in May 2013. DeVry University became only the ninth institution to achieve separate accounting accreditation from the ACBSP at the time of initial accreditations. This is an important milestone in recognition of DeVry Universitys quality programs and its commitment to continuous improvement. TUITION AND FEES Medical and Healthcare DeVry Medical International Effective September 2016, preliminary tuition rates for the beginning basic sciences and final clinical rotation portions of AUCs medical program will be $20,960 and $23,450, respectively, per semester. These tuition rates represent a 3.5% increase over the prior academic year. In addition to tuition, students attending AUC are subject to a $250 per semester educational resource fee while attending semesters 1 through 10, a $35 per semester student government fee while attending semesters 1 through 5, and a $300 per semester fee for professional liability insurance while performing clerkships in semesters 6 through 10. These amounts do not include the cost of transportation, living expenses and health insurance. Effective September 2016, preliminary tuition rates for the beginning basic sciences and Internal Medicine Foundations/final clinical portion of the programs at RUSM will be $21,325 and $23,530, respectively, per semester. These tuition rates represent a 3.6% increase over the prior academic year. In addition to tuition, students attending RUSM are subject to a $400 per semester educational resource fee while attending semesters 1 through 10 and a $50 per semester student government fee while attending semesters 1 through 4. These amounts do not include the cost of transportation, living expenses and health insurance. Effective September 2016, preliminary tuition rates for the basic sciences and final clinical portion of the programs at RUSVM will be $18,310 and $22,985, respectively, per semester. These tuition rates will not have increased over the prior academic year; however, effective September 2016, new incoming students will be subject to a one-time $780 technology fee to cover introduction of new paw pad technology. These amounts do not include the cost of transportation, living expenses and health insurance. Chamberlain College of Nursing Effective May 2016, tuition is $675 per credit hour for students enrolling in the BSN (onsite) and LPN-to-RN programs. This rate represents a 1.5% increase over the prior year. This amount includes the cost of electronic books but does not include hard copy books, supplies, transportation and living expenses. Effective May 2016, tuition is $590 per credit hour for students enrolled in the RN-to-BSN online degree program. This tuition rate has not increased since July 2011. Tuition for students enrolled in the online MSN program is $650 per credit hour, which is unchanged since July 2010. For students enrolled in the FNP track, tuition is $665 per credit hour for the ten FNP specialty courses. Tuition for the online DNP program is $750 per credit hour, which is unchanged from the prior two years. 19 Carrington College On a per credit hour basis, tuition for Carrington programs range from $302 per credit hour to $1,684 per credit hour, with the wide range due to the nature of the programs. General education courses are charged at $335 to $371 per credit hour. General education and most program tuition rates have not increased from the prior year. Student tuition is reduced accordingly for any incoming academic credits that are applicable. Students are charged a non-refundable registration fee of $100, and they are also charged separately for books and special (program specific) supplies and/or testing. A student services fee ranging from $30 to $150 is charged as well, depending on the program. Total program tuition ranges from approximately $12,000 for certificate programs to over $60,000 for some advanced programs. Tuition for programs offered by Carrington is based on the cost to provide the education as well as market conditions affecting the programs and the locations in which they are offered. International and Professional Education DeVry Brasil DeVry Brasil operates through 22 academic sites in 12 states in Brazil and more than 220 Damasio franchisees located throughout Brazil. Each of these cities has different competitive markets and therefore tuition differs from one city to another. All DeVry Brasil institutions have tuition levels that are competitive with other top ranked institutions in their local markets. Due to the nature and wide range of programs, 339 different programs across DeVry Brasil institutions, tuition varies from approximately US$151 per month for an Associate Degree up to approximately US$1,800 per month for a Medical Degree. Damasio provides test preparation, undergraduate and graduate courses which vary in price from approximately US$74 for a test preparation course up to approximately US$657 for a graduate course. This pricing structure is consistent with DeVry Brasils positioning as a quality education provider offering a high level of service to its students. Becker Professional Education Effective July 1, 2016, the price of Beckers complete classroom CPA review course is $3,393. Exam candidates may elect to enroll for individual sections of the exam review course at a price of $1,131 per section. These prices represent no increase from the prior year. Becker offers discounts from these tuition rates under various enrollment promotions at college campuses, state CPA societies and participating accounting firms. Business, Technology and Management DeVry University DeVry Universitys Fixed Tuition Promise (FTP) is a cohort tuition policy for matriculating students enrolled in the July 2014 through May 2017 sessions, whereby tuition rates are locked in until students graduate as long as they remain enrolled. To maintain eligibility, students may not miss more than five consecutive sessions . The FTP applies to students in all programs and all levels of study. Effective September 2015, DeVry Universitys U.S. undergraduate tuition is $609 per credit hour for new students and the special savings when a student took seven or more credits was eliminated. If a student was enrolled before September 2015, they will still pay $365 for each credit hour in excess of seven as they are covered under the FTP. These amounts do not include the cost of books, supplies, transportation and living expenses. Based upon current tuition rates, a full-time student enrolling in the five semester undergraduate network systems administration associate degree program will pay total tuition of $39,585. A student enrolled in the eight semester undergraduate business administration bachelors degree program will pay total tuition of $75,516. Each semester is comprised of two eight-week sessions. 20 Among four-year institutions, DeVry Universitys undergraduate tuition during the 2014-2015 academic year was lower than the average tuition of independent schools and the average out-of-state (unsubsidized) tuition of public schools, but it was higher than the average in-state (taxpayer subsidized) tuition of publicly-supported institutions, according to data published in the Annual Survey of Colleges by the College Board. At four-year private schools, the average annual undergraduate tuition and fees for the 2014-2015 academic year was $31,231 at independent schools (a 3.7% increase from the prior year) and $15,230 at private-sector schools (a 1.3% increase from the previous year). The average annual undergraduate tuition and fees at four-year public schools was $9,139 for in-state (a 2.9% increase from the previous year) and $22,958 for out-of-state tuition (a 3.3% increase from the previous year). Effective July 2016, Keller program tuition per course is $2,298. This rate has not increased since July 2012. Under the Career Catalyst Scholarship, DeVry University provides scholarship awards to qualifying students. The scholarships are valued at up to a total of $20,000 per student, depending on the degree and transfer credits brought in by a student. Students qualifying for DeVry Universitys Career Catalyst Scholarship are eligible to receive scholarship awards of progressive amounts over a period of three years. For example, students in their first year of a bachelors degree program can be awarded up to $5,000. During the second year, the available award may increase up to $7,000. For the third year, the award can increase up to $8,000. The Career Catalyst Scholarship discussed above and other scholarship offerings were consolidated into a new DeVry University Scholarship and Grant which was announced in February 2016 (effective for the March 2016 session). This offering is for new and readmitted undergraduate students. The merit-based award is designed to give qualified students an opportunity to be rewarded for their academic performance as they progress in their studies to graduation. Initial awards are based on a students incoming grade point average, with subsequent awards determined annually based on the students cumulative GPA. Eligible students can receive up to $25,000 in lifetime award funding for bachelors degree students, and up to a $12,500 lifetime award for associate degree students. Award amounts range from $1,000 to $2,500 per semester for full-time enrollment. If a student leaves school before completing an enrollment period, U.S. state, and Canadian provincial regulations permit schools to retain a set percentage of the total tuition received. This amount varies, but generally equals or exceeds the percentage of the term the student completes. Excess amounts are refunded to the student or the appropriate financial aid funding source. FINANCIAL AID AND FINANCING STUDENT EDUCATION Students attending AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, Chamberlain, Carrington, DeVry Brasil and DeVry University pay for their education through a variety of sources. These sources include government-sponsored financial aid, private and university-provided scholarships, employer-provided tuition assistance, veterans benefits, private loans and cash payments. Students attending Becker review courses are not eligible for federal or state financial aid, but many receive partial or full tuition reimbursement from their employers. In addition, Beckers CPA Review course can be financed through Becker under an 18-month term loan program. The following table summarizes DeVry Groups cash receipts from tuition payments by fund source as a percentage of total revenue for the fiscal years 2015 and 2014, respectively. Final data for fiscal year 2016 is not yet available. Fiscal Year 2015 2014 Funding Source: Federal Assistance (Title IV) Program Funding (Grants and Loans) 59 % 60 % Brazil FIES Public Loan Program 2 % 3 % State Grants 1 % 1 % Private Loans 1 % 1 % Student accounts, cash payments, private scholarships, employer and military provided tuition assistance and other 37 % 35 % Total 100 % 100 % All financial aid and assistance programs are subject to political and governmental budgetary considerations. In the U.S., the Higher Education Act (as reauthorized, HEA) guides the federal governments support of postsecondary education. The HEA was last reauthorized by the U.S. Congress in July 2008, and was signed into law in August 2008. The reauthorization of the HEA automatic one year extension is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2016. Committee leadership of both the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate have begun reauthorization activities with hearings and introduction of several related bills. Existing programs and participation requirements are subject to change in this process. Among the issues that management believes may be included in the final reauthorization bill are affordability and college costs; access, persistence and completion; better information for consumers; student loan programs; accreditation and oversight; innovation; and the burden of federal regulations. Additionally, funding for student financial assistance programs may be impacted during appropriations and budget actions. 21 Information about Particular U.S. Government Financial Aid Programs AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, Chamberlain, Carrington and DeVry University students participate in many U.S. and Canadian financial aid programs. Each of these programs is briefly described below. United States Federal Financial Aid Programs Students in the U.S. rely on three types of ED student financial aid programs under Title IV of the HEA. 1. Grants. Chamberlain Carrington and DeVry University undergraduate students may participate in the Federal Pell Grant and Federal Supplemental Education Opportunity Grant programs. Federal Pell Grants: These funds do not have to be repaid and are available to eligible undergraduate students who demonstrate financial need and who have not already received a baccalaureate degree. For the 2015-2016 school year, eligible students could receive Federal Pell Grants ranging from $588 to $5,775. Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG): This is a supplement to the Federal Pell Grant, and is only available to the neediest undergraduate students. Federal rules restrict the amount of FSEOG funds that may go to a single institution. The maximum individual FSEOG award is established by the institution but cannot exceed $4,000 per academic year. Educational institutions are required to supplement federal funds with a 25% matching contribution. Institutional matching contributions may be satisfied, in whole or in part, by state grants, scholarship funds (discussed below) or by externally provided scholarship grants. 2. Loans. AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, Chamberlain, Carrington and DeVry University students may participate in the Direct Subsidized, Unsubsidized and PLUS programs within the Federal Direct Loan Program. Carrington and DeVry University students may also participate in the Federal Perkins Student Loan Program. Direct Subsidized Loan: Awarded on the basis of student financial need, it is a low-interest loan (a portion of the interest is subsidized by the Federal government) available to undergraduate students with interest charges and principal repayment deferred until six months after a student no longer attends school on at least a half-time basis (the student is responsible for paying the interest charges during the six months after no longer attending school on at least a half-time basis for those loans with a first disbursement between July 1, 2012 and July 1, 2014). First time borrowers after July 1, 2013 are eligible for Direct Subsidized Loans only for 150% of the published length of their academic program. Loan limits per academic year range from $3,500 for students in their first academic year to $5,500 for students in their third or higher undergraduate academic year. Direct Unsubsidized Loan: A warded to students who do not meet the needs test or as an additional supplement to the Direct Subsidized Loan. These loans incur interest from the time funds are disbursed, but actual principal and interest payments may be deferred until six months after a student no longer attends school on at least a half-time basis. Unsubsidized Loan limits per academic year range from $6,000 for students in their first and second academic year to $7,000 in later years and increasing to $20,500 per academic year for graduate and professional program students. Additionally, a student without financial need may borrow an additional amount of Unsubsidized Loans up to the limit of the Direct Subsidized Loan at their respective academic grade level. The total Direct Loan aggregate borrowing limit for undergraduate students is $57,500 and $138,500 for graduate students, which is inclusive of Direct Subsidized Loan amounts borrowed as an undergraduate. PLUS and Grad PLUS Loans : Enables a graduate student or parents of a dependent undergraduate student to borrow additional funds to meet the cost of the students education. These loans are not based on financial need, nor are they subsidized. Interest begins to accrue, and repayment obligations begin, immediately after the loan is fully disbursed, but may be deferred until a student no longer attends school on at least a half-time basis. Graduate students and parents may borrow funds up to the cost of attendance which includes allowances for tuition, fees and living expenses. Both PLUS and Grad PLUS are subject to credit approval, which generally requires the borrower to be free of any current adverse credit conditions. A co-borrower may be used to meet the credit requirements. 22 Federal Perkins Loan: A low-interest loan available only to those students who demonstrate exceptional financial need with interest and principal repayment deferred until nine months after a student no longer attends school on at least a half-time basis. The maximum Federal Perkins Loan amount is established by the institution, but cannot exceed $5,500 per award year. Ongoing funding for this program is provided from collections on loans issued in previous years. When students repay principal and interest on these loans, that money goes to the pool of funds available for future loans to students at the same institution. The authorization of the Federal Perkins Loan Program is made separate in the HEA from the Direct Loan Programs and is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2017. 3. Federal Work-study. This program offers work opportunities, both on or off campus, on a part-time basis to students who demonstrate financial need. Federal Work-study wages are paid partly from federal funds and partly from qualified employer funds. State Financial Aid Programs Certain states, including Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Minnesota, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, offer state grant and loan assistance to eligible undergraduate students attending DeVry Group institutions. Canadian Government Financial Aid Programs Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada (other than students from the Northwest Territories, Nunavet or Quebec) are eligible for loans under the Canada Student Loans Program, which is financed by the Canadian government. Eligibility and amount of funding vary by province. Students attending AUC, RUSM, RUSVM or DeVry University online in the U.S. may be eligible for the Canada Student Loan Program. The loans are interest-free while the student is in school, and repayment begins six months after the student leaves school. Qualified students also may benefit from Canada Study Grants (designed for students whose financial needs and special circumstances cannot otherwise be met), tax-free withdrawals from retirement savings plans, tax-free education savings plans, loan repayment extensions and interest relief on loans. Information about Other Financial Aid Programs Private Loan Programs Some AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, Chamberlain, Carrington and DeVry University students rely on private (non-federal) loan programs for financial assistance. These programs are used to finance the gap between a students educational and living costs and their financial aid awards. The amount of the typical loan varies significantly according to the students enrollment and financial aid awards. DeVry Group estimates that approximately one-half of the borrowings under private loan programs are used by students to pay for non-educational expenses, such as room and board. Most private loans are approved using the students or a co-borrowers credit history. The cost of these loans varies, but in almost all cases will be more costly than the federal programs. The application process is separate from the traditional financial aid process. Student finance personnel at DeVry Groups degree-granting institutions coordinate these processes so that students generally receive assistance from the federal and state programs before utilizing private loans. DeVry Group does not maintain a preferred lender list, but does list all of the lenders that made private loans to DeVry Group students in the previous year and still offer loans to DeVry Group students. Tax-favored Programs The U.S. has a number of tax-favored programs aimed at promoting savings for future college expenses. These include state-sponsored 529 college savings plans, state-sponsored prepaid tuition plans, education savings accounts (formerly known as education IRAs), custodial accounts for minors, Hope and Lifetime Learning credits and tax deductions for interest on student loans. 23 Brazilian Government Financial Aid Programs DeVry Brasil students are eligible for loans under Brazils FIES public loan program ( Fundo de Financiamento Estudantil or Students Financing Fund), which is financed by the Brazilian government. DeVry Brasil also participates in PROUNI ( Programa Universidade para Todos or University for All Program), a Brazilian governmental program which provides federal tax incentives to educational institutions in exchange for providing scholarships to lower income undergraduate students. FIES targets students from low socio-economic backgrounds enrolled at private postsecondary institutions. Eligible students receive loans with below market interest rates that are required to be repaid after an 18-month grace period upon graduation. FIES pays participating educational institutions tax credits which can be used to pay certain federal taxes and social contributions. FIES repurchases excess credits for cash. FIES deducts from periodic payments to DeVry Brasil an average amount of 5.81% to cover administrative expenses (5.63%) and student defaults (0.18%). There is no additional cost to DeVry Brasil if students fail to pay their loans under the applicable rules. In fiscal year 2016, approximately 31% of DeVry Brasils degree-seeking students were financing their education under the FIES program, and approximately 29% of DeVry Brasil revenue was associated with the program. PROUNI promotes the offering of tuition discounts in private postsecondary education schools by granting federal tax incentives for the participating institutions. Discounts reduce tuition by either 50% or 100%. The percentage is driven by rules defined by the Brazilian government based on family monthly earnings. Neither DeVry Brasil nor its students receive direct funding from the federal government for the tuition discounts granted. Instead, DeVry Brasil reduces its income tax expense and its income tax liability for the amount of the discounts issued. As of June 30, 2016, approximately 11% of DeVry Brasils students have obtained scholarships under the PROUNI program. Specialized staff at DeVry Brasil review, interpret and establish procedures for compliance with regulations related to FIES and PROUNI. Both programs are required to be managed in accordance with government standards. Any regulatory violation can be the basis for disciplinary action, including suspension, limitation or termination of rights under the financial assistance program. In addition to the requirements that educational institutions must meet, student recipients of FIES and PROUNI must maintain satisfactory academic progress towards completion of their programs of study and an appropriate grade point average every semester. During fiscal year 2015, the Brazilian postsecondary education sector experienced significant funding changes. Government financial aid initiatives have impacted enrollment growth trends. The Brazilian government has stated that it is supportive of the FIES program, which is important in helping achieve the national goal of increasing the number of college graduates; however, changes enacted in calendar year 2015 to the FIES regulations have added restrictions limiting student eligibility for FIES funding and extended the governments time to disburse funding to participating institutions. These changes include reducing the number of new FIES contracts, decreasing the monthly maximum family income limits that students families must not exceed to qualify for a FIES loan, and adding minimum required entrance test scores in order to qualify for a FIES loan. Many educational groups and private institutions have experienced a decline in new student enrollment as a result of the new FIES regulations. In addition, the annual interest rate borrowers are charged increased from 3.4% to 6.5%. In 2016, the Brazilian government increased the maximum family income limits that students families must not exceed to qualify for loans from 2.5 to 3 times the minimum wage. This increased the population that qualifies for these FIES loans. DeVry Group-Provided Financial Assistance DeVry University undergraduate students are eligible for numerous DeVry Group-sponsored scholarships. Scholarship programs generally are designed to attract recent high school graduates and students enrolled at community colleges, with awards that range from $500 to $2,667 per term. DeVry University has also provided funds in the form of institutional grants to help those students most in need of financial assistance. 24 DeVry Groups institutional loan programs are available to students at its AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, Chamberlain, Carrington and DeVry University institutions. These loan programs are designed to assist students who are unable to completely cover educational costs by other means. These loans may be used for tuition, books and fees and are available only after all other student financial assistance has been applied toward those purposes. In addition, AUC, RUSM and RUSVM loans may be used for students living expenses. Interest charges accrue each month on the unpaid balance. Chamberlain, Carrington and DeVry University require that students begin repaying loans while they are still in school with a minimum payment level designed to prove their capability to repay and reduce the possibility of over borrowing and targeted to minimize interest being accrued on the loan balance. Payments may increase upon completing or departing the program. After a student leaves school, the student typically will have a monthly installment repayment plan. In addition, the Becker CPA Review Course can be financed through Becker with an 18-month term loan program. The institutional loans do not impose any origination fees, in general have a fixed rate of interest and most carry annual and aggregate maximums that ensure that they are only a supplemental source of funding and not relied on as the main source. Borrowers must be current in their payments in order to be eligible for subsequent disbursements. Borrowers are advised about the terms of the loans and counseled to utilize all federal funding options. DeVry Group institutional loans are carried on our balance sheet and there are no relationships with external parties that shift the risk away from DeVry Group. Employer-Provided Tuition Assistance Chamberlain and DeVry University students who receive employer tuition assistance may choose from several deferred tuition payment plans. Students eligible for tuition reimbursement plans may have their tuition billed directly to their employers or payment may be deferred until after the end of the session. Educational expenses paid by an employer on behalf of an employee generally are excludable from the employees income if provided under a qualified educational assistance plan. At present, the maximum annual exclusion is $5,250. Becker Professional Education Students taking the Becker Review courses are not eligible for federal or state financial aid, but many receive partial or full tuition reimbursement from their employers. Private loans are also available to students to help meet the program costs. In addition, Beckers CPA Review course can be financed through Becker under an 18-month term loan program. LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS Extensive and complex regulations govern all government grant, loan and work study programs in which AUC, RUSM, RUSVM, Chamberlain, Carrington, DeVry Brasil, DeVry University and their respective students participate. DeVry Group must comply with many rules and standards. Like all other educational institutions, DeVry Groups administration of these programs is regularly reviewed by various regulatory agencies and is subject to audit or investigation by other governmental authorities. Any violation could be the basis for penalties or other disciplinary action, including the suspension, limitation or termination of an institutions eligibility to participate in financial aid programs. U.S. Federal Regulations Our domestic postsecondary institutions are subject to extensive federal and state regulations. The HEA and the related ED regulations govern all higher education institutions participating in Title IV programs, and provide for a regulatory triad by mandating specific regulatory responsibilities for each of the following: The federal government through ED; The accrediting agencies recognized by ED; and State higher education regulatory bodies. To be eligible to participate in Title IV programs, a postsecondary institution must be accredited by an accrediting body recognized by ED, must comply with the HEA and all applicable regulations thereunder, and must be authorized to operate by the appropriate postsecondary regulatory authority in each state in which the institution operates, as applicable. 25 In addition to governance by the regulatory triad, there has been substantial and continuing increased focus in recent years by members of the U.S. Congress and federal agencies, including ED, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), on the role that proprietary educational institutions play in higher education. Congressional hearings and roundtable discussions have been held regarding various aspects of the education industry, and reports have been issued that are highly critical of proprietary institutions and include a number of recommendations to be considered by Congress in connection with the upcoming reauthorization of the HEA. In addition, in October 2014, ED formed an inter-agency task force involving multiple federal agencies and departments including the FTC, the U.S. Departments of Justice, Treasury and Veterans Affairs, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the SEC, and numerous state attorneys general, to coordinate activities and share information to protect students from unfair, deceptive and abusive acts and practices. In February 2016, ED established a Student Aid Enforcement Unit with four divisions. The Investigations Group will work to identify misconduct by schools. The Borrower Defense Group will provide legal analysis, support and advice on borrower defense claims. According to an ED press call on February 8, 2016, the Borrower Defense Group will also analyze claims to make determinations of injury, investigate institutions in connection with borrower defense claims and coordinate with federal and state agencies regarding those claims. The Administrative Actions and Appeals Service Group (AAASG) will impose administrative actions against schools. The Clery Group will oversee institutional compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Statistics Act. We expect that this challenging regulatory environment will continue for the foreseeable future. Changes in or new interpretations of applicable laws, rules, or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our eligibility to participate in Title IV programs, accreditation, authorization to operate in various states, permissible activities, and operating costs. The failure to maintain or renew any required regulatory approvals, accreditation, or state authorizations could have a material adverse effect on us. ED regulations regarding financial responsibility provide that, if any one of our Title IV-eligible institutions is unable to pay its obligations under its program participation agreement as a result of operational issues and/or an enforcement action, our other Title IV institutions, regardless of their compliance with applicable laws and regulations, would not be able to maintain their Title IV eligibility without assisting in the repayment of the first institutions Title IV obligations. As a result, even though DeVry Groups Title IV institutions are operated through independent entities, an enforcement action against one of our institutions could also have a material adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of DeVry Groups other institutions and DeVry Group as a whole and could result in the imposition of significant restrictions on the ability for DeVry Groups other institutions and for DeVry Group as a whole to operate. For further information, see A bankruptcy filing by us or by any of our Title IV institutions, or a closure of one of our Title IV institutions, would lead to an immediate loss of eligibility to participate in Title IV programs under subsection Risks Related to DeVry Groups Highly Regulated Industry in Part I, Item 1A Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. We have summarized the most significant regulatory requirements applicable to our domestic postsecondary operations. DeVry Group and DeVry University have been significantly impacted by these regulations and enforcement efforts and are currently facing multiple and related investigations and lawsuits arising from the enhanced scrutiny facing the proprietary education sector. For information regarding such pending investigations and litigation, and the potential impact such matters could have on our institutions or on DeVry Group, see in this Form 10-K: (1) Note 14: Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, (2) the subsection of Item 1A Risk Factors entitled Risks Related to DeVry Groups Highly Regulated Industry, and (3) the subsection of Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled Liquidity and Capital Resources. Eligibility and Certification Procedures The HEA specifies the manner in which ED reviews institutions for eligibility and certification to participate in Title IV programs. Every educational institution participating in the Title IV programs must be certified to participate and is required to periodically renew this certification. Institutions that violate certain ED Title IV regulations, including its financial responsibility and administrative capability regulations, may lose their eligibility to participate in Title IV programs or may only continue participation under provisional certification. Schools that do not meet financial responsibility requirements are required to submit a letter of credit equal to at least 10 percent of its prior fiscal year Title IV disbursements and submit to EDs heightened cash monitoring process. Provisional certification status carries fewer due process protections than full certification. As a result, ED may withdraw an institutions provisional certification more easily than if it is fully certified. Defense to Repayment Regulations Under the HEA, ED is authorized to specify in regulations which acts or omissions of an institution of higher education a borrower may assert as a defense to repayment of a loan made under the Federal Direct Loan Program. On June 16, 2016, ED published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking concerning these defenses and other matters, including certain circumstances under which ED may impose a fine, or limit, suspend, or terminate an institutions participation in Title IV programs (Defense to Repayment Regulations). EDs current regulations permit a borrower to assert a borrower defense to repayment of a Direct Loan if the institutions acts or omissions give rise to a cause of action against the institution under state law. The proposed regulations create a new federal standard for borrower defenses to repayment of Direct Loans, new limitation periods for such claims, and new processes for resolution of such claims. Under the proposed regulations, for Direct Loans first disbursed prior to July 1, 2017, ED would consider a borrower defense claim in accordance with the existing provisions, i.e., whether the institutions acts or omissions give rise to a cause of action against the institution under state law. For Direct Loans first disbursed on or after July 1, 2017, a borrower could assert a defense to repayment based on one of three types of claims: 26 Breach of contract, if the institution failed to perform its obligations under the terms of a contract with the student; Substantial misrepresentation, if the institution or its agents made a substantial misrepresentation on which the borrower reasonably relied when the borrower decided to attend or to continue attending the institution; or Judgment against the institution, if a governmental agency or the borrower as an individual or a member of a class obtained a non-default favorable judgment against the institution before a court or administrative agency for matters related to the making of a loan. The proposed regulations would amend the definition of misrepresentation to include omissions of information and to include statements with a likelihood or tendency to mislead under the circumstances. This definition would be adopted for purposes of the borrower defenses under the new regulation and for purposes of EDs substantial misrepresentation regulations for which ED may impose a fine, or limit, suspend, or terminate an institutions participation in Title IV programs. Under the proposed rules, a borrower asserting breach of contract would be able to assert a defense to repayment of amounts owed to the government at any time after the institutions breach and would be able to assert a right to recover amounts the government previously collected for a period not later than six years after the breach. A borrower asserting substantial misrepresentation would be able to assert a defense to repayment of amounts owed to the government at any time and would be able to assert a right to recover amounts the government previously collected not later than six years after the borrower discovers, or reasonably could have discovered, the information constituting the substantial misrepresentation. A borrower would be able to assert a defense to repayment or right to recover previously collected amounts based on a judgment against the institution at any time. The proposed regulations would set forth two sets of procedures for borrower defense claims, one for individual borrowers and one for groups of borrowers identified by ED. For claims filed by individual borrowers, at the conclusion of a fact-finding process, ED would issue a final decision as to the merit of the claims and any relief granted to the borrower. ED would be able to initiate a separate proceeding to collect from the institution the amount of relief granted to the borrower. The group process would allow ED to identify a group of borrowers with common borrower defense claims based on individual claims filed or other sources. After a hearing concerning a group claim, ED would collect from the institution any liability assessed against the institution for relief granted to the borrowers. The proposed regulations would also modify EDs financial responsibility standards to provide that an institution (other than a public institution) is not able to meet its financial or administrative obligations, and is therefore not financially responsible, if it is subject to one or more triggering events, in some cases during specified periods of time (e.g., during the current award year or during any of the three most recently completed award years), including if the institution: Is a defendant in certain lawsuits and other actions that have resulted in or could result in liability or monetary damages above a certain amount; Is required to pay a liability to or settles certain suits brought by a state, federal, or other oversight agency; Is required to repay ED for losses from borrower defense claims in an amount that exceeds a certain threshold; Is required by its accrediting agency to submit a teach-out plan based on a location or school closure and for certain reasons or was placed on probation, issued a show-cause order, or placed on similar accreditation status; Violates a provision in or defaults on a loan agreement with its creditor with the largest secured extension of credit to the institution; Fails in the previous fiscal year the 90/10 non-Title IV revenue requirement; Receives certain warnings from the SEC, discloses or is required to disclose certain judicial or administrative proceedings, or fails to file timely required reports; Enrolls in gainful employment programs deemed failing or in the zone greater than 50% of all Title IV recipients enrolled in gainful employment programs at the institution; Has a composite score of less than 1.5 and has a withdrawal of owners equity by any means, including by declaring a dividend, with certain exceptions; or Has a cohort default rate of 30% or greater for each of the two most recent official calculations. 27 In addition, under the proposed regulations, ED may determine that other events or conditions are reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on the institution and may at its discretion determine that an institution is not financially responsible on the basis of such discretionary trigger events, which include: Significant fluctuation in the amount of Title IV funds received by the institution; Citation by a state agency or authorizing agency for failing requirements; Failure of a financial stress test developed by ED; A non-investment grade bond or credit rating for the institution or its corporate parent; High annual dropout rates, as calculated by ED; and Any adverse event reported by the institution on a Form 8-K. If ED determines that an institution is not financially responsible because of one or more triggering events, the institution would be required to provide an irrevocable letter of credit in connection with each triggering event equal to, in most cases, at least 10 percent of the amount of federal student financial aid funds received by the institution for the past year. An institution with multiple triggering events would be required to post cumulative letters of credit. An institution that is required to provide a letter of credit would also be required to disclose to students information about the letter of credit. While the scope of the final regulations remains unclear, given the significant uncertainties in the regulations and the latitude provided to ED, it is possible that the final regulations may create significant liability or cause us to have to post a significant letter of credit that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition to the disclosure to students about the institutions letter of credit obligations, the proposed regulations include a loan repayment warning requirement applicable solely to proprietary institutions. If a proprietary institution has a loan repayment rate that is less than or equal to zero during any fiscal year, it would be required to deliver a warning to prospective and enrolled students and also to place a warning on its website, its promotional materials, and its advertisements. Under the proposed regulations, an institution will have a loan repayment rate less than or equal to zero if the median in the population of borrowers has not paid down any of his or her loan balance within five years after leaving school. The proposed regulations also would require schools to provide additional information to students regarding their right to obtain a closed school discharge in the circumstance of a closing school or location, and would provide for automatic discharges in certain situations. The disclosure provided to students would explain the benefits and consequences of obtaining a discharge if the school or location they are attending is scheduled to close, as compared to completing the program through a teach-out arrangement with another school. Under the proposed regulations, ED would also automatically grant a closed school discharge to borrowers attending a closed school or location who did not subsequently re-enroll in any Title IV eligible institution within three years after the date the school or location closed. DeVry Groups institutions regularly provide for the initiation and orderly closure of locations consistent with student demand. Lastly, the HEA currently provides for the discharge of a borrowers loan if the students eligibility to borrow was falsely certified by the school. The proposed regulations update the rules regarding false certification and the procedures for applying for a false certification discharge. We have submitted a comment letter on the regulations to ED. The effective date of any final regulations cannot be determined at this time, but final regulations promulgated by November 1, 2016 would likely become effective July 1, 2017. We are unable to predict what such final regulations may contain, the result of any other current or future rulemakings, or the impact of such rulemakings on our business. In addition to the outcome from any legal proceeding instituted by a private party or governmental authority, facts asserted in pending or future lawsuits or the outcome of any pending or future governmental inquiry, lawsuit or enforcement action described in this Form 10-K in (1) Note 14: Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements within