Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The risks and uncertainties described below may not be the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, may also become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be harmed. In that event, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline and you could lose a portion or all of your investment. Risk Factors Summary The below is a summary of principal risks to our business and risks associated with ownership of our stock. It is only a summary. You should read the more detailed discussion of risks set forth below and elsewhere in this report for a more complete discussion of the risks listed below and other risks. Additional risks, beyond those summarized below, set forth in this section, or discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may apply to our business, activities or operations as currently conducted or as we may conduct them in the future or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate. If we fail to effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to execute our business plan, adequately address competitive challenges or maintain our corporate culture, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed; We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects and to predict our future operating results, and therefore increases the risk of investment; If we fail to retain existing members or add new members, our revenue, operating results, financial condition, and business may be significantly harmed; If we do not continue to attract new customers, or if existing customers do not renew their subscriptions, renew on less favorable terms, or fail to purchase additional solutions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations; Our revenue is relatively concentrated within a small number of key customers, and the loss of one or more of such key customers could slow the growth rate of our revenue or cause our revenue to decline; We expect to face increasing competition in the market for our solutions; The COVID-19 pandemic and any other future pandemic, epidemic, or outbreak of an infectious disease may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations; If we are not able to maintain and enhance our reputation and brand recognition, our business, financial conditions, and results of operations will be harmed; Making business decisions that prioritize the interests of our members may adversely impact our financial results; We depend on our talent to grow and operate our business, and if we are unable to hire, integrate, develop, motivate, and retain our personnel, we may not be able to grow effectively; Failure to maintain, protect, or enforce our intellectual property rights could harm our business and results of operations; and The dual class structure of our common stock has the effect of concentrating voting control with our executive officers (including our Chief Executive Officer) and directors and their affiliates; this will limit or preclude your ability to influence corporate matters. If we are unable to adequately address these and other risks we face, our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects may be harmed. 14 Risks Related to Our Business If we fail to effectively manage our growth, we may be unable to execute our business plan, adequately address competitive challenges or maintain our corporate culture, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. Since launching our platform in fiscal 2012, we have experienced rapid growth and we continue to rapidly and significantly expand our operations. While we have experienced significant revenue growth in prior periods, it is not indicative of our future revenue growth. We expect our revenue growth rate will decline. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2022, or fiscal 2022, and fiscal 2021, our revenue grew by 66% and 78%, respectively, as compared to the revenue from the prior fiscal years. In addition, our full-time equivalent employee headcount has grown from 713 as of March 31, 2021 to 887 as of March 31, 2022. This expansion increases the complexity of our business and places significant strain on our management, personnel, operations, systems, technical performance, financial resources, and internal financial control and reporting functions. We may not be able to manage growth effectively, which could damage our reputation, limit our growth, and negatively affect our operating results. The growth and expansion of our business creates significant challenges for our management, operational, and financial resources. In the event of continued growth of our operations or in the number of our third-party relationships, our information technology systems and our internal