Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our Class A common stock. Our business, results of operations, financial condition, or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, financial condition, and prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. In addition, any worsening of the economic environment may exacerbate the risks described below, any of which could have a material impact on us. This situation continues to evolve, and additional impacts may arise that we are not currently aware of. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations Our business depends on our ability to retain and upgrade paying users, and any decline in renewals or upgrades could adversely affect our future results of operations. Our business depends upon our ability to maintain and expand our relationships with our users. Our business is subscription-based, and paying users are not obligated to and may not renew their subscriptions after their existing subscriptions expire. As a result, we cannot provide assurance that paying users will renew their subscriptions utilizing the same tier of our products or upgrade to premium offerings. Renewals and upgrades of subscriptions to our platform have fluctuated, we have experienced periods in which our number of paying users has declined, renewals and upgrades of subscriptions to our platform may continue to fluctuate or decline in any period or over time. Paying users may downgrade or not renew their subscriptions because of several factors, such as dissatisfaction with our products, support, pricing, mix of features, or user experience, a user no longer having a need for our products, the availability of competitive products that are, or are perceived to be, less expensive, shifts in the mix of monthly and annual subscriptions or the impact of macroeconomic trends or catastrophic events on our paying users and their willingness or ability to pay for subscriptions. Any decrease in renewals or downgrade of subscriptions to our platform could harm our ability to grow revenue. We encourage both basic and paying users to upgrade to our premium offerings by recommending additional features and through in-product prompts and notifications. We are focused on increasing recurring revenue and we believe that users that subscribe to our premium paid offerings demonstrate a propensity to retain and expand their deployments over time. We seek to expand within organizations through viral means by adding new users, having workplaces purchase additional products, or expanding the use of Dropbox into other departments within a workplace. We often see enterprise IT decision-makers adopting Dropbox after noticing substantial organic adoption by individuals and teams within the organization. However, if our paying users cancel their subscriptions or fail to renew, or if we fail to upgrade our paying users to premium offerings or expand within organizations, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. In addition, certain of our enterprise licenses have a large number of seat licenses. Loss of paying users due to non-renewal of contracts that cover a large number of seat licenses could negatively impact our number of paying users, causing the number of net new paying users to decline or be negative. Accordingly, an enterprise decision not to renew its license may have a material impact on our number of paying users and could also have a significant impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition as a result. Additionally, the timing of certain contract renewals that include a significant number of seat licenses may make any projections relating to our future paying users more uncertain. Although it is important to our business that our users renew their subscriptions after their existing subscriptions expire and that we expand our commercial relationships with our users, given the volume of our users, we may be unable to address any retention issues with specific users in a timely manner, which could harm our business. We have and may continue to see an increase in new customers opting for our monthly plans rather than our annual plans, including from users who upgrade to paid plans using mobile devices. As a result, to the extent more of our users subscribe to our paid plans through mobile devices or otherwise opt for monthly plans, subscription renewals may fluctuate or decline. Our future growth could be harmed if we fail to attract new users or convert registered users to paying users. We must continually add new users to grow our business beyond our current user base and to replace users who choose not to continue to use our platform. In particular, in order to grow our revenue, we must attract paying users and convert registered users to paying users. Historically, our revenue has been driven by our self-serve model, and we generate more than 90% of our revenue from self-serve channels. Our self-service channel revenue is driven by word-of-mouth referrals, 15 Table of Contents recommendations, and positive brand recognition in the marketplace. Any decrease in user satisfaction with our products or support could harm our brand, word-of-mouth referrals, and ability to grow. Additionally, many of our users initially access our platform free of charge. We strive to demonstrate the value of our platform to our registered users, thereby encouraging them to convert to paying users through in-product prompts and notifications, and time-limited trials of paid subscription plans. As of December 31, 2024, we served over 700 million registered users but only 18.22 million paying users. The actual number of unique users is lower than we report as one person may register more than once for our platform. As a result, we have fewer unique registered users that we may be able to convert to paying users. A majority of our registered users may never convert to a paid subscription to our platform, and failure to convert users to a paid subscription will restrict our ability to grow our revenue. We have experienced periods in which our number of paying users has declined, and our paying and registered user growth rates have declined and may continue to decline in the future as our pricing and packaging strategy and features (including data storage limits) change, our market penetration rates increase, and as a result of market conditions and increasing competition with respect to our current products. The availability of less expensive and bundled competitive products also has negatively impacted and may continue to negatively impact our user growth rate and our ability to convert registered users to paying users. The growth rate of our user base and the rate of conversion of registered users to paying users has declined in the past, and if such trends continue, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline. Furthermore, events or conditions that financially impact our registered users and other prospective paying users, such as macroeconomic factors, layoffs, inflation, fluctuating interest rates, or catastrophic events, have in the past caused and may cause in future periods these users to delay or reduce technology spending, which impacted, and may continue to impact our ability to convert registered users or otherwise attract new paying users, restricting our ability to grow our revenue. If we are unable to increase our paying user growth rates or to offset declines in the number of new paying users with increased revenue per paying user, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. We have in the past and may continue to experience privacy and data security breaches or incidents. Unauthorized parties have in the past gained access, and may in the future gain access, to systems, networks, or facilities used in our business through various means, including gaining unauthorized access to our systems, networks, or facilities, attempting to fraudulently induce our employees, users, or others into disclosing user names, passwords, or other sensitive information. For example, as previously disclosed in our Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 1, 2024, on April 24, 2024, we became aware of unauthorized access to the Dropbox Sign production environment. We continue to face risks relating to this incident, including harm to our reputation and customer relationships, and ongoing litigation, in the form of a consolidated class action lawsuit that has been filed in federal court in the Northern District of California, and regulatory scrutiny related to this incident, and we may discover other impacts or new related events may occur that could affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. Any unauthorized or inadvertent access to, or an actual or perceived security breach of or incident impacting, our systems, or networks, or facilities, or those of third parties on which we rely, or those of any businesses or technologies we have acquired, could result in an actual or perceived loss of, or unauthorized access to or disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, corruption, unavailability, or destruction of, our data or our users' content, regulatory investigations, proceedings, and orders, claims, demands, and litigation, indemnity obligations, damages, penalties, fines, and other costs in connection with actual and alleged contractual breaches, violations of applicable laws and regulations or other actual or asserted obligations, and other liabilities. Any such incident could also materially damage our reputation and market position and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition, including reducing our revenue, causing us to issue credits to users, negatively impacting our ability to accept and process user payment information, eroding our users trust in our services and payment solutions, subjecting us to costly user notification or remediation, harming our ability to retain users, harming our brand, or increasing our cost of acquiring new users. We maintain errors, omissions, and cyber liability insurance policies covering certain security and privacy damages. However, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred or that insurance will continue to be available to us on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Further, if a high-profile security breach or incident occurs with respect to another content collaboration solutions provider, our users and potential users could lose trust in the security of content collaboration solutions providers generally, which could adversely impact our ability to retain users or attract new ones. We have also incorporated AI technologies into certain products and expect to continue to incorporate additional AI technologies into our products and otherwise into our business and operations in the future. The use of AI technologies and the accelerated product development lifecycle for AI products may create additional or increase existing cybersecurity risks and may result in security or privacy incidents. Further, cybersecurity attacks may use AI technologies and increase the risk of security incidents. 16 Table of Contents The use of our platform involves the transmission, storage, and processing of user content, some of which may be considered personal, confidential, or sensitive information of users or their organizations. We also process, store and transmit our own data as part of our business and operations. This data may include personal, confidential, or sensitive information. We have previously faced and will continue to face security threats from malicious third parties that could obtain unauthorized access to our systems, infrastructure, and networks. We anticipate that these threats will continue to grow in scope and complexity over time. Although we have taken corrective actions in response to past incidents, and have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect the personal data of users and their organizations, protect our systems, prevent data loss, and prevent other security breaches and security incidents, these security measures have not fully protected our systems in the past and cannot guarantee security in the future. Emerging and evolving cybersecurity threats pose unique challenges and involve sophisticated threat actors. Computer malware, ransomware, viruses, social engineering (phishing attacks), denial of service or other attacks, employee theft or misuse and increasingly sophisticated network attacks have become more prevalent, particularly against cloud services. In this fast-changing threat environment, we are continuously assessing our security posture, including through the use of penetration testing and red team exercises, to identify gaps, threats, and vulnerabilities and, where we believe appropriate, we actively take additional and ongoing steps that are intended to strengthen our cybersecurity capabilities and mitigate the risk of a breach or incident. If we fail to respond appropriately to any identified gaps, threats or vulnerabilities, including by providing adequate funding and prioritizing strategic initiatives, or if we fail to adequately identify the gaps, threats or vulnerabilities, we face greater risk that an unauthorized party will obtain access to, or disrupt, our systems or networks or obtain access to data or content that we or third parties on which we rely store or otherwise process. Notwithstanding our efforts, we may fail to detect the existence of security breaches or incidents, including breaches or compromises of user content, and may be unable to prevent unauthorized access to user content. Malicious third parties might use techniques that we are unable to defend against to compromise and infiltrate our systems, infrastructure, and networks. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, and to disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target. They may originate from less regulated or remote areas around the world, or from state-sponsored actors, and the risks could also be elevated in connection with wars or other armed conflicts. If our security measures are breached or compromised or we, our systems, facilities or networks, or those of third parties on which we rely otherwise are subject to a security breach or incident, or our users content or other data is otherwise accessed, misused, modified, rendered unavailable, destroyed, or otherwise processed through unauthorized means, or if any such actions are believed to occur, our platform may be perceived as insecure, and we may lose existing users or fail to attract and retain new users. Moreover, public announcements concerning any cybersecurity-related incidents and steps we may take to respond to or remediate any such incidents could be perceived by securities analysts or investors to be negative, and such perception could, among other things, have an adverse effect on the price of our Class A common stock. We may rely on third parties when deploying our infrastructure, and in doing so, expose it to security risks outside of our direct control. We rely on outside vendors and contractors to perform services necessary for the operation of the business, and they may fail to adequately secure our user and company content data. Furthermore, despite our security measures, contractors and other individuals (some of whom our intelligence indicates are supported by nation states) have in the past gained, and in the future may gain, access to our systems. This risk may increase when vendors and contractors work remotely, including as part of our Virtual First model. Additionally, unapproved internal AI product usage or human error in the product development process each have the potential to result in disclosure of user or company content data. In addition, certain developers or other partners who create applications that integrate with our platform, may receive or store information provided by us or by our users through these applications. If these third parties or developers fail to adopt or adhere to adequate data security practices or the Dropbox Developer Terms and Conditions, or in the event of a breach or other compromise of their networks or systems, our data or our users' data may be improperly accessed, used, or disclosed. Third parties may attempt to compromise our employees and their privileged access into internal systems to gain access to accounts, our information, our networks, or our systems or those of third parties on which we rely. Employee error, malfeasance, errors in our systems and processes, or other errors in the storage, use, transmission, or other processing of personal information has in the past and could in the future result in an actual or perceived breach of user privacy or inadvertent disclosure of information, and such errors could adversely affect our business, brand, and reputation. For example, in the past an error in our use of a trusted third party to provide anti-malware and phishing services resulted in URLs embedded within content shared on Dropbox or uploaded to DocSend being made available to other paid subscribers and partners of that third party. However, only the URLs were sent - neither the document itself, nor any information within it, was shared. To address this, we asked the service provider to delete the affected URLs from its databases, and they have done so. While we are not aware of any URLs that were exploited by malicious actors, we cannot rule this out. As a standard practice, we complied with our notification obligations to applicable regulatory authorities. While we believe we have adequate systems in place to detect 17 Table of Contents and prevent integration of software and services that may compromise personal information, we can provide no assurances those systems will be effective in every case. Our rate of growth has declined in past periods. If we do not successfully execute our plan for future growth, our growth rate may continue to decline and we may experience negative growth. The rate of growth of our business and revenue has declined, and we expect to experience negative growth in the near term. If we are unable to execute on our new product initiatives and plans for growth in the future, we may be unable to reverse this trend. Our new product initiatives, including any AI-based initiatives, are intended to result in growth, but such initiatives require a period of investment and ultimately may not succeed on the timelines we expect or at all. Any additional revenue our new initiatives generate may be insufficient to offset the amounts we have invested or the declining rates of growth in other areas of our business. Efforts to grow and expand our business, including the introduction of new features and products, places a continuous significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. As we introduce new products and features, including AI features, and to the extent our user base and third-party relationships expand, our information technology systems, organizational structures, and internal