ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our final prospectus, dated March 22, 2018, and filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act). As discussed in the section titled Note About Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors under Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, on March 23, 2018, referred to as the Prospectus. Our fiscal year ends December 31. Overview Our modern economy runs on knowledge. Today, knowledge lives in the cloud as digital content, and Dropbox is a global collaboration platform where more and more of this content is created, accessed, and shared with the world. We serve more than 500 million registered users across 180 countries. Since our founding in 2007, our market opportunity has grown as weve expanded from keeping files in sync to keeping teams in sync. We believe the need for our platform will continue to grow as teams become more fluid and global, and content is increasingly fragmented across incompatible tools and devices. Dropbox breaks down silos by centralizing the flow of information between the products and services our users prefer, even if theyre not our own. By solving these universal problems, weve become invaluable to our users. The popularity of our platform drives viral growth, which has allowed us to scale rapidly and efficiently. Weve built a thriving global business with 11.5 million paying users. Our Subscription Plans We generate revenue from individuals, teams, and organizations by selling subscriptions to our platform, which serve the varying needs of our diverse customer base. Subscribers can purchase individual licenses through our Plus and Professional plans, or purchase multiple licenses through a Standard, Advanced, or Enterprise team plan. Each team represents a separately billed deployment that is managed through a single administrative dashboard. Teams must have a minimum of three users, but can also have more than tens of thousands of users. Customers can choose between an annual or monthly plan, with a small number of large organizations on multi-year plans. A majority of our customers opt for our annual plans. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of their respective terms and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. International customers can pay in U.S. dollars or a select number of foreign currencies. Our premium subscription plans, such as Professional and Advanced, provide more functionality than other subscription plans and are offered at higher prices per user. Our Standard and Advanced subscription plans offer robust capabilities for businesses, and the vast majority of Dropbox Business teams purchase our Standard or Advanced subscription plans. While our Enterprise subscription plan offers more opportunities for customization, companies can subscribe to any of these team plans for their business needs. Our Customers Our customer base is highly diversified, and in the period presented, no customer accounted for more than 1% of our revenue. Our customers include individuals, teams, and organizations of all sizes, from freelancers and small businesses to Fortune 100 companies. They work across a wide range of industries, including professional services, technology, media, education, industrials, consumer and retail, and financial services. Within companies, our platform is used by all types of teams and functions, including sales, marketing, product, design, engineering, finance, legal, and human resources. 28 Table of Contents Our Business Model Drive new signups We acquire users efficiently and at relatively low costs through word-of-mouth referrals, direct in-product referrals, and sharing of content. Anyone can create a Dropbox account for free through our website or app and be up and running in minutes. These users often share and collaborate with other non-registered users, attracting new signups into our network. Increase conversion of registered users to our paid subscription plans We generate over 90% of our revenue from self-serve channelsusers who purchase a subscription through our app or website. We actively encourage our registered users to become paying users through in-product prompts and notifications, time-limited free trials of paid subscription plans, email campaigns, and lifecycle marketing. Upgrade and expand existing customers We offer a range of paid subscription plans, from Plus and Professional for individuals to Standard, Advanced, and Enterprise for teams. We analyze usage patterns within our network and run hundreds of targeted marketing campaigns to encourage paying users to upgrade their plans. We prompt individual subscribers who collaborate with others on Dropbox to purchase our Standard or Advanced plans for a better team experience, and we also encourage existing Dropbox Business teams to purchase additional licenses or to upgrade to premium subscription plans. 29 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We review a number of operating and financial metrics, including the following key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Paying users We define paying users as the number of users who have active paid licenses for access to our platform as of the end of the period. One person would count as multiple paying users if the person had more than one active license. For example, a 50-person Dropbox Business team would count as 50 paying users, and an individual Dropbox Plus user would count as one paying user. If that individual Dropbox Plus user was also part of the 50-person Dropbox Business team, we would count the individual as two paying users. We have experienced growth in the number of paying users across our products, with the vast majority of paying users for the periods presented coming from our self-serve channels. The below table sets forth the number of paying users as of March 31, 2018 , December 31, 2017 , and March 31, 2017 . As of March 31, As of December 31, As of March 31, 2018 2017 2017 (In millions) Paying users 11.5 11.0 9.3 Average revenue per paying user We define average revenue per paying user, or ARPU, as our revenue for the period presented divided by the average paying users during the same period. For interim periods, we use annualized revenue, which is calculated by dividing the revenue for the particular period by the number of days in that period and multiplying this value by 365 days. Average paying users are calculated based on adding the number of paying users as of the beginning of the period to the number of paying users as of the end of the period, and then dividing by two. Our ARPU increased for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to an increased mix of sales towards our higher priced subscription plans, including our Dropbox Business Advanced Plan that launched in the first quarter of 2017, and favorable foreign currency fluctuations related to our sales that are denominated in foreign currencies. The below table sets forth our ARPU for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 . Three months ended March 31, 2018 2017 ARPU $ 114.30 $ 110.79 30 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measure In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we believe that free cash flow, or FCF, a non-GAAP financial measure, is useful in evaluating our liquidity. Free cash flow We define FCF as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We believe that FCF is a liquidity measure and that it provides useful information regarding cash provided by operating activities and cash used for investments in property and equipment required to maintain and grow our business. FCF is presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. FCF has limitations as an analytical tool, and it should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash provided by operating activities. Some of the limitations of FCF are that FCF does not reflect our future contractual commitments, excludes investments made to acquire assets under capital leases, and may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Our FCF declined for the three months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to higher employee compensation payments, which included the payment of our annual corporate bonus and employer payroll taxes related to the release of our two-tier RSUs in connection with our initial public offering ("IPO"), payments related to our brand marketing campaign, and higher capital expenditures related to our office and datacenter build-outs. These cash outflows were offset by increased subscription sales, as a majority of our paying users are invoiced in advance. We expect our FCF to fluctuate in future periods as we purchase infrastructure equipment to support our user base and invest in our new and existing office spaces, including our new corporate headquarters, to support our plans for growth. These activities, along with certain increased operating expenses as described below, may result in a decrease in FCF as a percentage of revenue in future periods. The following is a reconciliation of FCF to the most comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided by operating activities: Three months ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 61.8 $ 61.6 Capital expenditures (9.9 ) (5.1 ) Free cash flow $ 51.9 $ 56.5 31 Table of Contents Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from sales of subscriptions to our platform. Revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual term generally beginning on the date that our platform is made available to a customer. Our subscription agreements typically have monthly or annual contractual terms, although a small percentage have multi-year contractual terms. Our agreements are generally non-cancelable. We typically bill in advance for monthly contracts and annually in advance for contracts with terms of one year or longer. Amounts that have been billed are initially recorded as deferred revenue until the revenue is recognized. Our revenue is driven primarily by the number of paying users and the price we charge for access to our platform, which varies based on the type of plan to which a customer subscribes. We generate over 90% of our revenue from self-serve channels. No customer represented more than 1% of our revenue in the periods presented. Cost of revenue and gross margin Cost of revenue. Our cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the storage, delivery, and distribution of our platform for both paying users and free users, also known as Basic users. These costs, which we refer to as infrastructure costs, include depreciation of our servers located in co-location facilities that we lease and operate, rent and facilities expense for those datacenters, network and bandwidth costs, support and maintenance costs for our infrastructure equipment, and payments to third-party datacenter service providers. Cost of revenue also includes costs, such as salaries, bonuses, employer payroll taxes and benefits, travel-related expenses, and stock-based compensation, which we refer to as employee-related costs, for employees whose primary responsibilities relate to supporting our infrastructure and delivering user support. Other non-employee costs included in cost of revenue include credit card fees related to processing customer transactions, and allocated overhead, such as facilities, including rent, utilities, depreciation on leasehold improvements and other equipment shared by all departments, and shared information technology costs. In addition, cost of revenue includes amortization of developed technologies, professional fees related to user support initiatives, and property taxes related to the datacenters. During the first quarter of 2018, based on considerations including our asset replacement cycle and our ongoing infrastructure optimization efforts, we revisited the useful life estimates of certain infrastructure equipment. These optimization efforts include software efficiencies that allow us to utilize certain infrastructure equipment for longer periods of time. As a result, we determined that the useful lives of the impacted infrastructure equipment, which are depreciated through cost of revenue, should be increased from three to four years. We accounted for this as a change in estimate that will be applied prospectively, effective as of January 1, 2018. This change in depreciable life resulted in a reduction of $6.1 million in depreciation expense within cost of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018 . We plan to continue increasing the capacity and enhancing the capability and reliability of our infrastructure to support user growth and increased use of our platform. We expect that cost of revenue, excluding the impact of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation, will increase in absolute dollars in future periods. In addition, as a result of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation, our cost of revenue increased significantly in absolute dollars during the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to the completion of our initial public offering. Gross margin. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period based on the timing of additional capital expenditures and the related depreciation expense, or other increases in our infrastructure costs, as well as revenue fluctuations. As we continue to increase the utilization of our internal infrastructure, we generally expect our gross margin, excluding the impact of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation, to remain relatively constant in the near term and to increase modestly in the long term. Our gross margin decreased significantly on a sequential basis during the three months ended March 31, 2018 as a result of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation due to the completion of our initial public offering. Operating expenses Research and development . Our research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs for our engineering, product, and design teams, and allocated overhead. Additionally, research and development expenses include internal development-related third-party hosting fees. We have expensed almost all of our research and development costs as they were incurred. 32 Table of Contents We plan to continue to hire employees for our engineering, product, and design teams to support our research and development efforts. We expect that research and development costs will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and, excluding the impact of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation, vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses relate to both self-serve and outbound sales activities, and consist primarily of employee-related costs, brand marketing costs, lead generation costs, and allocated overhead. Sales commissions earned by our outbound sales team and the related payroll taxes, as well as commissions earned by third-party resellers that we consider to be incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a user, are deferred and amortized over an estimated period of benefit of five years. Additionally, sales and marketing expenses include non-employee costs related to app store fees and fees payable to third-party sales representatives. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our user base and increase our brand awareness, including marketing efforts to continue to drive our self-serve business model. The trend and timing of sales and marketing expenses will depend in part on the timing of marketing campaigns. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and, excluding the impact of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation, vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue. General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs for our legal, finance, human resources, and other administrative teams, as well as certain executives. In addition, general and administrative expenses include allocated overhead, outside legal, accounting and other professional fees, non-income based taxes, and contributions to the Dropbox Charitable Foundation. We expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses to support the growth of the Company as well as our transition to being a publicly traded company, which includes the recognition of stock-based compensation expense related to grants of restricted stock made to our co-founders. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and, excluding the impact of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation, vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue. As a result of certain stock-based compensation charges described in Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation, our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses increased significantly in absolute dollars and as a percentage of revenue during the three months ended March 31, 2018 due to the completion of our initial public offering. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net consists primarily of interest expense related to our capital lease obligations for infrastructure and our imputed financing obligation for our obligation to the legal owner of our previous corporate headquarters, partially offset by interest income earned on our money market funds classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of other non-operating gains or losses, including those related to ongoing subleases, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and realized gains and losses related to our short-term investments. Provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of U.S. federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. For the periods presented, the difference between the U.S. statutory rate and our effective tax rate is primarily due to the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets for federal, state, and certain foreign jurisdictions as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the deferred assets will be realized. Impact of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("2017 Tax Reform Act") The 2017 Tax Reform Act was enacted on December 22, 2017 and provides for significant changes to U.S. tax law. Among other provisions, the 2017 Tax Reform Act reduces the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% effective in 2018. The 2017 Tax Reform Act also contains a number of provisions that may impact us in future years. 33 Table of Contents Since ongoing guidance and accounting interpretation is expected in the 12 months following enactment, we have made certain provisional accounting estimates, as permitted under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, and continue to analyze our accounting policies in this area. The U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the 2017 Tax Reform Act will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation. As we complete our analysis of the 2017 Tax Reform Act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact the provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. The final accounting analysis will occur no later than one year from the date the 2017 Tax Reform Act was enacted. Adjustments made for the three months ended March 31, 2018 were not material. 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In millions) Revenue $ 316.3 $ 247.9 Cost of revenue (1) 120.6 93.5 Gross profit 195.7 154.4 Operating expenses: (1) Research and development 378.5 89.3 Sales and marketing 157.0 67.2 General and administrative 126.1 31.3 Total operating expenses 661.6 187.8 Loss from operations (465.9 ) (33.4 ) Interest expense, net (1.2 ) (4.2 ) Other income, net 3.4 4.8 Loss before income taxes (463.7 ) (32.8 ) Provision for income taxes (1.8 ) (0.3 ) Net loss $ (465.5 ) $ (33.1 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2018 2017 (In millions) Cost of revenue $ 37.8 $ 3.1 Research and development 282.9 21.8 Sales and marketing 72.4 7.7 General and administrative 93.4 6.2 Total stock-based compensation $ 486.5 $ 38.8 35 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our results of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue: Three months ended March 31, 2018 2017 (As a % of revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue (1) 38 % 38 % Gross profit 62 % 62 % Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 120 % 36 % Sales and marketing 50 % 27 % General and administrative 40 % 13 % Total operating expenses 209 % 76 % Loss from operations (147 )% (13 )% Interest expense, net % (2 )% Other income, net 1 % 2 % Loss before income taxes (147 )% (13 )% Provision for income taxes (1 )% % Net loss (147 )% (13 )% (1) Includes stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2018 2017 (As a % of revenue) Cost of revenue 12 % 1 % Research and development 89 % 9 % Sales and marketing 23 % 3 % General and administrative 30 % 3 % Total stock-based compensation 154 % 16 % Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 Revenue Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (In millions) Revenue $ 316.3 $ 247.9 $ 68.4 28 % Revenue increased $68.4 million or 28% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 . This increase was primarily due to a 23% increase in the number of paying users between periods. The average revenue per paying user also increased between periods primarily due to an increased mix of sales towards our higher priced subscription plans. 36 Table of Contents Cost of revenue, gross profit, and gross margin Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (In millions) Cost of revenue $ 120.6 $ 93.5 $ 27.1 29 % Gross profit 195.7 154.4 41.3 27 % Gross margin 62 % 62 % Cost of revenue increased $27.1 million or 29% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to a $34.7 million increase in stock-based compensation which included the achievement of the Performance Vesting Condition of our two-tier RSUs upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. These increases were offset by a $8.9 million decrease in our infrastructure costs due to continued infrastructure usage optimization efforts, which included a benefit due to the change in depreciable useful life of certain of our infrastructure equipment, which was effective on January 1, 2018. Our gross margin remained constant at 62% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to the recording of stock-based compensation from the achievement of the Performance Vesting Condition related to our two-tier RSUs upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO, offset by the decrease in our infrastructure costs and a 28% increase in our revenues, as described above. Research and development Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (In millions) Research and development $ 378.5 $ 89.3 $ 289.2 324 % Research and development expenses increased $289.2 million or 324% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to a $261.1 million increase in stock-based compensation which included the achievement of the Performance Vesting Condition of our two-tier RSUs upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. Further, the increase in research and development expense was due to an increase of $18.4 million in employee-related expenses excluding stock-based compensation, which was due to headcount growth and employer payroll taxes related to the release of our two-tier RSUs, and an increase of $7.9 million in overhead-related costs. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (In millions) Sales and marketing $ 157.0 $ 67.2 $ 89.8 134 % Sales and marketing expenses increased $89.8 million or 134% during three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to a $64.7 million increase in stock-based compensation which included the achievement of the Performance Vesting Condition of our two-tier RSUs upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. Sales and marketing expenses also increased due to $16.3 million in brand marketing costs, lead generation costs, and third-party sales representative fees. In addition, the increase in sales and marketing expense was due to an increase of $5.4 million in employee-related expenses excluding stock-based compensation, which was due to headcount growth and employer payroll taxes related to the release of our two-tier RSUs, and an increase of $3.7 million due to app store fees as a result of increased sales. 37 Table of Contents General and administrative Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 $ Change % Change (In millions) General and administrative $ 126.1 $ 31.3 $ 94.8 303 % General and administrative expenses increased $94.8 million or 303% during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to a $87.2 million increase in stock-based compensation which included the achievement of the Performance Vesting Condition of our two-tier RSUs and the performance-based vesting condition for the Co-Founder Grants upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. In addition, general and administrative expenses increased $4.1 million due to employee-related expenses, excluding stock-based compensation, which was due to headcount growth and employer payroll taxes related to the release of our two-tier RSUs. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net decreased $3.0 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to a decrease in interest expense of $1.9 million due to fewer assets acquired under capital leases. In addition, interest income from our money market funds and short-term investments increased by $1.1 million. Other income, net Other income, net decreased $1.4 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily due to a decrease of $1.9 million in foreign currency gains primarily related to monetary assets and liabilities denominated in euros. The decrease in other income, net was partially offset by an increase in sublease income. Provision for income taxes Provision for income taxes increased $1.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , primarily as a result of additional income in our profitable foreign entities and the release of our valuation allowance related to certain foreign deferred tax assets during the three months ended March 31, 2017. 38 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2018 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $665.3 million and short-term investments totaling $ 180.7 million , which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments consist primarily of cash, money market funds, U.S. treasury securities, corporate notes and obligations, U.S. agency obligations, commercial paper, and certificates of deposits. As of March 31, 2018 , we had $55.5 million of our cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries. We do not expect to incur material taxes in the event we repatriate any of these amounts. On March 27, 2018, upon the completion of our IPO and concurrent private placement, we received aggregate proceeds of $ 638.2 million , net of underwriters' discounts and commissions, before deducting offering costs of $ 6.9 million , net of reimbursements. On March 28, 2018, the underwriters exercised their option to purchase an additional 5,400,000 shares of our Class A common stock. This transaction closed on April 3, 2018, resulting in additional proceeds of $108.4 million, net of underwriters' discounts and commissions. These shares and proceeds are not reflected in the condensed consolidated financial statements as of and for the three months ended March 31, 2018. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through equity issuances, cash generated from our operations, and capital leases to finance infrastructure-related assets in co-location facilities that we directly lease and operate. We enter into capital leases in part to better match the timing of payments for infrastructure-related assets with that of cash received from our paying users. In our business model, some of our registered users convert to paying users over time, and consequently there is a lag between initial investment in infrastructure assets and cash received from some of our users. We expect to increase our use of capital leases in future periods to finance infrastructure equipment as certain assets reach the end of their useful lives. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations, the satisfaction of tax withholdings in connection with the settlement of restricted stock units, making principal payments on our capital lease obligations, and capital expenditures. In April 2017, we entered into a $600.0 million credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to the terms of the revolving credit facility, we may issue letters of credit under the revolving credit facility, which reduce the total amount available for borrowing under such facility. The revolving credit facility terminates on April 4, 2022. In February 2018, we amended our revolving credit facility to, among other things, permit us to make certain investments, enter into an unsecured standby letter of credit facility, and increase our standby letter of credit sublimit to $187.5 million. We also increased our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility from $600.0 million to $725.0 million. We may from time to time request increases in the borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility of up to $275.0 million, provided no event of default has occurred or is continuing or would result from such increase. Interest on borrowings under the revolving credit facility accrues at a variable rate tied to the prime rate or the LIBOR rate, at our election. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of the revolving credit facility, we are required to pay an annual commitment fee that accrues at a rate of 0.20% per annum on the unused portion of the borrowing commitments under the revolving credit facility. In addition, we are required to pay a fee in connection with letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility that accrues at a rate of 1.5% per annum on the amount of such letters of credit outstanding. There is an additional fronting fee of 0.125% per annum multiplied by the average aggregate daily maximum amount available under all letters of credit. The revolving credit facility contains customary conditions to borrowing, events of default, and covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make distributions to our holders or our subsidiaries equity interests, make investments, or engage in transactions with our affiliates. In addition, the revolving credit facility contains financial covenants, including a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and a minimum liquidity balance. We were in compliance with all covenants under the revolving credit facility as of March 31, 2018 . As of March 31, 2018 , we had no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility and an aggregate of $82.7 million in letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Our total available borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was $642.3 million as of March 31, 2018 . We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with our short-term investments, cash provided by operations and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our revenue growth rate, subscription renewal activity, billing frequency, the timing and extent of spending to support further infrastructure development and research and development efforts, the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in existing and new office spaces, such as our new corporate headquarters, the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations for the release of restricted stock units, the 39 Table of Contents expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the introduction of new product capabilities and enhancement of our platform, and the continuing market acceptance of our platform. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our cash flow activities were as follows for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2018 2017 Net cash provided by operating activities $ 61.8 $ 61.6 Net cash used in investing activities (193.1 ) (4.1 ) Net cash provided by (used in) used in financing activities 365.0 (59.8 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1.6 0.8 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 235.3 $ (1.5 ) Operating activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our paying users for subscriptions to our platform. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, infrastructure-related costs, and marketing expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities is impacted by our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization expenses and stock-based compensation, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by operating activities was $ 61.8 million , which mostly consisted of our net loss of $465.5 million , adjusted for stock-based compensation expense of $ 486.5 million and depreciation and amortization expenses of $ 35.9 million , and net cash inflow of $ 3.1 million from operating assets and liabilities. The inflow from operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to an increase of $ 26.7 million in deferred revenue from increased subscription sales, as a majority of our paying users are invoiced in advance. The increase in deferred revenue was offset by a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits of $ 26.2 million due to the payout of our corporate bonus. Our net cash from operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 also included a payment of $13.8 million of employer payroll taxes related to the release of our two-tier RSUs in connection with our IPO. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , was primarily due to a reduction of our net loss, as adjusted for stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization expenses, offset by a decrease in cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities is primarily impacted by purchases of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment, particularly for purchasing infrastructure equipment in co-location facilities that we directly lease and operate, and for making improvements to existing and new office spaces. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash used in investing activities was $193.1 million , which primarily related to purchases of short-term investments of $ 180.8 million and capital expenditures of $9.9 million related to our office and datacenter build-outs. The increase in cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , was primarily due to increases in purchases of short-term investments and an increase in capital expenditures for office and datacenter build-outs. Financing activities Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities is primarily impacted by repurchases of common stock to satisfy the tax withholding obligation for the release of restricted stock units (RSUs) and capital lease obligations for our infrastructure equipment. In 2017, we began releasing shares of common stock underlying vested one-tier RSUs, which generally have a service-based vesting condition over a four-year period and resulted in cash outflows to satisfy the employee tax withholding 40 Table of Contents obligation for those employees who elected to net share settle their awards. During the three months ended March 31, 2018 , the Performance Vesting Condition related to our two-tier RSUs was achieved in connection with our IPO, and as a result, we released the shares of common stock underlying vested two-tier RSUs, which significantly increased our cash outflows to satisfy the employee tax withholding obligation during the period. See Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation for additional information. For the three months ended March 31, 2018 , net cash provided by (used in) financing activities was $ 365.0 million , which primarily consisted of $ 638.2 million in net proceeds from the completion of our IPO and concurrent private placement. The proceeds were offset by $241.2 million for the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations for the release of restricted stock units and $29.8 million in principal payments against capital lease obligations. The increase in cash provided by financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2017 , was primarily due to the increase of $ 638.2 million in net proceeds from the completion of our IPO and concurrent private placement, partially offset by an increase in cash outflows of $ 217.2 million related to the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations for the release of two-tier restricted stock units. 41 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases for office space and datacenter operations, and capital leases for datacenter equipment. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments, as disclosed in the Prospectus. 42 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2018 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 43 Table of Contents Significant Impacts of Stock-Based Compensation Restricted Stock Units We have granted restricted stock units, or RSUs, to our employees and members of our Board of Directors under our 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, or 2008 Plan, our 2017 Equity Incentive Plan, or 2017 Plan and our 2018 Equity Incentive Plan, or 2018 Plan. We have two types of RSUs outstanding as of March 31, 2018 : One-tier RSUs, which have a service-based vesting condition over a four-year period. These awards typically have a cliff vesting period of one year and continue to vest quarterly thereafter. We recognize compensation expense associated with one-tier RSUs ratably on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Two-tier RSUs, which have both a service-based vesting condition and a liquidity event-related performance vesting condition. These awards typically have a service-based vesting period of four years with a cliff vesting period of one year and continue to vest monthly thereafter. Upon satisfaction of the Performance Vesting Condition, these awards will vest quarterly. The Performance Vesting Condition is satisfied on the earlier of (i) an acquisition or change in control of the Company or (ii) the earlier of (a) six months after our initial public offering or (b) March 15 of the year following our initial public offering. Our Board of Directors approved the acceleration of the Performance Vesting Condition for which the service condition was satisfied, to occur upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO, which was on March 22, 2018. Our last grant date for two-tier RSUs was May 2015. We recognize compensation expense associated with two-tier RSUs using the accelerated attribution method over the requisite service period. Upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO, which was March 22, 2018, the Performance Vesting Condition associated with our two-tier RSUs was satisfied. As a result, we recognized stock-based compensation related to our two-tier RSUs using the accelerated attribution method, with a cumulative catch-up in the amount of $418.7 million attributable to service provided prior to such effective date. As of March 31, 2018 , the unamortized stock-based compensation related to our two-tier RSUs was $2.6 million, which will be recognized if the requisite service is provided over a remaining weighted average period of 0.6 years. Co-Founder Grants In December 2017, the Board of Directors approved a grant to our co-founders of restricted stock awards, or RSAs, with respect to 14.7 million shares of Class A Common Stock in the aggregate, or collectively, the Co-Founder Grants, of which 10.3 million RSAs were granted to Mr. Houston, the Companys co-founder and Chief Executive Officer, and 4.4 million RSAs were granted to Mr. Ferdowsi, the Companys co-founder and Director. These Co-Founder Grants have service-based, market-based, and performance-based vesting conditions. While the Co-Founder Grants have certain stockholder rights prior to their vesting, such as the right to vote the shares with the other holders of our Class A common stock, the Co-Founder Grants will be excluded from Class A common stock issued and outstanding until the satisfaction of these vesting conditions. The Co-Founder Grants are eligible to vest over the ten-year period following the date the Companys shares of Class A common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market in connection with our IPO, which occurred on March 23, 2018. The Co-Founder Grants comprise nine tranches that are eligible to vest based on the achievement of stock price goals, or, each, a Stock Price Target, measured over a consecutive thirty-day trading period during the Performance Period, as follows: Company Stock Price Target Shares Eligible to Vest for Mr. Houston Shares Eligible to Vest for Mr. Ferdowsi $30.00 2,066,667 880,000 $37.50 1,033,334 440,000 $45.00 1,033,334 440,000 $52.50 1,033,333 440,000 $60.00 1,033,333 440,000 $67.50 1,033,333 440,000 $75.00 1,033,333 440,000 $82.50 1,033,333 440,000 $90.00 1,033,333 440,000 44 Table of Contents The Performance Period begins on the first trading day following the later of (a) the expiration of the lock-up period following the first date the Companys shares are traded on an established national securities exchange or automated quotation system, or the IPO Date, and (b) January 1, 2019, and ends on the earliest to occur of: (i) the date on which all shares subject to the Co-Founder Grants vest, (ii) the date the applicable co-founder ceases to satisfy the service-based vesting condition, (iii) the tenth anniversary of the IPO Date, and (iv) the occurrence of an acquisition of the Company prior to the IPO Date. During the first four years of the Performance Period, no more than 20% of the shares subject to each Co-Founder Grant would be eligible to vest in any calendar year. After the first four years, all shares are eligible to vest based on the achievement of the Company Stock Price Targets. The Co-Founder Grants contain an implied performance-based vesting condition that was satisfied on the date of our IPO. We estimated the grant date fair value of the Co-Founder Grants using a model based on multiple stock price paths developed through the use of a Monte Carlo simulation that incorporates into the valuation the possibility that the Stock Price Targets may not be satisfied. The average grant date fair value of each Co-Founder Grant was estimated to be $10.60 per share, and we will recognize total stock-based compensation expense of $156.2 million over the requisite service period of each tranche, which ranged from 2.9 to 6.9 years, using the accelerated attribution method. If the Stock Price Targets are met sooner than the derived service period, we will adjust our stock-based compensation to reflect the cumulative expense associated with the vested awards. We will recognize stock-based compensation expense if the requisite service period is provided, regardless of whether the market conditions are achieved. The performance vesting condition for the Co-Founder Grants was satisfied on the date that our shares of Class A common stock began trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market in connection with our IPO. We recognized the cumulative unrecognized expense of our Co-Founder Grants of $10.6 million, using the accelerated attribution method, which increased our general and administrative expenses. Award Modifications During 2017, our Board of Directors voted to approve a modification of vesting schedules for certain unvested one-tier and two-tier RSUs to align the vesting schedules for all RSUs to vest once per quarter. The modification was effective February 15, 2018, which resulted in accelerated vesting of impacted RSUs that had met their service requirement as of that date. As a result, we recognized an incremental $10.0 million in stock-based compensation during the three months ended March 31, 2018 related to these modified RSUs. We do not expect to record incremental stock-based compensation related to this modification in future periods. See Note 1, Description of the Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 8, Stockholders Equity to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for more information regarding our equity awards. 45 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Judgments There have been no material changes to our critical accounting policies and significant judgments as compared to the critical accounting policies and estimates disclosed in the Prospectus. 46 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Description of the Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 47 Table of Contents