ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K. As discussed in the section titled Note About Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to these differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors under Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our fiscal year ends December 31. Overview Our modern economy runs on knowledge. Today, knowledge lives in the cloud as digital content, and Dropbox is a global collaboration platform where more and more of this content is created, accessed, and shared with the world. We serve more than 500 million registered users across 180 countries. Since our founding in 2007, our market opportunity has grown as weve expanded from keeping files in sync to keeping teams in sync. We believe the need for our platform will continue to grow as teams become more fluid and global, and content is increasingly fragmented across incompatible tools and devices. Dropbox breaks down silos by centralizing the flow of information between the products and services our users prefer, even if theyre not our own. By solving these universal problems, weve become invaluable to our users. The popularity of our platform drives viral growth, which has allowed us to scale rapidly and efficiently. Weve built a thriving global business with 13.2 million paying users. Our Subscription Plans We generate revenue from individuals, teams, and organizations by selling subscriptions to our platform, which serve the varying needs of our diverse customer base. Subscribers can purchase individual licenses through our Plus and Professional plans, or purchase multiple licenses through a Standard, Advanced, or Enterprise team plan. Each team represents a separately billed deployment that is managed through a single administrative dashboard. Teams must have a minimum of three users, but can also have more than tens of thousands of users. Customers can choose between an annual or monthly plan, with a small number of large organizations on multi-year plans. A majority of our customers opt for our annual plans. We typically bill our customers at the beginning of their respective terms and recognize revenue ratably over the term of the subscription period. International customers can pay in U.S. dollars or a select number of foreign currencies. Our premium subscription plans, such as Professional and Advanced, provide more functionality than other subscription plans and have higher per user prices. Our Standard and Advanced subscription plans offer robust capabilities for businesses, and the vast majority of Dropbox Business teams purchase our Standard or Advanced subscription plans. While our Enterprise subscription plan offers more opportunities for customization, companies can subscribe to any of these team plans for their business needs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we acquired HelloSign, an e-signature and document workflow platform. The acquisition of HelloSign expands our content collaboration capabilities to include additional business-critical workflows. HelloSign has several product lines, and the pricing and revenue generated from each product line varies, with some product lines priced based on the number of licenses purchased (similar to Dropbox plans), while others are priced based on a customers transaction volume. Depending on the product purchased, teams must have a minimum of a certain number of licenses, but can also have hundreds of users. Customers can choose between an annual or monthly plan, with a small number of large organizations on multi-year plans. HelloSign also typically bills customers at the beginning of their respective terms and recognizes revenue ratably over the subscription period. HelloSign primarily sells within the United States and sells only in U.S. dollars . Our Customers Our customer base is highly diversified, and in the period presented, no customer accounted for more than 1% of our revenue. Our customers include individuals, teams, and organizations of all sizes, from freelancers and small businesses to Fortune 100 companies. They work across a wide range of industries, including professional services, technology, media, 35 Table of Contents education, industrials, consumer and retail, and financial services. Within companies, our platform is used by all types of teams and functions, including sales, marketing, product, design, engineering, finance, legal, and human resources. 36 Table of Contents Our Business Model Drive new signups We acquire users efficiently and at relatively low costs through word-of-mouth referrals, direct in-product referrals, and sharing of content. Anyone can create a Dropbox account for free through our website or app and be up and running in minutes. These users often share and collaborate with other non-registered users, attracting new signups into our network. Increase conversion of registered users to our paid subscription plans We generate over 90% of our revenue from self-serve channelsusers who purchase a subscription through our app or website. We actively encourage our registered users to become paying users through in-product prompts and notifications, time-limited free trials of paid subscription plans, email campaigns, and lifecycle marketing. Upgrade and expand existing customers We offer a range of paid subscription plans, from Plus and Professional for individuals to Standard, Advanced, and Enterprise for teams. We analyze usage patterns within our network and run hundreds of targeted marketing campaigns to encourage paying users to upgrade their plans. We prompt individual subscribers who collaborate with others on Dropbox to purchase our Standard or Advanced plans for a better team experience, and we also encourage existing Dropbox Business teams to purchase additional licenses or to upgrade to premium subscription plans. 37 Table of Contents Key Business Metrics We review a number of operating and financial metrics, including the following key metrics to evaluate our business, measure our performance, identify trends affecting our business, formulate business plans, and make strategic decisions. Paying users We define paying users as the number of users who have active paid licenses for access to our platform as of the end of the period. One person would count as multiple paying users if the person had more than one active license. For example, a 50-person Dropbox Business team would count as 50 paying users, and an individual Dropbox Plus user would count as one paying user. If that individual Dropbox Plus user was also part of the 50-person Dropbox Business team, we would count the individual as two paying users. We have experienced growth in the number of paying users across our products, with the majority of paying users for the periods presented coming from our self-serve channels. We acquired HelloSign in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. HelloSign has several product lines and the pricing and revenue generated from each product line varies, with some product lines priced based on the number of licenses purchased (similar to Dropbox plans), while others are priced based on a customers transaction volume. For purposes of HelloSign results, we include as paying users either (i) the number of users who have active paid licenses for access to the HelloSign platform as of the period end for those products that are priced based on the number of licenses purchased (which is the same method we use to evaluate existing Dropbox plans) or (ii) the number of customers for those products that are priced based on transaction volumes. The below table sets forth the number of paying users as of March 31, 2019 , December 31, 2018 , and March 31, 2018 . As of March 31, 2019 December 31, 2018 March 31, 2018 (In millions) Paying users 13.2 12.7 11.5 Average revenue per paying user We define average revenue per paying user, or ARPU, as our revenue for the period presented divided by the average paying users during the same period. For interim periods, we use annualized revenue, which is calculated by dividing the revenue for the particular period by the number of days in that period and multiplying this value by 365 days. Average paying users are calculated based on adding the number of paying users as of the beginning of the period to the number of paying users as of the end of the period, and then dividing by two. In 2017, we launched our Dropbox Business Advanced plan. At the time of launch, we grandfathered existing Dropbox Business teams into the Dropbox Business Advanced plan at their legacy price. During the second quarter of 2018, a significant portion of those grandfathered teams renewed at a higher price. As a result of these renewals, and combined with an increased mix of sales towards our higher-priced subscription plans, we experienced an increase in our average revenue per paying user for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . The below table sets forth our ARPU for the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 . Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 ARPU $ 121.04 $ 114.30 38 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measure In addition to our results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we believe that free cash flow, or FCF, a non-GAAP financial measure, is useful in evaluating our liquidity. Free cash flow We define FCF as GAAP net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We believe that FCF is a liquidity measure and that it provides useful information regarding cash provided by operating activities and cash used for investments in property and equipment required to maintain and grow our business. FCF is presented for supplemental informational purposes only and should not be considered a substitute for financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. FCF has limitations as an analytical tool, and it should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of other GAAP financial measures, such as net cash provided by operating activities. Some of the limitations of FCF are that FCF does not reflect our future contractual commitments, excludes investments made to acquire assets under finance leases, and may be calculated differently by other companies in our industry, limiting its usefulness as a comparative measure. Our FCF decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to higher capital expenditures related to our office and datacenter build-outs and an increase in our annual bonus payout. The decrease was partially offset by an increase in cash provided by operating activities, which was driven by increased subscription sales, as a majority of our paying users are invoiced in advance. We expect our FCF to fluctuate in future periods as we purchase infrastructure equipment to support our user base and invest in our new and existing office spaces, including our new corporate headquarters, to support our plans for growth. These activities, along with certain increased operating expenses as described below, may result in a decrease in FCF as a percentage of revenue in future periods. The following is a reconciliation of FCF to the most comparable GAAP measure, net cash provided by operating activities: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 63.2 $ 61.8 Capital expenditures (29.7 ) (9.9 ) Free cash flow $ 33.5 $ 51.9 39 Table of Contents Components of Our Results of Operations Revenue We generate revenue from sales of subscriptions to our platform. Revenue is recognized ratably over the related contractual term generally beginning on the date that our platform is made available to a customer. Our subscription agreements typically have monthly or annual contractual terms, although a small percentage have multi-year contractual terms. Our agreements are generally non-cancelable. We typically bill in advance for monthly contracts and annually in advance for contracts with terms of one year or longer. Amounts that have been billed are initially recorded as deferred revenue until the revenue is recognized. Our revenue is driven primarily by the number of paying users and the price we charge for access to our platform, which varies based on the type of plan to which a customer subscribes. We generate over 90% of our revenue from self-serve channels. No customer represented more than 1% of our revenue in the periods presented. Cost of revenue and gross margin Cost of revenue. Our cost of revenue consists primarily of expenses associated with the storage, delivery, and distribution of our platform for both paying users and free users, also known as Basic users. These costs, which we refer to as infrastructure costs, include depreciation of our servers located in co-location facilities that we lease and operate, rent and facilities expense for those datacenters, network and bandwidth costs, support and maintenance costs for our infrastructure equipment, and payments to third-party datacenter service providers. Cost of revenue also includes costs, such as salaries, bonuses, employer payroll taxes and benefits, travel-related expenses, and stock-based compensation, which we refer to as employee-related costs, for employees whose primary responsibilities relate to supporting our infrastructure and delivering user support. Other non-employee costs included in cost of revenue include credit card fees related to processing customer transactions, and allocated overhead, such as facilities, including rent, utilities, depreciation on leasehold improvements and other equipment shared by all departments, and shared information technology costs. In addition, cost of revenue includes amortization of developed technologies, professional fees related to user support initiatives, and property taxes related to the datacenters. We plan to continue increasing the capacity and enhancing the capability and reliability of our infrastructure to support user growth and increased use of our platform. We expect that cost of revenue will increase in absolute dollars in future periods. Gross margin. Gross margin is gross profit expressed as a percentage of revenue. Our gross margin may fluctuate from period to period based on the timing of additional capital expenditures and the related depreciation expense, or other increases in our infrastructure costs, as well as revenue fluctuations. As we continue to increase the utilization of our internal infrastructure, we generally expect our gross margin, to remain relatively constant in the near term and to increase modestly in the long term. Operating expenses Research and development . Our research and development expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs for our engineering, product, and design teams, compensation expenses related to key personnel from acquisitions and allocated overhead. Additionally, research and development expenses include internal development-related third-party hosting fees. We have expensed almost all of our research and development costs as they were incurred. We plan to continue to hire employees for our engineering, product, and design teams to support our research and development efforts. We expect that research and development costs will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue. Sales and marketing . Our sales and marketing expenses relate to both self-serve and outbound sales activities, and consist primarily of employee-related costs, brand marketing costs, lead generation costs, sponsorships and allocated overhead. Sales commissions earned by our outbound sales team and the related payroll taxes, as well as commissions earned by third-party resellers that we consider to be incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a user, are deferred and are typically amortized over an estimated period of benefit of five years. Additionally, sales and marketing expenses include non-employee costs related to app store fees, fees payable to third-party sales representatives and amortization of acquired customer relationships. We plan to continue to invest in sales and marketing to grow our user base and increase our brand awareness, including marketing efforts to continue to drive our self-serve business model. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will increase 40 Table of Contents in absolute dollars in future periods and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue. The trend and timing of sales and marketing expenses will depend in part on the timing of marketing campaigns. General and administrative . Our general and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs for our legal, finance, human resources, and other administrative teams, as well as certain executives. In addition, general and administrative expenses include allocated overhead, outside legal, accounting and other professional fees, and non-income based taxes. We expect to incur additional general and administrative expenses to support the growth of the Company. General and administrative expenses include the recognition of stock-based compensation expense related to grants of restricted stock made to our co-founders. We expect that general and administrative expenses will increase in absolute dollars in future periods and vary from period to period as a percentage of revenue. Interest income (expense), net Interest income (expense), net consists primarily of interest income earned on our money market funds classified as cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, partially offset by interest expense related to our finance lease obligations for infrastructure and our imputed financing obligation for our liability to the legal owner of our previous corporate headquarters. We no longer incur interest expense for our imputed financing obligation as of the fourth quarter of 2018, due to the termination of our master lease for our previous corporate headquarters in the third quarter of 2018. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net consists of other non-operating gains or losses, including those related to lease arrangements, which include ongoing subleases. Other income (expense), net also includes foreign currency transaction gains and losses, and realized gains and losses related to our short-term investments. Benefit from (provision for) income taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of U.S. federal and state income taxes and income taxes in certain foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. For the periods presented, the difference between the U.S. statutory rate and our effective tax rate is primarily due to the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets. Our effective tax rate is also impacted by earnings realized in foreign jurisdictions with statutory tax rates lower than the federal statutory tax rate. We maintain a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets for federal, state, and certain foreign jurisdictions as we have concluded that it is not more likely than not that the deferred assets will be realized. 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In millions) Revenue $ 385.6 $ 316.3 Cost of revenue (1) 98.4 120.6 Gross profit 287.2 195.7 Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 150.0 378.5 Sales and marketing 101.5 157.0 General and administrative 57.0 126.1 Total operating expenses 308.5 661.6 Loss from operations (21.3 ) (465.9 ) Interest income (expense), net 3.7 (1.2 ) Other income, net 4.2 3.4 Loss before income taxes (13.4 ) (463.7 ) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 5.7 (1.8 ) Net loss $ (7.7 ) $ (465.5 ) (1) Includes stock-based compensation as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In millions) Cost of revenue $ 3.0 $ 37.8 Research and development 30.5 282.9 Sales and marketing 7.1 72.4 General and administrative 15.0 93.4 Total stock-based compensation (2) $ 55.6 $ 486.5 (2) Upon the effectiveness of the registration statement for our initial public offering, which was March 22, 2018, the liquidity event-related performance vesting condition associated with our two-tier RSUs was satisfied. As a result, during the three months ended March 31, 2018 , we recognized the cumulative unrecognized stock-based compensation of $418.7 million. See Note 1, "Description of the Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. 42 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our results of operations for each of the periods presented as a percentage of revenue: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 (As a % of revenue) Revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue (1) 26 38 Gross profit 74 62 Operating expenses (1) : Research and development 39 120 Sales and marketing 26 50 General and administrative 15 40 Total operating expenses 80 209 Loss from operations (6 ) (147 ) Interest income (expense), net 1 Other income, net 1 1 Loss before income taxes (3 ) (147 ) Benefit from (provision for) income taxes 1 (1 ) Net loss (2 )% (147 )% (1) Includes stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue as follows: Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 (As a % of revenue) Cost of revenue 1 % 12 % Research and development 8 89 Sales and marketing 2 23 General and administrative 4 30 Total stock-based compensation 14 % 154 % 43 Table of Contents Comparison of the three months ended March 31, 2019 and 2018 Revenue Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (In millions) Revenue $ 385.6 $ 316.3 $ 69.3 22 % Revenue increased $69.3 million or 22% during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to a 15% increase in the number of paying users between periods. The average revenue per paying user also increased between periods primarily due to an increased mix of sales towards our higher-priced subscription plans, including renewals of grandfathered teams on our Dropbox Business Advanced Plan at higher prices, as discussed in "Key Business Metrics". Cost of revenue, gross profit, and gross margin Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (In millions) Cost of revenue $ 98.4 $ 120.6 $ (22.2 ) (18 )% Gross profit 287.2 195.7 91.5 47 % Gross margin 74 % 62 % Cost of revenue decreased $22.2 million or 18% during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to a decrease of $34.8 million in stock-based compensation, which included expense recognized due to the achievement of the performance vesting condition of our two-tier RSUs upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. This decrease was offset by increases of $6.8 million in infrastructure expenses, $1.9 million in credit card transaction fees due to higher sales and professional fees for user support, $1.9 million in overhead-related costs, and $1.5 million in employee related expenses due to headcount growth. Our gross margin increased 12% during the three months ended March 31, 2019 compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to a decrease in our cost of revenue primarily due to a decrease in stock-based compensation described above and a 22% increase in our revenue during the period. Research and development Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (In millions) Research and development $ 150.0 $ 378.5 $ (228.5 ) (60 )% Research and development expenses decreased $228.5 million or 60% during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to a decrease of $252.4 million in stock-based compensation, which included expense recognized due to the achievement of the performance vesting condition of our two-tier RSUs upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. This decrease was offset by increases of $10.4 million in employee-related expenses due to headcount growth and $9.7 million in overhead-related costs, which includes facilities related costs for both our current and future corporate headquarters. Sales and marketing 44 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (In millions) Sales and marketing $ 101.5 $ 157.0 $ (55.5 ) (35 )% Sales and marketing expenses decreased $55.5 million or 35% during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to a decrease of $65.3 million in stock-based compensation, which included expense recognized due to the achievement of the performance vesting condition of our two-tier RSUs upon the effectiveness of the registration statement related to our IPO. This decrease was offset by increases of $5.1 million in employee-related expenses due to headcount growth and $4.7 million in overhead-related costs, which includes facilities related costs for both our current and future corporate headquarters. General and administrative Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change (In millions) General and administrative $ 57.0 $ 126.1 $ (69.1 ) (55 )% General and administrative expenses decreased $69.1 million or 55% during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to a decrease of $78.5 million in stock-based compensation, which included expense recognized due to the achievement of the performance vesting condition of our two-tier RSUs, and the performance-based vesting condition for the Co-Founder Grants in connection with our IPO. This decrease was offset by increases of $3.8 million in legal-related and acquisition expenses and $2.4 million in non-income based taxes. Interest income (expense), net Interest income (expense), net increased $4.9 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to an increase in interest income from our money market funds and short-term investments of $4.8 million. Other income, net Other income, net increased $0.8 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to an increase of $3.0 million of gains related to disposal of infrastructure assets, offset by a decrease of $1.8 million in sublease income. Benefit from (provision for) income taxes Provision for income taxes decreased $7.5 million during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , primarily due to the tax benefit from our acquisition of HelloSign. 45 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2019 , we had cash and cash equivalents of $359.2 million and short-term investments of $ 556.0 million , which were held for working capital purposes. Our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments consist primarily of cash, money market funds, corporate notes and obligations, U.S. treasury securities, U.S. agency obligations, commercial paper, and certificates of deposits. As of March 31, 2019 , we had $143.3 million of our cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries. We do not expect to incur material taxes in the event we repatriate any of these amounts. Since our inception, we have financed our operations primarily through equity issuances, cash generated from our operations, and finance leases to finance infrastructure-related assets in co-location facilities that we directly lease and operate. We enter into finance leases in part to better match the timing of payments for infrastructure-related assets with that of cash received from our paying users. In our business model, some of our registered users convert to paying users over time, and consequently there is a lag between initial investment in infrastructure assets and cash received from some of our users. Our principal uses of cash in recent periods have been funding our operations, purchases of short-term investments, the satisfaction of tax withholdings in connection with the settlement of restricted stock units, making principal payments on our finance lease obligations, and capital expenditures. In April 2017, we entered into a $600.0 million credit facility with a syndicate of financial institutions. Pursuant to the terms of the revolving credit facility, we may issue letters of credit under the revolving credit facility, which reduce the total amount available for borrowing under such facility. The revolving credit facility terminates on April 4, 2022. In February 2018, we amended our revolving credit facility to, among other things, permit us to make certain investments, enter into an unsecured standby letter of credit facility, and increase our standby letter of credit sublimit to $187.5 million. We also increased our borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility from $600.0 million to $725.0 million. We may from time to time request increases in the borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility of up to $275.0 million, provided no event of default has occurred or is continuing or would result from such increase. Interest on borrowings under the revolving credit facility accrues at a variable rate tied to the prime rate or the LIBOR rate, at our election. Interest is payable quarterly in arrears. Pursuant to the terms of the revolving credit facility, we are required to pay an annual commitment fee that accrues at a rate of 0.20% per annum on the unused portion of the borrowing commitments under the revolving credit facility. In addition, we are required to pay a fee in connection with letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility that accrues at a rate of 1.5% per annum on the amount of such letters of credit outstanding. There is an additional fronting fee of 0.125% per annum multiplied by the average aggregate daily maximum amount available under all letters of credit. The revolving credit facility contains customary conditions to borrowing, events of default, and covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make distributions to our holders or our subsidiaries equity interests, make investments, or engage in transactions with our affiliates. In addition, the revolving credit facility contains financial covenants, including a consolidated leverage ratio covenant and a minimum liquidity balance. We were in compliance with all covenants under the revolving credit facility as of March 31, 2019 . As of March 31, 2019 , we had no amounts outstanding under the revolving credit facility and an aggregate of $68.9 million in letters of credit outstanding under the revolving credit facility. Our total available borrowing capacity under the revolving credit facility was $656.1 million as of March 31, 2019 . We believe our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with our short-term investments, cash provided by operations and amounts available under the revolving credit facility, will be sufficient to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our revenue growth rate, subscription renewal activity, billing frequency, the timing and extent of spending to support further infrastructure development and research and development efforts, the timing and extent of additional capital expenditures to invest in existing and new office spaces, such as our new corporate headquarters, the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations for the release of restricted stock units, the expansion of sales and marketing and international operation activities, the introduction of new product capabilities and enhancement of our platform, and the continuing market acceptance of our platform. We have and may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services, and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our cash flow activities were as follows for the periods presented: 46 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, 2019 2018 (In millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 63.2 $ 61.8 Net cash used in investing activities (173.3 ) (193.1 ) Net cash provided by (used in) used in financing activities (51.0 ) 365.0 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 1.0 1.6 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ (160.1 ) $ 235.3 Operating activities Our largest source of operating cash is cash collections from our paying users for subscriptions to our platform. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for employee-related expenditures, infrastructure-related costs, and marketing expenses. Net cash provided by operating activities is impacted by our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items, including depreciation and amortization expenses and stock-based compensation, as well as the effect of changes in operating assets and liabilities. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash provided by operating activities was $63.2 million , which mostly consisted of our net loss of $7.7 million , adjusted for stock-based compensation expense of $55.6 million and depreciation and amortization expenses of $45.8 million , and net cash outflow of $30.0 million from operating assets and liabilities. The outflow from operating assets and liabilities was primarily due to the payment of our corporate bonus during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , partially offset by $13.8 million in reimbursements for tenant improvement allowances. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , was primarily due to a decrease in our net loss, as adjusted for stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization expenses offset by a decrease in cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Investing activities Net cash used in investing activities is primarily impacted by purchases of short-term investments, purchases of property and equipment to make improvements to existing and new office spaces, and for purchasing infrastructure equipment in co-location facilities that we directly lease and operate. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash used in investing activities was $173.3 million , which primarily related to cash paid for our acquisition of HelloSign, net of cash acquired of $172.1 million and capital expenditures of $29.7 million related to our office and datacenter build-outs. These outflows were partially offset by inflows of $23.8 million related to proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments. The increase in cash used in investing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , was primarily due to the acquisition of HelloSign and an increase in capital expenditures for office and datacenter build-outs. Financing activities Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities is primarily impacted by repurchases of common stock to satisfy the tax withholding obligation for the release of restricted stock units (RSUs) and finance lease obligations for our infrastructure equipment. For the three months ended March 31, 2019 , net cash used for financing activities was $51.0 million , which primarily consisted of principal payments against finance lease obligations and payments for the satisfaction of tax withholding obligations for the release of restricted stock units. The increase in cash used in financing activities during the three months ended March 31, 2019 , compared to the three months ended March 31, 2018 , was primarily due to cash inflows from the proceeds from the completion of our IPO during the three months ended March 31, 2018 . 47 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our principal commitments consist of obligations under operating leases for office space and datacenter operations, and financing leases for datacenter equipment. See Note 9 "Leases" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for further information. There have been no material changes in our contractual obligations and commitments, as disclosed in our Annual Report. 48 Table of Contents Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2019 , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or variable interest entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 49 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Judgments There have been no changes to our critical accounting policies and significant judgments as compared to the critical accounting policies and judgments disclosed in our Annual Report. Additionally, common stock valuation is no longer a critical accounting policy or judgment for us in any of the periods presented as our Board of Directors determines the fair value of each share of underlying common stock based on the closing price of our Class A common stock as reported on the date of the grant. 50 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 1, Description of the Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 51 Table of Contents