Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the duostech Group), and its operating subsidiaries, Duos Technologies, Inc. (duostech) and TrueVue360, Inc (TrueVue360, duostech Group and duostech, collectively the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the Company) was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 under the original name of Information Systems Associates, Inc. (ISA). Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and the development and licensing of information technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, ISA entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (duostech), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015, whereby duostech became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. duostech was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, has a current staff of 55 people of which 52 are full time and is a technology and software applications company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property. The Companys core competencies, including advanced intelligent technologies, are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform, centraco. The Company has developed the Railcar Inspection Portal (RIP) that provides both freight and transit railroad customers and select government agencies the ability to conduct fully remote railcar inspections of trains while they are in transit. The system, which incorporates a variety of sophisticated optical technologies, illumination and other sensors, scans each passing railcar to create an extremely high-resolution image set from a variety of angles including the undercarriage. These images are then processed through various methods of artificial intelligence algorithms to identify specific defects and/or areas of interest on each railcar. This is all accomplished within seconds of a railcar passing through our portal. This solution has the potential to transform the railroad industry immediately increasing safety, improving efficiency and reducing costs. The Company has successfully deployed this system with several Class 1 railroad customers and anticipates an increased demand in the future. Government agencies can conduct digital inspections combined with the incorporated AI to improve rail traffic flow across borders which also directly benefits the Class 1 railroads through increasing their velocity. 21 The Company has also developed the Automated Logistics Information System (ALIS) which automates and reduces/removes personnel from gatehouses where trucks enter and exit large logistics and intermodal facilities. This solution also incorporates sensors and data points as necessary for each operation and directly interconnects with backend logistics databases and processes to streamline operations, and significantly improve operations and security and importantly dramatically improves the vehicle throughput on each lane on which the technology is deployed. The Company has built a portfolio of IP and patented solutions that creates actionable intelligence using two core native platforms called centraco and praesidium. All solutions provided include a variant of both applications. Centraco is designed primarily as the user interface to all our systems as well as the backend connection to third- party applications and databases through both Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and Software Development Kits (SDKs). This interface is browser based and hosted within each one of our systems and solutions. It is typically also customized for each unique customer and application. Praesidium typically resides as middleware in our systems and manages the various image capture devices and some sensors for input into the Centraco software. The Company also developed a proprietary Artificial Intelligence (AI) software platform, truevue360 with the objective of focusing the Companys advanced intelligent technologies in the areas of AI, deep machine learning and advanced multi-layered algorithms to further support our solutions. The Company also provides professional and consulting services for large data centers and has been developing a system for the automation of asset information marketed as dcVue. The Company is now deploying its dcVue software. This software is used by Duos consulting auditing teams. dcVue is based upon the Companys OSPI patent which was awarded in 2010. The Company offers dcVue available for license to our customers as a licensed software product. The Companys strategy is to deliver operational and technical excellence to our customers; expand our RIP and ALIS solutions into current and new customers focused in the Rail, Logistics and U.S. Government Sectors; offer both CAPEX and OPEX pricing models to customers that increases recurring revenue, backlog and improves profitability; responsibly grow the business both organically and through selective acquisitions; and finally promote a performance-based work force where employees enjoy their work and are incentivized to excel and remain with the Company. Prospects and Outlook The Company has made significant changes in the senior management team to include a new Chief Executive Officer with a wealth of experience successfully leading start-up and turn-around companies. In addition, the former divisional COO who has 20 years of experience with the Company delivering technology into rail, logistics, intermodal, and other industries, has been promoted to Chief Commercial Officer (CCO) of our wholly owned subsidiary, duostech. duostech has also hired a divisional Chief Operating Officer (COO) with a strong background in operations in multiple former assignments. The Companys CFO will continue in the same role providing continuity and multiple years of public company experience. Most recently, the Companys Board of Directors was strengthened with the addition of a retired Chief Operating Officer for a Class 1 railroad with more than 50 years of experience in the rail industry. This appointment is a continuation of an evaluation of key officers and directors and the roles that they will play going forward. The new leadership teams focus is to improve operational and technical execution which will in turn enable the commercial side of the business to expand RIP and ALIS delivery into existing customers. Even though COVID-19 is expected to still be an issue during 2021, the Companys primary customers have indicated readiness to order more equipment and services based upon the Companys current performance. Additionally, the new CEO has directed that the Company make engineering and software upgrades to the RIP to meet anticipated Federal Railroad Association (FRA) and Association of American Railroad (AAR) standards. Similar upgrades are also being developed to improve the ALIS system. These upgrades are anticipated to be released throughout 2021 and are expected to drive revenue growth this year and beyond. The Company is expanding its focus in the rail industry to encompass passenger transportation and is currently in the last stages of a bid for a large, multi-year contract with a national rail carrier. If successful, the Company is expected to deliver at least two RIP solutions along with a long-term services agreement in late 2021 or early 2022. 22 Although the Company prospects and outlook are anticipated to be favorable for 2021, investing in our securities involves risk and careful consideration should be made before deciding to purchase our securities. There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control and unexpected macro events can have a severe impact on the business. Results of Operation The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 The following table sets forth a modified version of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations that is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Revenues $ 2,154,754 $ 990,945 Cost of revenues 2,730,462 1,646,433 Gross margin (575,708 ) (655,488 ) Operating expenses 1,246,592 1,432,427 Loss from operations (1,822,300 ) (2,087,915 ) Other income (expense) 1,416,277 (59,134 ) Net loss $ (406,023 ) $ (2,147,049 ) Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 1,490,298 $ 513,674 190 % Services and Consulting 664,456 477,271 39 % Total revenues $ 2,154,754 $ 990,945 117 % The significant increase in overall revenues is driven by the projects portion of our business which is showing early signs of recovery from the delays as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. The Companys stable capital structure allowed us to weather the unexpected delays without significant operational impact and enables us to pursue large projects requiring the ability to deploy major resources. An additional effect of this is the ongoing investment by the Company in streamlining our project build and delivery process and quality control processes. The Company undertook a major review of operations in the final quarter of 2020 and made significant changes in staffing including additional engineering staff. Early in the quarter, the Company implemented a rapid development initiative to be able to respond to market driven demand more quickly. Although not fully visible in this quarters financials, this effort has shortened delivery times on major projects and is expected to result in significant revenue growth in the last six months of this year and beyond. AI technologies recorded their first quarter of revenue during the second quarter of 2020 and continues to record revenues in the first quarter of 2021 that is included in the technology systems total. The Company received a large ($2+ million) contract for AI related development from a large client which is expected to add revenues in the following quarters of 2021. The Company expects to continue the growth with new revenue from other existing customers which also will be coming on-line in the next several months. The increase in project revenues was also accompanied by an increase in services revenue as the result of new maintenance contracts being established as well as renewals of existing contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being installed. The services portion of revenues are driven by successful completion on projects and represent services and support for those installations. The Company expects to continue the growth with new, long term recurring revenue from existing customers which will be coming on-line in the next several months. The consulting source of revenue generated in 2021 is comparable to 2020. 23 Cost of Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 1,895,485 $ 1,092,058 74 % Services and consulting 331,384 293,954 13 % Overhead 503,593 260,421 93 % Total cost of revenues $ 2,730,462 $ 1,646,433 66 % Cost of revenues, for both technology systems and services and consulting comprises equipment, labor and overhead necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems. Cost of revenues on technology systems increased during the period compared to the equivalent period in 2020, as a part of a strategic review that senior management undertook in the final months of 2020. The Companys organization and related cost structure was realigned to give the capability to manufacture, install and support multiple production systems simultaneously. Prior to this realignment, the Companys organization was focused on primarily research and development with implementation resources being allocated as necessary. In accordance with this shift in structure, certain staff were re-assigned or replaced, and new staff added in key areas, particularly engineering, IT and AI. In conjunction with this change, increased costs are now being recognized against project and support revenues with a similar reduction in costs previously recognized for research and development, engineering development and internal support. In concert with this, there is a continued focus on build costs and savings through efficiency, but the Company has elected to expand its key employees in anticipation of expected sales growth in technology systems and services through the end of this year and in 2022. In addition, certain expenses related to installed equipment upgrades were greater than anticipated for a variety of reasons including cost overruns on the first installation of new technologies and certain implementation inefficiencies related to Covid-19 restrictions such as extended quarantines and additional contract staff necessary to complete projects on time. These changes had a negative impact on the gross margin (see below), but this is expected to be a short-term impact, offset by increases in revenue later in the year. It is also expected to have positive long-term impact as the Company is prepared to deliver a higher number of systems in a given period, with a shorter time of implementation and with better quality and reliability as the operations become standardized in anticipation of expected higher demand for systems, particularly in the rail industry. Cost of revenues increased on technical support at a lower rate than the increase in revenue for technical support which is a positive trend going forward as more of the Companys revenue comes from this recurring revenue business. However, the services and consulting services recorded a substantial increase in cost of revenues in the quarter reflecting the additional resources allocated to these activities. Gross Margin For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 20120 % Change Revenues $ 2,154,754 $ 990,945 117 % Cost of revenues 2,730,462 1,646,433 66 % Gross margin $ (575,708 ) $ (655,488 ) -12 % As previously discussed, the Company has revamped its operations to support an anticipated increase in number of new systems going forward. The resultant additional cost of revenues, while somewhat offset by decreases in SG&A expenses, is not yet covered by a comparable increase in revenues as of the first quarter 2021. The overall negative gross margin of $575,708 was an improvement over the comparable period in 2020 which was $655,488, as a result of higher recorded revenues during the first quarter of 2021 compared to the equivalent period in 2020. We anticipate an improvement in the overall gross margin for the full year reporting in 2021, with much of those improvements coming in the second half of the year. 24 Operating Expenses For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 311,801 $ 139,852 123 % Research and development 61,033 40,639 50 % Administration 873,758 1,251,936 -30 % Total operating expense $ 1,246,592 $ 1,432,427 -13 % Overall operating expenses were lower by 13% than the equivalent period in 2020. A significant increase in sales and marketing costs and a smaller increase in research and development was more than offset by a substantial decrease in overall administration costs. This decrease was in part due to certain cost reductions that were implemented due to the anticipated reduction in revenues due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Additionally, certain costs to support the organization as it operated at that time were eliminated as an offset to the increases in operations staff as described previously. Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $1,822,300, an improvement compared to a $2,087,915 loss from operations for the same period in 2020. The decrease in losses from operations during the quarter are the result of higher revenues recorded in the quarter. This increase in revenues was partially offset by an aggregate of higher costs for cost of sales related to the recent organizational changes and certain cost overruns on the initial deployment of some newly developed systems. The combination of these led to temporary negative gross margins for the quarter offset by an overall lower operating cost. The Company expects to achieve profitability in the latter half of the year through improvements in gross margin from higher revenues and lower operating costs. This is due to the anticipated growth in business from new contracts previously delayed through the first half of this year and the effects of greater efficiencies in the deployment of new systems anticipated in the second half of 2021. Other Income/Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $6,220 versus interest expense of $68,932 in the equivalent period in 2020. The decrease is due to a reduction in interest bearing debt that was repaid in the second quarter of 2020 in addition to the interest expense recorded for the PPP loan that was forgiven in the first quarter. Other income increased significantly due to the PPP loan forgiveness in February 2021. Net Loss The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 was $406,023 and $2,147,049, respectively. The 81% decrease in net loss was mostly attributed to the forgiveness of the CARES Act PPP loan. Net loss per common share was $0.11 and $0.80 for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2021, the Company has working capital of $5,587,540 and a net loss of $406,023 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: March 31, 2021 March 31, 2020 Net cash used in operating activities $ (1,296,424 ) $ (1,657,013 ) Net cash used in investing activities (58,105 ) (36,245 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 4,457,342 8,189,897 Net increase in cash $ 3,102,813 $ 6,496,639 25 Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $1,296,424 and net cash used during the same period of 2020 was $1,657,013. The decrease in net cash used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was the result of lower expenditures related to current and future project execution in anticipation of new projects. In addition, there are several changes in assets and liabilities compared to the previous period that added to the use of cash in operations. Notable changes were a significant increase in accounts receivable and contract assets reflecting better availability of working capital as a result of the recent capital raise completed in the first quarter 2021. In addition, cash that was being used to further development activities for our AI platform is significantly reduced as well as the product generating revenues during this period. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020 were $58,105 and $36,245, respectively, representing an increase in investments in various fixed assets during the three months of 2021 related to new technology offerings. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $4,457,342 and for the same period of 2020 was $8,189,897. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the three-month period in 2020 were primarily attributable to a significant capital raise undertaken during that period in conjunction with listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Cash flows from financing activities during the first quarter of 2021 were primarily attributable to the issuance of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock for $4,500,000. These activities created sufficient cash and positive working capital including a reserve which alleviates the previous substantial doubt related to a going concern and the need for a going concern risk disclosure. Previously, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. During 2021, we have funded our operations through a combination of a recent capital raise, revenues generated, and cash received from ongoing project execution and associated maintenance revenues. As of May 12, 2021, we had cash on hand of approximately $6,931,000. We have approximately $135,000 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Our current capital and revenues are enough to fund operations for at least the next 12 months. However, the Company cannot currently quantify the uncertainty related to the pandemic and its effects on the business in the coming quarters. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, continuing market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature and are currently impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may continue to be adversely affected by this situation as well as the potential for a prolonged recession period. Liquidity Under Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (ASC 205-40), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40. As reflected in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $406,023 for the three months ended March 31, 2021. During the same period, net cash used in operating activities was $1,296,424. The working capital surplus and accumulated deficit as of March 31, 2021 were $5,587,540 and $39,894,173, respectively. In previous financial reports, the Company had raised substantial doubt about continuing as a going concern. This was principally due to a lack of working capital prior to an underwritten offering which was completed during the first quarter of 2020 (the 2020 Offering) and a further capital raise in the most recent quarter covered by this report. 26 Upon completion of the 2020 Offering, management raised sufficient working capital to meet its needs for the next 12-months without the need to raise further capital. Since the advent of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Company has experienced a significant slowdown in closing new projects due to cautious actions by current and potential clients. We continue to be successful in identifying new business opportunities and are focused on re-establishing a backlog of projects. Most importantly, the Companys success in increasing its working capital surplus after receiving proceeds from the 2020 Offering of more than $8,200,000 and more recently, in the first quarter of 2021, receiving net proceeds of $4,500,000 from the issuance of Series C Preferred Stock to two large shareholders, continues to give us the capital required to fund the fundamental business changes that we undertook in the last quarter of 2020 and maintain our business strategy overall. In addition, the Company was successful in securing a loan of $1,410,270 during the second quarter of 2020 from the Small Business Administration via the PPP/CARES Act program which further bolstered the Companys cash reserves. This loan was forgiven in the current quarter and leaves the Company essentially debt free. Management has been and continues to take actions including, but not limited to, elimination of certain costs that did not contribute to short term revenue, and re-aligning both management and staffing with a focus on improving certain skill sets necessary to build growth and profitability and focusing product strategy on opportunities that are likely to bear results in the relatively short term. During the first quarter, management has taken further significant actions including reorganizing our engineering and technical teams and selectively improving organizational efficiency to effectively grow the business as the expected order flow resumes in 2021. Management believes that, at this time, we have alleviated the substantial doubt for the Company to continue as a going concern. We are executing the plan to grow our business and achieve profitability without the requirement to raise additional capital for existing operations. As previously noted, the Company raised $4,500,000 from existing shareholders through the issuance of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock. Although additional investment is not assured, the Company is comfortable that it would be able to raise sufficient capital to support expanded operations based on this increase in business activity. In the long run, the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing the plan described above, generate enough revenue and attain consistently profitable operations. Although the current global pandemic related to the coronavirus (Covid-19) has affected our operations, and we do believe this is expected to be a long-term issue, the Company cannot currently quantify the uncertainty related to the pandemic and its effects on our customers in the coming quarters. We have analyzed our cash flow under stress test conditions and have determined that we have sufficient liquid assets on hand to maintain operations for at least 12 months from the date of this report. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated, and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. Share-Based Compensation The Company accounts for employee stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-10, Share-Based Payment , which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. 27 In June 2018, the FASB issued ASU 2018-07, Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718). This update is intended to reduce cost and complexity and to improve financial reporting for share-based payments issued to non-employees (for example, service providers, external legal counsel, suppliers, etc.). The ASU expands the scope of Topic 718, CompensationStock Compensation, which currently only includes share-based payments issued to employees, to also include share-based payments issued to non-employees for goods and services. Consequently, the accounting for share-based payments to non-employees and employees will be substantially aligned. This standard is effective for financial statements issued by public companies for the annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption of the standard was permitted. Management implemented this standard on January 1, 2019. The standard was applied in a retrospective approach for each period presented. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of net contract revenues and the total estimated costs to determine progress towards contract completion, valuation of derivatives, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt, estimates of the valuation of right of use assets and corresponding lease liabilities and valuation of stock-based awards. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.