Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the Company), and its operating subsidiaries, Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos) and TrueVue360, Inc (TrueVue360, Duos Technologies Group, Inc. and Duos, collectively the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, aim, project, target, will, may, should, forecast or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements typically address the Companys expected future business and financial performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, the Companys ability to generate sufficient cash to continue and expand operations, the competitive environment generally and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in technology, the availability of and the terms of financing, changes in costs and availability of goods and services, economic conditions in general and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in federal, state and/or local government laws and regulations potentially affecting the use of the Companys technology, changes in operating strategy or development plans and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company cautions that the foregoing list of risks, uncertainties and factors is not exclusive. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Companys most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings filed by the Company with the SEC, which are available at the SECs website, http://www.sec.gov. The Company believes its plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that the Company will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations. Indeed, it is likely that some of the Companys assumptions may prove to be incorrect. The Companys actual results and financial position may vary from those projected or implied in the forward-looking statements and the variances may be material. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement. We do not undertake or accept any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based, except as required by law. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the Company or other matters attributable to the Company or any person acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements above. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. 23 Overview Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the Company) was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 under the original name of Information Systems Associates, Inc. Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and the development and licensing of information technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, the Company entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015, whereby Duos became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Duos was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, has a current staff of 66 people of which 58 are full time and is a technology and software applications company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property. The Companys core competencies, including advanced intelligent technologies, are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform, Centraco. The Company has developed the Railcar Inspection Portal (RIP) which provides both freight and transit railroad customers and select government agencies the ability to conduct fully remote railcar inspections of trains while they are in transit. The system, which incorporates a variety of sophisticated optical technologies, illumination and other sensors, scans each passing railcar to create an extremely high-resolution image set from a variety of angles including the undercarriage. These images are then processed through various methods of artificial intelligence algorithms to identify specific defects and/or areas of interest on each railcar. This is all accomplished within seconds of a railcar passing through our portal. We believe this solution has the potential to transform the railroad industry immediately increasing safety, improving efficiency and reducing costs. The Company has successfully deployed this system with several Class 1 railroad customers and anticipates an increased demand from transit and other railroad customers along with selected government agencies that operate and/or manage rail traffic in the future. Government agencies can conduct digital inspections combined with the incorporated artificial intelligence (AI) to improve rail traffic flow across borders which also directly benefits the Class 1 railroads through increasing their velocity. The Company has also developed the Automated Logistics Information System (ALIS) which automates gatehouse operations where transport trucks enter and exit large logistics and intermodal facilities. This solution also incorporates sensors and data points as necessary for each operation and directly interconnects with backend logistics databases and processes to streamline operations, and significantly improve operations and security and importantly dramatically improves the vehicle throughput on each lane on which the technology is deployed. The Company has built a portfolio of IP and patented solutions that creates actionable intelligence using two core native platforms called Centraco and Praesidium. All solutions provided include a variant of both applications. Centraco is designed primarily as the user interface to all our systems as well as the backend connection to third-party applications and databases through both Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and Software Development Kits (SDKs). This interface is browser based and hosted within each one of our systems and solutions. It is typically also customized for each unique customer and application. Praesidium typically resides as middleware in our systems and manages the various image capture devices and some sensors for input into the Centraco software. The Company also developed a proprietary Artificial Intelligence software platform, Truevue360 with the objective of focusing the Companys advanced intelligent technologies in the areas of AI, deep machine learning and advanced multi-layered algorithms to further support our solutions. The Company also provided professional and consulting services for large data centers and had developed a system for the automation of asset information marketed as DcVue. The Company had deployed its DcVue software at one beta site. This software was used by Duos consulting auditing teams. DcVue was based upon the Companys OSPI patent which was awarded in 2010. The Company offered DcVue available for license to our customers as a licensed software product. The Company ceased offering this product in 2021. The Companys strategy is to deliver operational and technical excellence to our customers; expand our RIP and ALIS solutions into current and new customers focused in the Rail, Logistics and U.S. Government Sectors; offer both CAPEX and OPEX pricing models to customers that increases recurring revenue, grows backlog and improves profitability; responsibly grow the business both organically and through selective acquisitions; and promote a performance-based work force where employees enjoy their work and are incentivized to excel and remain with the Company. 24 Prospects and Outlook The Companys focus is to improve operational and technical execution which, we believe, will in turn enable the commercial side of the business to expand RIP and ALIS delivery into existing customers and to expand and diversify our current customer base. Even though COVID-19 is expected to still be an issue during 2022, the Companys primary customers have indicated readiness to order more equipment and services should the Company execute as expected on key deliverables. Additionally, the Company is making engineering and software upgrades to the RIP to meet anticipated Federal Railroad Association (FRA) and Association of American Railroad (AAR) standards. Similar upgrades are also being developed to improve the ALIS system. These upgrades will continue to be released throughout 2022 and are expected to drive revenue growth this year and beyond. The Company is expanding its focus in the rail industry to encompass passenger transportation and was awarded a large, multi-year contract with a national rail carrier. The Company anticipates that it will deliver at least two RIP solutions along with a long-term services agreement in 2022 and completing delivery during the first quarter of 2023. Although the Companys prospects and outlook are anticipated to be favorable for 2022, investing in our securities involves risk and careful consideration should be made before deciding to purchase our securities. There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control and unexpected macro events can have a severe impact on the business. Please see the risk factors identified in Item 1A Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2022. Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations and is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 Revenues $ 1,439,316 $ 2,154,754 Cost of revenues 1,217,250 1,651,780 Gross margin 222,066 502,974 Operating expenses 2,863,684 2,325,274 Loss from operations (2,641,618 ) (1,822,300 ) Other income (expense) (2,998 ) (1,416,277 ) Net loss $ (2,644,616 ) $ (406,023 ) Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 783,269 $ 1,490,298 -47% Services and consulting 656,047 664,456 -1% Total revenues $ 1,439,316 $ 2,154,754 -33% 25 The decrease in overall revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2022 is primarily related to the timing of new installations in the technology systems portion of our business, which was driven by delays in receiving anticipated notices to proceed for new contracts expected earlier in the year, and supply chain issues which are extending deadlines for shipment of key components used in our technology systems. While certain orders were delayed from 2021 into 2022, we remain encouraged by the breadth and scope of recent bids in which we have participated. Management cautions that because of the delays in anticipated start dates, certain installations may produce revenues towards the end of 2022, some of which may ultimately be recorded in 2023. Additionally, although the industries in which we operate are showing early signs of recovery from the delays as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, other macro-economic effects are anticipated to impact us, including inflation and the current supply chain issues. The effect of this will be to push some revenue recognition later in the year or into 2023. The effects of inflation are not quantifiable at the current time but are beginning to be evident in increased costs for materials and labor. These effects may result in higher costs for project implementation that cannot be wholly or even partially passed on to our customers and thus resulting in delaying our progress towards profitability. We believe the Companys capital structure allows us to weather the unexpected delays without significant operational impact and enables us to pursue large projects requiring the ability to deploy major resources. It should be noted that the Company increased its working capital in late 2021 to account for an increase in pre-contract procurement activities to avoid a slowdown in revenues caused by delays in receiving certain components. The Company undertook a major review of operations during 2021 and made significant changes in staffing, including hiring additional engineering staff and revamping its software development and Artificial Intelligence staffing. Although the Company implemented a rapid development initiative in early 2021, which was intended to enable the Company to respond to market driven demand more quickly, this effort has been somewhat negated by ongoing supply chain issues. This effort was expected to shorten delivery times on major projects and result in significant revenue growth in the last six months of 2021 and beyond, the previously discussed supply chain issues have not allowed the anticipated benefits to be realized at this time. The Company is monitoring the situation and had continued to procure materials ahead of formal contract award late in the first quarter of 2022. The services portion of revenues are driven by the successful completion of projects and represent services and support for those installations. The Company expects growth with new revenue from existing customers, including services revenue as the result of new maintenance contracts being established on installations coming on-line during 2022. The Company also anticipates renewals of existing contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being installed. Cost of Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 865,488 $ 1,293,608 -33% Services and consulting 351,762 358,172 -2% Total cost of revenues $ 1,217,250 $ 1,651,780 -26% Cost of revenues largely comprises equipment, labor and overhead necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems. Cost of revenues on technology systems decreased during the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the equivalent period in 2021, which is consistent with the decrease in revenues. However, the percentage decrease in cost of revenues for technology systems for the current year period compared to the prior year period was lower than the percentage decrease in revenues from technology systems for the current year period compared to the prior year period. The higher level of cost compared to revenues was mainly due to higher costs of materials due to supply chain disruptions and inflation, as well as additional work being necessary on certain of the Companys installations to resolve newly identified quality issues. While we expect that macro-economic factors will continue to drive prices, the Company expects its structural realignment to aid in lowering costs as a percentage of the overall system price going forward. As previously noted, the Companys organization and related cost structure was realigned to provide the capability to manufacture, install and support multiple production systems simultaneously. In accordance with this shift in structure, certain staff were re-assigned or replaced, and new staff added in key areas, particularly software engineering, IT and AI. 26 In conjunction with these organizational changes, increased costs are now being recognized against project and support revenues. While there is a continued focus on construction costs and savings through efficiency, the Company has elected to expand its key employees in 2021 and early 2022 in anticipation of expected sales growth in technology systems and services. These changes had a negative impact on the gross margin (see below) during the quarter ended March 31, 2022, but this is expected to be a short-term impact, which we believe will be offset by anticipated increases in revenue later in 2022. We also expect these changes to have a positive long-term impact as we believe they will enable the Company to deliver a higher number of systems in a given period, with a shorter period of implementation and with better quality and reliability, as operations become standardized in anticipation of expected higher demand for systems, particularly in the rail industry. Cost of revenues on services and consulting decreased in the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the prior year period in line with the decrease in revenues from services and consulting for the current year period as compared to the prior year period. While relatively flat when comparing the first quarter of 2022 and the equivalent period in 2021, an overall positive trend on service and consulting revenue is expected to continue as the Company expects that as more of the revenue will be derived from recurring revenue. Costs of revenues on services and consulting are expected to increase in future years but at a slower rate than revenue growth. The Company focused on streamlining support operations in 2021, and despite the additional resources allocated to these activities in anticipation of higher recurring revenue in 2022 and beyond, we expect higher gross margins as the Company grows. As discussed previously, the impact of inflation may negatively affect the costs of revenues such that we may experience higher costs for materials and labor, including higher employee and sub-contractor costs that cannot be passed along in all cases. Management is continuing to monitor this situation and expects to take actions as the full impact of these cost increases is understood. This may take the form of higher prices and continued evaluation of costs to attempt to reduce the overall costs to offset the additional expenses, although this is not assured. Gross Margin For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues $ 1,439,316 $ 2,154,754 -33 % Cost of revenues 1,217,250 1,651,780 -26 % Gross margin $ 222,066 $ 502,974 -56 % As previously discussed, the Company has revamped its operations to support an anticipated increase in the number of new systems going forward. The resultant additional cost of revenues was not covered by a comparable increase in revenues during the first quarter of 2022. The main reason for the continuing high level of cost is higher costs of materials due to supply chain disruptions and inflation. However, we anticipate an improvement in the overall gross margin for the full year of 2022, with much of the improvement expected to occur in the second half of the year. Certain macro-economic factors, which are driving increased costs for materials and labor, may result in higher costs for project implementation that cannot be wholly or even partially passed on to our customers, which may result in delaying our progress towards profitability into 2023. Operating Expenses For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2022 2021 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 283,894 $ 311,801 -9 % Research and development 436,717 359,127 22 % General and administration 2,143,073 1,654,346 30 % Total operating expenses $ 2,863,684 $ 2,325,274 23 % 27 Overall operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2022 increased by 23% compared to the equivalent period in 2021. Increases in research and development costs and general and administration costs during the current year period were offset by a decrease in sales and marketing costs during the period. The overall increase is primarily related to the Companys efforts to revamp its operations to support an anticipated increase in the number of new systems going forward. The increase is also related to higher rent, as during the fourth quarter of 2021, a new operating lease agreement of office and warehouse combination space commenced. This new space will combine the Companys two separate work locations into one facility, which will allow for greater collaboration and also accommodate a larger anticipated workforce and manufacturing facility. The increase in research and development costs was also driven by customer demand for the development of new components related to our technology systems. Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 were $2,641,618 and $1,822,300, respectively. The increase in losses from operations was primarily the result of lower revenues recorded in the quarter as a consequence of delays in the start of new projects and delays in the receipt of materials for production. There was also higher relative cost of sales related to higher costs of materials resulting from supply chain disruptions and inflation. Other Income/Expense Other expense for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $2,998 compared to other income of $1,416,277 in the comparative period of 2021. The change is primarily due to PPP loan forgiveness recorded in the first quarter of 2021. Net Loss The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $2,644,616 and $406,023, respectively. The increase in net loss was mostly attributed to lower revenue in the current quarter and the PPP loan forgiveness recorded in the first quarter of 2021. Net loss per common share was $0.49 and $0.11 for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2022, the Company has a working capital surplus of $2,540,856 and a net loss of $2,644,616. Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: March 31, 2022 March 31, 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (827,733 ) $ (1,296,424 ) Net cash used in investing activities (102,078 ) (58,105 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 5,365,954 4,457,342 Net increase in cash $ 4,436,143 $ 3,102,813 Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $827,733 and $1,296,424, respectively. The decrease in net cash used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was the result of lower expenditures related to current technology systems projects due to the timing of project award and delays in the receipt of materials. In addition, there are several changes in assets and liabilities compared to the previous period that decreased the use of cash in operations, notably the change in accounts receivable due to the timing of project invoicing milestones and cash receipts. Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $102,078 and $58,105, respectively, representing an increase in the purchase of various fixed assets for computer equipment and product development. 28 Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2022 and 2021 was $5,365,954 and $4,457,342, respectively. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the three-month period in 2022 were primarily attributable to net proceeds of approximately $5,500,000 from the successful sale of common stock under the the Companys shelf registration statement. Cash flows from financing activities during the three-month period in 2021 were primarily attributable to the issuance of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock for $4,500,000. During 2022, we funded our operations through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) securities, and through revenues generated and cash received from ongoing project execution, services and associated maintenance revenues. As of May 10, 2022, we have cash on hand of approximately $4,030,000. We have approximately $165,500 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. We believe our current capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion and our operations over the next twelve months, although we are now less dependent on timely payments by our customers for projects and work in process. However, we expect such timely payments to continue. Material cash requirements will be satisfied within the normal course of business including substantial upfront payments from our customers prior to starting projects. In some limited cases, the Company may elect to purchase materials and supplies in advance of contract award but where there is a high probability of that award. Demand for our products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. Because a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may continue to be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods, although these are not considered to be a factor at present. Liquidity Under Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (ASC 205-40), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40. As reflected in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $2,644,616 for the three months ended March 31, 2022. During the same period, net cash used in operating activities was $827,733. The working capital surplus and accumulated deficit as of March 31, 2022 were $2,540,856 and $48,141,667 respectively. In previous financial reports, the Company had raised substantial doubt about continuing as a going concern. This was principally due to a lack of working capital prior to an underwritten offering receiving net proceeds of approximately $5,500,000 from the successful sales of common stock which was completed during the first quarter of 2022 (the 2022 Offering). As previously noted, in 2021, the Company raised $4,500,000 from existing shareholders through the issuance of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock. Although additional investment is not assured, the Company is comfortable that it would be able to raise sufficient capital to support expanded operations based on an anticipated increase in business activity. In the long run, the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing the plan described above, generate enough revenue, and attain consistently profitable operations. Although the current global pandemic related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) has affected our operations, particularly in supply chain, we now believe that this is expected to be an ongoing issue and our working capital assumptions reflect this new reality. The Company cannot currently quantify the uncertainty related to the pandemic and its effects on our customers in the coming quarters. We have analyzed our cash flow under stress test conditions and have determined that we have sufficient liquid assets on hand to maintain operations for at least twelve months from the date of this report. 29 Management believes that, at this time, the conditions in our market space with ongoing contract delays, the consequent need to procure certain materials in advance of a binding contract and the additional time needed to execute on new contracts previously reported have put a strain on our cash reserves. However, recent events, including a $5,500,000 injection of funds from a sale of securities, significant recent orders and the overall stabilization of the business, indicate that there is not a substantial doubt for the Company to continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months from the issuance of this report. We continue executing the plan to grow our business and achieve profitability without the requirement to raise additional capital for existing operations for 2022, although we may do so to fund selective opportunities that may arise. Management has extensively evaluated our requirements for the next twelve months and has determined that the Company currently has sufficient cash to operate for at least that period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated, and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for employee stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-10, Share-Based Payment , which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. Determining Fair Value Under ASC 718-10 The Company estimates the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option-pricing formula. This fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The Companys determination of fair value using an option-pricing model is affected by the stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly subjective variables. The Company estimates volatility based upon the historical stock price of the Company and estimates the expected term for stock options using the simplified method for employees and directors and the contractual term for non-employees. The risk-free rate is determined based upon the prevailing rate of United States Treasury securities with similar maturities. Revenue Recognition The Company follows Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), that affects the timing of when certain types of revenues will be recognized. The basic principles in ASC 606 include the following: a contract with a customer creates distinct contract assets and performance obligations, satisfaction of a performance obligation creates revenue, and a performance obligation is satisfied upon transfer of control to a good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized by evaluating our revenue contracts with customers based on the five-step model under ASC 606: 1. Identify the contract with the customer; 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations; and 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. 30 For revenues related to technology systems, the Company recognizes revenue over time using a cost-based input methodology in which significant judgment is required to estimate costs to complete projects. These estimated costs are then used to determine the progress towards contract completion and the corresponding amount of revenue to recognize. Accordingly, the Company now bases its revenue recognition on ASC 606-10-25-27, where control of a good or service transfers over time if the entitys performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity and the entity has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date including a profit margin or reasonable return on capital. Control is deemed to pass to the customer instantaneously as the goods are manufactured and revenue is recognized accordingly. In addition, the Company has adopted ASC 606-10-55-21 such that if the cost incurred is not proportionate to the progress in satisfying the performance obligation, we adjust the input method to recognize revenue only to the extent of the cost incurred. Therefore, the Company will recognize revenue at an equal amount to the cost of the goods to satisfy the performance obligation. To accurately reflect revenue recognition based on the input method, the Company has adopted the implementation guidance as set out in ASC-606-10-55-187 through 192. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in contract assets. Any billings of customers more than recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in contract liabilities. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of net contract revenues and the total estimated costs to determine progress towards contract completion, estimates of the valuation of right of use assets and corresponding lease liabilities, valuation of warrants issued with debt, and valuation of stock-based awards. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.