Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the Company), and its operating subsidiaries, Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos) and TrueVue360, Inc (TrueVue360, Duos Technologies Group, Inc. and Duos, collectively the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, aim, project, target, will, may, should, forecast or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements typically address the Companys expected future business and financial performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, the Companys ability to generate sufficient cash to continue and expand operations, the competitive environment generally and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in technology, the availability of and the terms of financing, changes in costs and availability of goods and services, economic conditions in general and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in federal, state and/or local government laws and regulations potentially affecting the use of the Companys technology, changes in operating strategy or development plans and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company cautions that the foregoing list of risks, uncertainties and factors is not exclusive. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Companys most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings filed by the Company with the SEC, which are available at the SECs website, http://www.sec.gov. The Company believes its plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that the Company will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations. Indeed, it is likely that some of the Companys assumptions may prove to be incorrect. The Companys actual results and financial position may vary from those projected or implied in the forward-looking statements and the variances may be material. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement. We do not undertake or accept any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based, except as required by law. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the Company or other matters attributable to the Company or any person acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements above. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the Company) was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 under the original name of Information Systems Associates, Inc. Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and the development and licensing of information technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, the Company entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015, whereby Duos became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Duos was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, has a current staff of 76 people of which 69 are full-time, and is a technology and software applications company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property. The Companys core competencies, including advanced intelligent technologies, are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform, Centraco. 25 The Company has developed the Rail Inspection Portal (RIP) which provides both freight and transit railroad customers and select government agencies the ability to conduct fully remote railcar inspections of trains while they are in transit. The system, which incorporates a variety of sophisticated optical technologies, illumination and other sensors, scans each passing railcar to create a high-resolution image set from a variety of angles including the undercarriage. These images are then processed through various methods of artificial intelligence algorithms to identify specific defects and/or areas of interest on each railcar. This is all accomplished within seconds of a railcar passing through our portal. We believe this solution has the potential to transform the railroad industry by increasing safety, improving efficiency and reducing costs. The Company has deployed this system with several Class 1 railroad customers and anticipates increased demand from transit and other railroad customers along with selected government agencies that operate and/or manage rail traffic in the future based upon both commercial interest and potential regulatory Government agencies can conduct digital inspections combined with the incorporated artificial intelligence (AI) to improve rail traffic flow across borders which also directly benefits the Class 1 railroads through increasing their velocity. The Companys subscription offering will facilitate safety and efficiency data to other railcar owners and lessors who do not currently benefit from such information. The Company has also developed the Automated Logistics Information System (ALIS) which automates gatehouse operations where transport trucks enter and exit large logistics and intermodal facilities. This solution also incorporates sensors and data points as necessary for each operation and directly interconnects with backend logistics databases and processes to streamline operations, and significantly improve operations and security and significantly improves the vehicle throughput on each lane on which the technology is deployed. In the future, the Company will expand this offering into a Truck Inspection Portal (TIP) leveraging the same technologies and lessons learned from the implementation of the RIP and ALIS solutions. The Company has built a portfolio of IP and patented solutions that creates actionable intelligence using two core native platforms called Centraco and Praesidium. All solutions provided include a variant of both applications. Centraco is designed primarily as the user interface for all our systems as well as the backend connection to third-party applications and databases through both Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and Software Development Kits (SDKs). This interface is browser based and hosted within each one of our systems and solutions. It is typically also customized for each unique customer and application. Praesidium typically resides as middleware in our systems and manages the various image capture devices and some sensors for input into the Centraco software. The Company also developed a proprietary Artificial Intelligence software platform, Truevue360 with the objective of focusing the Companys advanced intelligent technologies in the areas of AI, deep machine learning and advanced multi-layered algorithms to further support our solutions. This platform is in use with a number of Class 1 railroads and the Company maintains a growing catalog of Artificial Intelligence Use Case detections. The Company previously provided professional and consulting services for large data centers and had developed a system for the automation of asset information marketed as DcVue. The Company deployed its DcVue software at one beta site. This software was used by Duos consulting auditing teams. DcVue was based upon the Companys OSPI patent which was awarded in 2010. The Company offered DcVue available for license to our customers as a licensed software product. The Company ceased offering this product in 2021. The Companys strategy is to deliver operational and technical excellence to our customers; expand our RIP and ALIS solutions into current and new customers focused in the Rail, Logistics and U.S. Government Sectors; offer both CAPEX and subscription pricing models to customers that increases recurring revenue, grows backlog and improves profitability; responsibly grow the business both organically and through selective acquisitions; and promote a performance-based work force where employees enjoy their work and are incentivized to excel and remain with the Company. In late 2022, the Company announced it will pursue a subscription platform for the RIPS. Under this new model, the Company will build, own and operate its RIP product and offer the data access for each portal to potential customers. This expansion of the RIP offering would potentially expand the addressable market to other railroads, railcar owners, and car lessors. This shift increases the pool of potential customers by lowering the entry point for the RIP and would reshape the Companys working capital needs to invest in the construction of a RIP ahead of customer revenue inflows. Prospects and Outlook The Companys focus is to improve operational and technical execution which, we believe, will in turn enable the commercial side of the business to expand RIP and ALIS delivery into existing customers and to expand and diversify our current customer base. Even though the lingering supply chain effects of COVID-19 is expected to still be an issue during the remainder of 2023, the Companys primary customers have indicated readiness to order more equipment and services should the Company execute as expected on key deliverables. With the Company working toward a subscription platform approach, this will also open up additional commercial avenues to the Company. Historically, the Company has been focused on large, one-time sales with the subscription opportunities representing an expanded addressable market. 26 Additionally, the Company is making engineering and software upgrades to the RIP to meet anticipated Federal Railroad Association (FRA) and Association of American Railroad (AAR) standards. Similar upgrades are also being developed to improve the ALIS system. These upgrades will continue to be released throughout 2023 and are expected to drive revenue growth this year and beyond. The Company is expanding its focus in the rail industry to encompass passenger transportation and was awarded a large, multi-year contract with a national rail carrier. The Company anticipates that it will manufacture a two-RIP solution for the carrier in 2023 or early 2024, with a long-term services agreement commencing upon delivery of the system. Although the Companys prospects and outlook are anticipated to be favorable for the remainder of 2023, investing in our securities involves risk and careful consideration should be made before deciding to purchase our securities. There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control and unexpected macro events can have a severe impact on the business. Please see the risk factors identified in Item 1A Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2023. Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 Compared to Three Months Ended June 30, 2022 The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations and is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 Revenues $ 1,770,059 $ 3,617,142 Cost of revenues 1,528,722 2,334,528 Gross margin 241,337 1,282,614 Operating expenses 3,389,587 2,677,089 Loss from operations (3,148,250 ) (1,394,475 ) Other income (expense) 158,850 51,803 Net loss $ (2,989,400 ) $ (1,342,672 ) Revenues For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 870,494 $ 2,780,045 -69 % Services and consulting 899,565 837,097 7 % Total revenues $ 1,770,059 $ 3,617,142 -51 % The decrease in overall revenues for the quarter ended June 30, 2023, compared to the quarter ended June 30, 2022, is primarily attributed to the delays outside of the Companys control with ongoing production and manufacturing of our two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals for a passenger transit client, which are recorded in the technology systems portion of our business. During the second quarter of 2022, when these same two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals had only just been awarded and were in the early procurement and design phase, we were also in the advanced stages of manufacturing and installing two additional Rail Inspection Portals for freight railroad customers. Given recent attention and renewed focus around railway safety, the Company remains optimistic about its long-term outlook. We believe the focus on rail safety will prompt additional government oversight on railroads for the implementation of safety systems such as the Companys RIP product. Additionally, the Company sees opportunities to continue to expand its programs with existing customers during the current year and beyond. In spite of a positive outlook, the noted slowing of the supply chain coupled with a longer commercial cycles or customer delays may result in revenue recognition pushing into 2024. The Company remains focused on revenue and margins performance impacts from inflation and continued supply chain challenges and proactively works to address these issues via customer pricing. 27 The growth of the services portion of revenues is driven by the successful completion and implementation of artificial intelligence detections and represents services and support for those detections. The growth in services revenue is also bolstered by the phasing in of services and maintenance agreements related to new portals that came online during early 2023. The Company expects growth with new revenue from existing customers, including services revenue as the result of new maintenance contracts being established on installations coming on-line during 2023. The Company also anticipates renewals of existing and backlog contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being manufactured and expected to be completed during 2023. Cost of Revenues For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 1,072,106 $ 1,974,302 -46 % Services and consulting 456,616 360,226 27 % Total cost of revenues $ 1,528,722 $ 2,334,528 -35 % Cost of revenues largely comprises equipment and labor necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems and software projects. During the three months ended June 30, 2023, the cost of revenues on technology systems decreased compared to the equivalent period in 2022, in line with the decrease in revenues. This decline in cost is mainly attributed to the Company being in the production and manufacturing phase of our two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals. In contrast, during the second quarter of 2022, the Company had just been awarded the two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals for its passenger transit client and was in the early stages of procuring and allocating material costs to these more expensive and robust transit-oriented RIPs. Additionally, during that time, the Company was still incurring costs related to the manufacturing and installation of additional Rail Inspection Portals for two other Class 1 customers, thereby contributing to the decrease in cost of revenues year-over-year. The Company also continues to face headwinds with supply disruption and cost. While we expect that macro-economic factors will continue to drive prices, the Company continues to manage its costs and, where possible, pass through increased costs to customers in the form of higher prices, although this is not assured. Cost of revenues on services and consulting slightly increased in the three months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the prior year period. The rise in cost can be attributed to higher labor costs as well as costs associated with new portals coming online during early 2023, as opposed to the corresponding period in 2022. Gross Margin For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Revenues $ 1,770,059 $ 3,617,142 -51 % Cost of revenues 1,528,722 2,334,528 -35 % Gross margin $ 241,337 $ 1,282,614 -81 % Gross margin decreased for the second quarter of 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. As noted above, the decrease in margin was a direct result of the timing of business activity in the second quarter of 2023 related to the manufacturing of two high-speed, transit-focused Rail Inspection Portals for one customer. During the second quarter of 2022, these same two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals had just been awarded and were in the early procurement and design phase contributing little in terms of revenue or gross margin. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2022, we were in the advanced stages of manufacturing and installing two freight-oriented Rail Inspection Portals for two customers. The additional freight RIP activity during the second quarter of 2022 resulted in additional revenue and margin compared to the same period in 2023. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor into those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. 28 Operating Expenses For the Three Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 301,077 $ 375,986 -20 % Research and development 537,801 530,339 1 % General and administration 2,550,709 1,770,764 44 % Total operating expenses $ 3,389,587 $ 2,677,089 27 % During the three months ended June 30, 2023, the Company experienced a slight increase in overall operating expenses compared to the same period in 2022. Sales and marketing costs saw only marginal decreases, while research and development expenses increased slightly. The largest increase was observed in general and administration costs, which can be primarily attributed to the timing of the Company's awarding of discretionary performance-based compensation that took effect in April 2023. Overall, the Company continues to focus on stabilizing operating expenses while meeting the increased needs of our customers. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor into those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 was $3,148,250 and $1,394,475, respectively. The increase in loss from operations was primarily the result of lower revenues recorded in the quarter as a consequence of delays in going to field for the two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals for a passenger transit client, offset by continued increase in services and consulting revenue. Other Income/Expense Other income for the three months ended June 30, 2023 was $162,080 and $54,509 for the comparative period in 2022. Interest expense for the three months ended June 30, 2023 was $3,230 and $2,706 for the comparative period in 2022. Net Loss The net loss for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 was $2,989,400 and $1,342,672, respectively. The 123% increase in net loss was mostly attributed to the decrease in revenues as described above from timing delays along with growing expenses. Net loss per common share was $0.42 and $0.22 for the three months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Comparison for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 Compared to Six Months Ended June 30, 2022 The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations and is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 Revenues $ 4,414,347 $ 5,056,458 Cost of revenues 3,635,838 3,551,778 Gross margin 778,509 1,504,680 Operating expenses 6,073,557 5,540,773 Loss from operations (5,295,048 ) (4,036,093 ) Other income (expense) 161,965 48,805 Net loss $ (5,133,083 ) $ (3,987,288 ) Revenues For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 2,698,258 $ 3,563,314 -24 % Services and consulting 1,716,089 1,493,144 15 % Total revenues $ 4,414,347 $ 5,056,458 -13 % The decrease in overall revenues for the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the six months ended June 30, 2022, is primarily attributed to delays outside of the Companys control with ongoing production and manufacturing of our two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals for a passenger transit client, which are recorded in the technology systems portion of our business. During the second quarter of 2022, when these same two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals had only just been awarded and were in the early procurement and design phase, we were also in the advanced stages of manufacturing and installing two additional Rail Inspection Portals. We expect timing to continue to be a challenge through 2023, although supply chain issues have continued to extend deadlines for shipment of key components used in our technology systems and continue to pose a risk to the timing of revenue recognition. Given recent attention and renewed focus around railway safety, the Company remains optimistic about its long-term outlook. We believe the focus on rail safety will prompt additional government oversight on railroads for the implementation of safety systems such as the Companys RIP product. Additionally, the Company sees opportunities to continue to expand its programs with existing customers during the current year and beyond. In spite of a positive outlook, the noted slowing of the supply chain coupled with a longer commercial cycle may result in revenue recognition pushing into 2024. The Company remains focused on revenue and margins performance impacts from inflation and continued supply chain challenges and proactively works to address these issues via customer pricing. The growth of the services portion of revenues is driven by the successful completion and implementation of artificial intelligence detections and represents services and support for those detections. The growth in services revenue is also bolstered by the phasing in of services and maintenance agreements related to new portals coming online during early 2023. The Company expects growth with new revenue from existing customers, including services revenue as the result of new maintenance contracts being established on installations coming on-line during 2023. The Company also anticipates renewals of existing and backlog contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being manufactured and completed during 2023. 29 Cost of Revenues For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 2,839,315 $ 2,839,790 0 % Services and consulting 796,523 711,988 12 % Total cost of revenues $ 3,635,838 $ 3,551,778 2 % Cost of revenues largely comprises equipment and labor necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems and software projects. Cost of revenues on technology systems remained flat during the six months ended June 30, 2023 over the equivalent period in 2022. In the second quarter of 2022, the Company was awarded two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals for its passenger transit client and by the second quarter of 2023 has phased into the manufacture of these two more expensive and more robust transit-oriented RIPs. By comparison, during the second quarter ended June 30, 2022, the Company had only begun to procure the components for, and the manufacturing of, these two transit-oriented RIPs, but were also in the advanced stages of manufacturing and installing two additional freight-oriented RIPS, thereby resulting in flat year-over-year cost of revenues. The Company also continues to face headwinds with supply disruption and cost. While we expect that macro-economic factors will continue to drive prices, the Company continues to manage its costs and, where possible, pass through increased costs to customers in the form of higher prices, although this is not assured. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor into those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. Cost of revenues on services and consulting slightly increased in the six months ended June 30, 2023 compared to the prior year period. The marginal rise in cost can be attributed to higher labor costs as well as costs associated with new portals that came online during early 2023, as opposed to the corresponding period in 2022. Gross Margin For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Revenues $ 4,414,347 $ 5,056,458 -13 % Cost of revenues 3,635,838 3,551,778 2 % Gross margin $ 778,509 $ 1,504,680 -48 % Gross margin decreased for the six months ended on June 30, 2023 as compared to the same period in 2022. As noted above, the decrease in margin was a direct result of the timing of business activity in the second quarter of 2023 related to the manufacturing of two high-speed, transit-focused Rail Inspection Portals for one customer. During the second quarter of 2022, these same two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals had just been awarded and were in the early procurement and design phase, we were also in the advanced stages of manufacturing and installing two additional freight-oriented Rail Inspection Portals for two customers resulting in additional revenue and margin compared to the same period in 2023. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor into those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. 30 Operating Expenses For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 608,654 $ 659,880 -8 % Research and development 942,686 967,056 -3 % General and administration 4,522,217 3,913,837 16 % Total operating expenses $ 6,073,557 $ 5,540,773 10 % During the six months ended June 30, 2023, overall operating expenses experienced a slight increase compared to the equivalent period in 2022. The Company managed to maintain its costs for sales and marketing, and research and development at a consistent level, while observing a slight rise in general and administration costs. This increase can be primarily attributed to the timing of performance-based bonuses awarded in 2023 compared to the same period in 2022. Despite these changes, the Company remains committed to stabilizing operating expenses while meeting the increased needs of our customers. Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 was $5,295,048 and $4,036,093, respectively. The increase in loss from operations was primarily the result of lower revenues recorded in the six months as a consequence of delays in going to field for the two high-speed Rail Inspection Portals for a passenger transit client, offset by continued increase in services and consulting revenue. Other Income/Expense Other income for the six months ended June 30, 2023 was $166,375 and $54,691 for the comparative period in 2022. Interest expense for the six months ended June 30, 2023 was $4,410 and $5,886 for the comparative period in 2022. Net Loss The net loss for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 was $5,133,083 and $3,987,288, respectively. The 29% increase in net loss was mostly attributed to the decrease in revenues as described above along with growing expenses. Net loss per common share was $0.72 and $0.70 for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of June 30, 2023, the Company has a working capital surplus of $1,256,808 and the Company had a net loss of $5,133,083 for the six months ended June 30, 2023. Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: For the Six Months Ended June 30, 2023 2022 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities $ (1,923,071 ) $ 287,784 Net cash used in investing activities (548,360 ) (169,209 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,802,587 5,256,134 Net increase in cash $ 1,331,156 $ 5,374,709 Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 was $(1,923,071) and $287,784, respectively. The increase in net cash used in operating activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 was the result of cash outflows to procure necessary materials and overall sales, general and administrative expenses offset by cash inflows from milestone payments related to current projects. In addition, there are several changes in assets and liabilities compared to the previous period that increase the use of cash in operating activities, notably the change in contract liabilities due to the timing of project invoicing milestones and cash receipts. 31 Net cash used in investing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023 and 2022 was $548,360 and $169,209, respectively, representing an increase in the purchase of various fixed assets for computer equipment and product and software development. Net cash provided by financing activities for the six months ended June 30, 2023, and 2022 was $3,802,587 and $5,256,134, respectively. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the first six months of 2023 were primarily attributable to net proceeds of approximately $4,000,000 from issuances of Series E Convertible Preferred Stock. Cash flows from financing activities during the first six months of 2022 were primarily attributable to the issuance of common stock for $6,095,000 of gross proceeds. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on the continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. We believe our current capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion and our operations over the next twelve months, although we are dependent on timely payments from our customers for projects and work in process. However, we expect such timely payments to continue. Material cash requirements will be satisfied within the normal course of business including substantial upfront payments from our customers prior to starting projects. The Company may elect to purchase materials and supplies in advance of contract award but where there is a high probability of that award. Demand for our products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. Because a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may continue to be challenged by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Liquidity As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $5,133,083 for the six months ended June 30, 2023. During the same period, cash used in operating activities was $1,923,071. The working capital surplus and accumulated deficit as of June 30, 2023, were $1,256,808 and $57,494,917, respectively. In previous financial reports, the Company had raised substantial doubt about continuing as a going concern. This was principally due to a lack of working capital prior to an underwritten offering and private placements which were completed during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2022 as well as the first and third quarters of 2023. The Company was successful during 2022 in raising gross proceeds of over $10,100,000 from the sale of both common shares and Series D Preferred Stock. Additionally, late in the second quarter of 2023, the Company raised gross proceeds of $4,000,000 from the issuance of Series E Preferred Stock. In August 2023, the Company was successful in raising gross proceeds of $5,000,000 from the sale of Series F Convertible Preferred Stock. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2023, the Company renewed its S-3 shelf registration statement allowing the Company to sell additional common shares. At the time of this filing, the Company estimates that it has available capacity on its shelf registration which it can utilize to bolster working capital and growth of the business. Although additional investment is not assured, the Company is comfortable that it would be able to raise sufficient capital to support expanded operations based on an anticipated increase in business activity. In the long run, the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing its business plan, generate enough revenue, and attain consistently profitable operations. Although the lingering effects of the global pandemic related to the coronavirus (Covid-19) continue to affect our operations, particularly in our supply chain, we now believe that this is expected to be an ongoing issue and our working capital assumptions reflect this new reality. The Company cannot currently quantify the uncertainty related to the ongoing supply chain delays or inflationary increases and their effects on our customers in the coming quarters. We have analyzed our cash flow under stress test conditions and have determined that we have sufficient liquid assets on hand or available via the capital markets to maintain operations for at least twelve months from the date of this report. In addition, management has been taking and continues to take actions including, but not limited to, elimination of certain costs that do not contribute to short term revenue, and re-aligning both management and staffing with a focus on improving certain skill sets necessary to build growth and profitability and focusing product strategy on opportunities that are likely to bear results in the relatively short term. The Company believes that, as described above, it will have sufficient sources of working capital to meet its obligations over the following twelve months. In the last twelve months the Company has seen growth in its contracted backlog as well as positive signs from new commercial engagements that indicate improvements in future commercial opportunities for both one-time capital and recurring services revenues. Management believes that, at this time, the conditions in our market space with ongoing contract delays, the consequent need to procure certain materials in advance of a binding contract and the additional time needed to execute on new contracts previously reported have put a strain on our cash reserves. However, recent common stock offerings and private placements as well as the availability to raise capital via its shelf registration indicate there is no substantial doubt for the Company to continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months. We continue executing the plan to grow our business and achieve profitability. The Company may selectively look at opportunities for fund raising in the future. Management has extensively evaluated our requirements for the next 12 months and has determined that the Company currently has sufficient cash and access to capital to operate for at least that period. 32 While no assurance can be provided, management believes that these actions provide the opportunity for the Company to continue as a going concern and to grow its business and achieve profitability with access to additional capital funding. Ultimately the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing the plan described above which was put in place in late 2022 and will continue in 2023 and beyond. As a result, we expect to generate sufficient revenue and to attain profitable operations with less net cash used in operating activities in the next 12 months. These consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated, and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for employee stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-10, Share-Based Payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option-pricing formula. This fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The Companys determination of fair value using an option-pricing model is affected by the stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly subjective variables. The Company estimates volatility based upon the historical stock price of the Company and estimates the expected term for stock options using the simplified method for employees and directors and the contractual term for non-employees. The risk-free rate is determined based upon the prevailing rate of United States Treasury securities with similar maturities. Revenue Recognition The Company follows Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), that affects the timing of when certain types of revenues will be recognized. The basic principles in ASC 606 include the following: a contract with a customer creates distinct contract assets and performance obligations, satisfaction of a performance obligation creates revenue, and a performance obligation is satisfied upon transfer of control to a good or service to a customer. 33 Revenue is recognized by evaluating our revenue contracts with customers based on the five-step model under ASC 606: 1. Identify the contract with the customer; 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations; and 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. The Company generates revenue from four sources: (1) Technology Systems; (2) AI Technologies; (3) Technical Support and (4) Consulting Services. For revenues related to technology systems, the Company recognizes revenue over time using a cost-based input methodology in which significant judgment is required to estimate costs to complete projects. These estimated costs are then used to determine the progress towards contract completion and the corresponding amount of revenue to recognize. Accordingly, the Company now bases its revenue recognition on ASC 606-10-25-27, where control of a good or service transfers over time if the entitys performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity and the entity has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date including a profit margin or reasonable return on capital. Control is deemed to pass to the customer instantaneously as the goods are manufactured and revenue is recognized accordingly. In addition, the Company has adopted ASC 606-10-55-21 such that if the cost incurred is not proportionate to the progress in satisfying the performance obligation, we adjust the input method to recognize revenue only to the extent of the cost incurred. Therefore, the Company will recognize revenue at an equal amount to the cost of the goods to satisfy the performance obligation. To accurately reflect revenue recognition based on the input method, the Company has adopted the implementation guidance as set out in ASC-606-10-55-187 through 192. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in contract assets. Any billings of customers more than recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in contract liabilities. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. The Company has revenue from applications that incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) in the form of predetermined algorithms which provide important operating information to the users of our systems. The revenue generated from these applications of AI consists of a fixed fee related to the design, development, testing and incorporation of new algorithms into the system, which is recognized as revenue at a point in time upon acceptance, as well as an annual application maintenance fee, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the contracted maintenance term. Technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized over time ratably over the term of the contract. The Companys consulting services business generates revenues under contracts with customers from four sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting and auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales; (3) Customer service training and (4) Maintenance support. (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) For all periods reflected in this report, software license sales have been one-time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third-party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly, the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short-term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one-year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. 34 Multiple Performance Obligations and Allocation of Transaction Price Arrangements with customers may involve multiple performance obligations including project revenue and maintenance services in our Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our consulting services business, multiple performance obligations may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for a multiple performance obligations arrangement is as follows: Each performance obligation is accounted for separately when each has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each performance obligations is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for performance obligations sold in single performance obligation arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells its various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of performance obligations relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple performance obligations arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, and notes receivable, valuation common stock warrants received in exchange for an asset sale, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of net contract revenues and the total estimated costs to determine progress towards contract completion, valuation of inventory, estimates of the valuation of right of use assets and corresponding lease liabilities, valuation of warrants issued with debt, and valuation of stock-based awards. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.