Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Form 10-K and other reports filed by the Company from time to time with the from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview We intend for this discussion to provide information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. 23 Our Company Duos Technologies Group, Inc. was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 (the Company) under the original name of Information Systems Associates, Inc. (ISA). Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and the development and licensing of information technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, ISA entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (duostech), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015, whereby duostech became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. duostech was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, employs approximately 50 people and is a technology and software applications company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property. The Companys core competencies, including advanced intelligent technologies, are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform, centraco. Plan of Operation The Company, through its operating subsidiary duostech, is primarily engaged in the design and deployment of advanced, artificial intelligence driven intelligent technologies systems. The Company converges traditional security measures with information technologies to create actionable intelligence. The Companys growth strategy includes expansion of its technology base through organic development efforts, strategic partnerships, and through strategic acquisitions. The Company provides its broad range of technology solutions with an emphasis on mission critical security, inspection and operations within the rail transportation, commercial, petrochemical, government, and banking sectors. The Company also offers professional and consulting services for large data centers. Specifically, based upon the current and anticipated business growth, the Company is investing in resources to focus on execution within its target markets, including but not limited to rail, distribution centers and security. We continue to evaluate key requirements within those markets and add development resources to allow us to compete for additional projects to drive additional revenue growth. Further, the Company is broadening its offerings in the IT asset management (ITAM) space for large data centers. During the quarter ended June 30, 2018, the Company announced its new dcVue software platform which is the basis for expanded offerings into this market area. The dcVue offering is a new software platform that replaces the Companys On-Site Physical Inventory (OSPI) system that was commercially marketed from 2010 until 2015. OSPI was used by Duos ITAM auditing teams until early this year and has now been replaced by dcVue. dcVue is based upon the Companys OSPI patent which was awarded in 2010. The Company will be making dcVue available for license to our customers later this year as a licensed software product. We intend to further develop our ITAM offerings for large data centers with the objective of offering existing Company technologies for data and video analytics. The Company implemented a new plan to expand and focus its sales efforts through the addition of strategic partners. Prospects and Outlook Over the past several years, we have made substantial investments in product research and development and achieved significant milestones in the development of our technology and turnkey solutions. We have made significant progress in penetrating the market with our proprietary technology solutions, specifically in the rail industry which is currently undergoing a major shift in maintenance strategies. We believe that this shift will be a significant motivating factor for the industrys use of our technologies. Our business success in the immediate future will largely depend on the increased penetration into our target markets for our proprietary intelligent analytical technology solutions. Notwithstanding the above, no assurance can be provided that our product offerings will generate the market acceptance and orders that we contemplate. 24 Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this report. For the year ended December 31, 2018 compared to December 31, 2017 The following table sets forth a modified version of our Consolidated Statements of Operations that is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 Revenue $ 12,048,619 $ 3,884,588 Cost of revenue 6,844,396 2,294,552 Gross profit 5,204,223 1,590,036 Operating expenses 6,774,127 5,033,529 Income (Loss) from operations (1,569,904 ) (3,443,493 ) Other income (expense) (10,983 ) (1,708,983 ) Net income (loss) (1,580,887 ) (5,152,477 ) Series A preferred stock dividends (17,760 ) Net income (loss) applicable to common stock $ (1,580,887 ) $ (5,170,237 ) Revenues For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 % Change Revenues: Projects $ 10,753,926 $ 1,884,079 471% Maintenance and technical support 1,170,215 1,127,932 4% IT asset management services 124,478 872,577 -86% Total revenue $ 12,048,619 $ 3,884,588 210% The significant increase in overall revenues is driven by the current strength of the projects portion of our business currently being undertaken. The Companys stable capital structure enables us to more aggressively pursue large projects requiring the ability to deploy major resources. The significant increase in project revenues was also accompanied by an increase in maintenance and technical support. This revenue source has been in transition for the past year as older legacy systems are replaced by the next generation of technology systems which are currently being installed. There is typically a lag of approximately 6 months installation of a new system until the recurring revenue is recognized. The Company continues to replace the declining revenues from one customer with new, long term recurring revenue from new customers which will be coming on-line in the next several months. The maintenance and technical support revenues are driven by successful completion on projects and represent services and support for those installations. The expectation is that revenues from this area will be flat for the first half of 2019 and then begin to grow based on the success of multiple installations in 2018. The ITAM division experienced a significant reduction in revenues for 2018. This was the result of the conclusion of a large project late in 2017 and delays in starting a new project that was anticipated to begin earlier in 2018. The new project is now expected to begin in the second quarter of 2019. The ITAM division also released a new version of its software which is anticipated to broaden market acceptance of its offerings and we anticipate a positive impact on revenues anticipated in 2019. 25 Cost of Revenues For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 % Change Cost of revenues: Projects $ 6,373,684 $ 1,487,516 328% Maintenance and technical support 409,316 458,960 -11% IT asset management services 61,396 348,076 -82% Total cost of revenues $ 6,844,396 $ 2,294,552 198% Cost of revenues on projects increased at a slower rate than the increase in revenues. The overall gross margin was positively impacted during the period compared to the equivalent period in 2017 due to tighter cost controls on production of systems and the efficiencies gained through the implementation of projects at the Operations and Engineering Center prior to customer deployment. Cost of Revenues decreased by 11% on maintenance and technical support which is a positive trend against an increase in revenues and we expect this trend to continue as economies of scale begin to have a positive impact. The Company also completed certain field work at the request of two major clients which increased revenue but at a margin that is less than in the normal course of business. The effect of this is anticipated to be minimal going forward. Gross Profit For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 % Change Revenues $ 12,048,619 $ 3,884,588 210% Cost of revenues 6,844,396 2,294,552 198% Gross profit $ 5,204,223 $ 1,590,036 227% Gross Profit was $5,204,223 or 43% of revenues compared to $1,590,036 or 41% of revenues for the twelve months ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The overall increase in gross profit of 227% was mainly the result of the increase in project revenues and the positive effect of significant revenue increases from new projects. It should be noted that the accounting treatment was changed to the ASC 606 reporting standard and that the results compared with the previous year are not strictly comparable. As previously discussed, the implementation of ASC 606 covering revenue from contracts with customers, has a temporary impact on overall gross margin as certain costs are recognized ahead of revenues. Also, during the year, certain project revenue related to the management of construction requested by two customers were treated as a pass through and have between a 10% and a 25% gross margin. This has a negative overall effect on the typical project gross margin for an aggregate of our revenue sources of at least 50%. Despite these factors, the Company recorded an overall increase in Gross Margin for the year compared to the prior year which is a positive trend. Management anticipates the overall gross margins for the business to continue to improve in the coming year excluding the impact of one-off lower margin revenues related to field construction work requested by the customer and not in the ordinary course of business. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2018 2017 % Change Operating expenses: Selling and marketing expenses $ 289,140 $ 179,318 61% Salaries, wages and contract labor 4,299,799 3,098,782 39% Research and development 488,694 310,099 58% Professional fees 245,033 393,531 -38% General and administration 1,451,461 1,051,799 38% Total operating expense $ 6,774,127 $ 5,033,529 35% 26 Operating expenses were higher by 35% for the year reflecting the increase in resources related to the significant increase in revenues for the period. Selling and marketing expenses and research and development both increased with the Companys investment in resources to grow the business. The Company also began investing in its resources for the development of the new truevue360 AI platform. The 39% increase in salaries, wages and contract labor is due to a planned increase in the number of employees and additional contract expenses related to an overall significant increase in revenues. This rate of increase is expected to slow in 2019. Professional fees were 38% lower due to a reduction in expenses related to legal fees and prudent management of expenses by management. Other G&A costs increased but were in line with the additional staff expenses and the growth of the Company. It is anticipated that overall operating expenses will grow at a slower rate than the revenue increases. Loss From Operations The losses from operations for the years ended, December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $1,569,904 and $3,443,493, respectively. This is a 54% reduction in loss as the Company moves toward breakeven and profitability. Interest Expense Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $17,180 and $4,519,035 respectively. The significant decrease in interest expense was primarily due to the Companys non-cash debt expenses related to certain financing actions prior to completing the capital raise at the end of November 2017. In addition to being non-cash, the expenses were driven by interest expense related to certain warrants which required accounting as derivatives. Some of these extraordinary costs were offset by an overall non-cash gain recorded due to the valuations recorded in those derivative instruments. The affected warrants were cancelled and retired at the end of 2017 and will have no impact on the Companys financial results going forward. Other Income Other income for the years ending December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $6,197 and $1,719 respectively. Net Loss The net loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 was $1,580,887 and $5,152,477 respectively. The $3,571,590 decrease in net loss is primarily attributable to the increase in revenue and less than proportionate increase cost of revenue in 2018. Net loss applicable to Common Stock was $1,580,887 in 2018 versus $5,170,237 in 2017, a decrease of $3,589,350. Most of the difference between Operating Losses and Net Losses were non-cash in nature. Additionally, the loss in 2017 included a charge for Series A Preferred Stock Dividends of $17,760. Net loss per common share was $0.08 and $1.43 for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2018, the Company has a cash balance of $1,209,301. Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Net cash used in operating activities $ (345,287 ) $ (3,562,306 ) Net cash used in investing activities (285,678 ) (41,709 ) Net cash used/provided in financing activities (101,552 ) 5,371,457 Net (decrease) increase in cash $ (732,517 ) $ 1,767,442 Net cash used in operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $345,287 and $3,562,306 respectively. The decrease in net cash used in operations for the year ended December 31, 2018 was almost exclusively due to a more than $2 million increase in contract liabilities. 27 Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 were $285,678 and $41,709, respectively representing an increase in investments in software development and lab equipment during 2018. Net cash used in financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018 was $101,552 and cash flows provided in the year ended December 31, 2017 was $5,371,457. Cash flows used in financing activities during 2018 were primarily attributable to repayments of existing notes and short-term credit facilities. Cash flows provided by financing activities during 2017 were primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuance of common stock, offset by repayments of existing notes and short-term credit facilities. Previously, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. During 2018, we have funded our operations through revenues generated and cash received from ongoing project execution and associated maintenance revenues. As of April 5, 2019, we had cash on hand of approximately $1,451,000. We have approximately $135,000 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Our current capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion although we are dependent on timely payments by our customers for projects and work in process. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods although these are not considered to be a factor at present. Going Concern and Liquidity Under Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (ASC 205-40), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40. As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company had a negative working capital of $469,081 and an accumulated deficit of $30,269,833 at December 31, 2018. During the same period in 2017, the Company had a positive working capital of $550,332 and an accumulated deficit of $28,688,946. The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared assuming the Company can continue as a going concern, which contemplates continuity of operations through realization of assets, and the settling of liabilities in the normal course of business. While our auditor has expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern, managements assessment is that with the current cash on hand, business backlog and expected orders, and anticipated cash raised from warrant exercises, that the Company will continue as Going Concern for at least 12 months from the date of this report. Our plan regarding these matters is to closely monitor our progress against our documented pro-forma financial plan, manage expenses accordingly to allow us the ability to cover our current cash flow requirements and meet our obligations as they become due. If this is insufficient due to unforeseen circumstances, there can be no assurances that financing will be available or if available, that such financing will be available under favorable terms. Management believes that the Company has reached the point where anticipated profitable operations from current backlog in the final quarter of the year will allow continuation as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from the date these financial statements have been issued. The ability to recognize revenue and ultimately cash receipts is contingent upon, but not limited to, acceptable performance of the delivered services. If the Company is unable to complete on some of its revenue producing opportunities in the near term, the ability to continue as a going concern based on managements assessment may be impacted. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. 28 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of net contract revenues and the total estimated costs to determine progress toward contract completion, valuation of derivatives, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt and valuation of stock-based awards. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Revenue Recognition and Contract Accounting The Company generates revenue from three sources: (1) Project Revenue; (2) Maintenance and Technical Support and (3) IT Asset Management (consulting and auditing). Project Revenue The Company constructs intelligent technology systems consisting of materials and labor under customer contracts. Revenues and related costs on project revenue are recognized based on ASC 606-10-25-27, where control of a good or service transfers over time if the entitys performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity and the entity has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date including a profit margin or reasonable return on capital. Control is deemed to pass to the customer instantaneously as the goods are manufactured and revenue is recognized accordingly. In addition, the Company has adopted ASC 606-10-55-21 such that if the cost incurred is not proportionate to the progress in satisfying the performance obligation, we adjust the input method to recognize revenue only to the extent of the cost incurred. Therefore, the Company will recognize revenue at an equal amount to the cost of the goods to satisfy the performance obligation. To accurately reflect revenue recognition based on the input method, the Company has adopted the implementation guidance as set out in ASC 606-10-55-187 through 192. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in contract assets. Any billings of customers more than recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in contract liabilities. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. Maintenance and Technical Support Maintenance and technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements such as professional services, which are of short-term duration, revenues are recognized when services are completed. 29 IT Asset Management Services The Company recognizes revenue from its IT asset management business in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605-25 which addresses Revenue Recognition for the software industry. The general criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 985-605 for our Company, which sells software licenses, which do not require any significant modification or customization, is that revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. The Companys IT asset management business generates revenues from three sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting and auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales and (3) Customer Service (training and maintenance support). For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements: (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) For all periods reflected in this report, software license sales have been one-time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly, the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short-term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one-year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. Multiple Elements Arrangements with customers may involve multiple elements including project revenue and maintenance services in our Intelligent Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our IT Asset Management business, multiple elements may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for multiple element arrangement is as follows: Each element is accounted for separately when each element has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each element is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for elements sold in non-multiple element arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells its various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of multiple element relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple element arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated, and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. 30 Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates the recoverability of its property, equipment, and other long-lived assets in accordance with FASB ASC 360-10-35-15 Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which requires recognition of impairment of long-lived assets in the event the net book value of such assets exceed the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets or the business to which such intangible assets relate. This guidance requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.