Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Form 10-K and other reports filed by the Company from time to time with the SEC (collectively, the Filings) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the Filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks relating to the Companys business, industry, and the Companys operations and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. 22 Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview We intend for this discussion to provide information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. Our Company Duos Technologies Group was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 (the Company) under the original name of Information Systems Associates (ISA). Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and development and licensing of Information Technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, ISA entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (DTI), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015. DTI was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, employs approximately 36 people and is a technology company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property, with core competencies that include advanced intelligent technologies that are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform. Plan of Operation The Company through its operating subsidiary DTI is primarily engaged in the design and deployment of state-of-the-art, artificial intelligence driven intelligent technologies systems. The Company converges traditional security measures with information technologies to create actionable intelligence. The Companys strategy includes continued expansion of its technology base through organic development efforts, strategic partnerships, and growth through strategic acquisitions. The Companys primary target industry sectors include transportation, with emphasis on freight and transit railroad owners/operators, petro-chemical, utilities and healthcare. The plan of operation of the next 12 months is to continue to pursue key target markets described and expand the offerings within those markets as available capital allows. Specifically, based upon the most recent capital raise, the Company is investing in sales and marketing resources to broaden its reach into the target markets, evaluate key requirements within those markets and add development resources to allow us to compete for additional projects in order to drive revenue growth. In addition, the original business of IT Asset Management (ITAM) services for large data centers is now operated as a division of the Company that continues its sales efforts through large strategic partners. Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this report. For the years ended December 31, 2017 compared to December 31, 2016 23 Revenues Revenues were $3,884,588 and $6,104,893 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The comparative 36% decrease in revenue during 2017 was due to a significant delay in the closure of an $11 million capital raise that was anticipated to close by the end of 2 nd Quarter and did not actually close until 6 months later. The Companys operations were severely disrupted due to the inability to secure key personnel for business development and project execution within the Companys main business focus leading to delays in recognizing revenue. Additionally, a forecasted decrease of $1.1 million in maintenance and technical support services due to a transition of market focus also had a negative effect on revenue and the decrease in maintenance and technical support of more than 49% was due to the expiration of several service contracts. This was partially offset with an increase in the Companys IT asset management services of $198K representing an increase of more than 29% growth in that business. Cost of Revenues Costs of revenues were $2,294,552 and $2,732,451 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in 2017 cost of revenues is due to the decrease in project revenue as well as in maintenance and technical support. Although, the decline in cost of revenues was lower than the associated decline in revenues, this is considered to be a temporary shift in the project costs due to the nature of the business transition, where more of the revenue in 2017 was from prototype systems. There was a budgeted decrease in gross margins on several projects which are classified as pilot projects with expectations of recurring business in 2018. The increase in cost of the IT asset management services is in line with the increase in revenue in this category. Gross Profit Gross Profits were $1,590,036 and $3,372,442 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in 2017 resulted from the decrease in revenue by approximately the same percentage. Lower margins in the project business and lower costs overall in the maintenance and technical support areas resulted in a reduction of 16% in overall gross margin versus a reduction of 36% in overall revenues. More aggressive pricing in the award of a large contract that makes up much of the revenue in that business line, reduced the overall gross margins compared to the previous year. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $5,033,529 and $5,116,548 respectively, a decrease of $83,019. There was an overall decrease in selling and marketing, salaries, wages and contract labor. The increase in research and development expenses was a conscious decision by management to pre-invest in certain resources and skill-sets that would be necessary to continue the Companys growth strategy. Our expenses also increased in professional services and general and administration expenses because of cost related to operating as a public company and were higher overall due to a capital raise that was in progress for most 2017. There is no expectation to raise funds in 2018 and therefore we believe these costs will be reduced accordingly. We may however, be increasing expenditures for sales and marketing to support higher revenue growth going forward. Loss From Operations The loss from operations for the years ended, December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $3,443,494 and $1,744,106, respectively. The increase in loss from operations was due to the overall decrease in revenue and lower than normal gross margins. Interest Expense Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $4,519,035 and $561,174 respectively. The significant increase in interest expense was primarily due to the Companys non-cash debt expenses related to certain financing actions prior to completing the capital raise at the end of November 2017. In addition to being non-cash, the expenses were driven by interest expense related to certain warrants which required accounting as derivatives. Some of these extraordinary costs were offset by an overall non-cash gain recorded due to the valuations recorded in those derivative instruments. The affected warrants were cancelled and retired at the end of 2017 and will have no impact on the Companys financial results going forward. Other Income Other income for the years ending December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $1,719 and $7,766 respectively. 24 Net Loss The net loss for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was $5,152,477 and $2,561,613 respectively. The $2,590,864 increase in net loss is primarily attributable to the decrease in revenue and less than proportionate decrease cost of revenue in 2017. Net loss applicable to Common Stock was $5,170,237 in 2017 versus $2,567,533 in 2016, an increase of $2,602,704. Most of the difference between Operating Losses and Net Losses were non-cash in nature. Additionally, the loss in 2017 included a charge for Series A Preferred Stock Dividends of $17,760. Net loss per common share was $1.43 and $1.36 for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows used in operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $3,562,306 and $1,840,290, respectively. Cash flows used in operations for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were due primarily to the net operating losses for the years. In addition, cash flow was positively impacted by approximately $10 million in new equity of which approximately $5 million was used to retire long and short-term debt. Cash flows used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $41,709 and $35,415, respectively representing an increase in investments in certain assets during 2017. Cash flows provided by financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were $5,371,457 and $1,909,952, respectively. Cash flows from financing activities during 2017 were primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuances of new equity and offset by repayments of existing notes and short-term credit facilities and the redemption of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and accrued dividends. Cash flows from financing activities during 2016 were primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuances of new notes payable and related party notes, partially offset by repayments of existing notes and short-term credit facilities. Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. As of March 27, 2018, we had cash on hand of approximately $441,000. We have approximately $131,000 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. As previously disclosed, on March 31, 2016, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with an accredited investor for non-convertible debt financing in the gross amount of $1.8 million less a 5% original issue discount. We closed the debt financing on April 1, 2016. This was recorded on the balance sheet as long-term debt and as of December 31, 2017, the total amount of $2 million including accrued interest and pre-payment penalties was repaid with $1.5 million in cash and issuing stock and warrants in accordance with the November 24, 2017 financing for $500,000. On December 20, 2016, we entered a bridge financing Securities Purchase Agreement with an accredited investor for non-convertible debt financing in the amount up to $2,500,000. Our first draw was in the amount of $575,000 net of an OID of $30,263. The loan agreement contemplates a series of corporate actions leading to the Company raising $10 million in a registered offering. The loan was payable on the earlier of May 15, 2017 or the third business day after the closing of the Public Offering pursuant to the Note. The lender provided the Company an additional $925,000 advance under the Note in tranches, as certain milestones, contained within the Note, were achieved. The lender made further advances of $500,000. In connection with the Companys November 24, 2017 financing , the lender agreed to convert the entire amount of $2,105,263, which included OID and interest into stock and warrants. The lender advanced a further $75,000 to assist the Company in sustaining operations which was repaid in December 2017 in the amount of $103,125 including OID and interest. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by delays in project acceptance, increased activity from our competitors and any prolonged recession periods. Our auditor has expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern . Our plan regarding these matters is to use the recent funds generated from the capital raise to invest in business development and project execution resources to allow us the ability to cover our current cash flow requirements and meet our obligations as they become due. If we are unable to generate adequate revenues to cover expenses we may be required to seek additional capital investment, which cannot be assured. 25 Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of percentage completion on projects and related revenues, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of derivatives, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt, valuation of stock-based awards and valuation of loss contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Revenue Recognition and Contract Accounting The Company generates revenue from three sources: (1) Project Revenue; (2) Maintenance and Technical Support and (3) IT Asset Management (consulting and auditing). Project Revenue The Company constructs intelligent technology systems consisting of materials and labor under customer contracts. Revenues and related costs on project revenue are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting in accordance with ASC 605-35, Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred as a percentage of total estimated costs for the entirety of the contract. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. Any billings of customers in excess of recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. A contract is considered complete when all costs except insignificant items have been incurred and the installation is operating according to specifications or has been accepted by the customer. The Company has contracts in various stages of completion. Such contracts require estimates to determine the appropriate cost and revenue recognition. Costs estimates are reviewed periodically on a contract-by-contract basis throughout the life of the contract such that adjustments to the profit resulting from revisions are made cumulative to the date of the revision. Significant management judgments and estimates, including the estimated costs to complete projects, must be made and used in connection with the revenue recognized in the accounting period. Current estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available. Maintenance and Technical Support Maintenance and technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements such as professional services, which are of short-term duration, revenues are recognized when services are completed. 26 IT Asset Management Services The Company recognizes revenue from its IT asset management business in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605-25 which addresses Revenue Recognition for the software industry. The general criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 985-605 for our Company, which sells software licenses, which do not require any significant modification or customization, is that revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. The Companys IT asset management business generates revenues from three sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting and auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales and (3) Customer Service (training and maintenance support). For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements: (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) For all periods reflected in this report, software license sales have been one-time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly, the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short-term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one-year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. Multiple Elements Arrangements with customers may involve multiple elements including project revenue and maintenance services in our Intelligent Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our IT Asset Management business, multiple elements may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for multiple element arrangement is as follows: Each element is accounted for separately when each element has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each element is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for elements sold in non-multiple element arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells its various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of multiple element relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple element arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. 27 Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates the recoverability of its property, equipment, and other long-lived assets in accordance with FASB ASC 360-10-35-15 Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which requires recognition of impairment of long-lived assets in the event the net book value of such assets exceed the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets or the business to which such intangible assets relate. This guidance requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Derivative Instruments ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging (ASC Topic 815), establishes accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments and for hedging activities by requiring that all derivatives be recognized in the balance sheet and measured at fair value. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognized in earnings or recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) depending on the purpose of the derivatives and whether they qualify and have been designated for hedge accounting treatment.