Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by Duos Technologies Group, Inc., and its operating subsidiary, Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos) (Duos Technologies Group, Inc. and Duos, collectively the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, aim, project, target, will, may, should, forecast or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements typically address the Companys expected future business and financial performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, the Companys ability to generate sufficient cash to continue and expand operations, the competitive environment generally and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in technology, the availability of and the terms of financing, changes in costs and availability of goods and services, economic conditions in general and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in federal, state and/or local government laws and regulations potentially affecting the use of the Companys technology, changes in operating strategy or development plans and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company cautions that the foregoing list of risks, uncertainties and factors is not exclusive. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Companys most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings filed by the Company with the SEC, which are available at the SECs website, http://www.sec.gov. The Company believes its plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that the Company will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations. Indeed, it is likely that some of the Companys assumptions may prove to be incorrect. The Companys actual results and financial position may vary from those projected or implied in the forward-looking statements and the variances may be material. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement. We do not undertake or accept any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based, except as required by law. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the Company or other matters attributable to the Company or any person acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements above. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview The Company, operating under its brand name duostech, develops and deploys technology systems with focus on inspecting and evaluating moving vehicles. Its technology focus is within the Vision Technology market sector and, more specifically, the Machine Vision subsector. Machine Vision companies provide imaging-based automatic inspection and analysis for process control for industry with potential expansion into other markets. Duos has developed key technologies over the past several years in software, industry specific hardware and artificial intelligence and has demonstrated industrial strength usability of its systems supporting rail, logistics and intermodal businesses that streamline operations, improve safety and reduce costs. Our team includes engineering subject matter expertise in hardware, software, and information technology as well as industry specific applications of artificial intelligence also referred to as Expert Artificial Intelligence. We also have specific industry experts in the rail industry on staff and as consultants. 28 Duos is currently developing industry solutions for its target markets which will address rail, trucking, aviation and other vehicle-based processes. Duos initial offering, the Railcar Inspection Portal (RIP), provides both freight and transit railroad customers and select government agencies the ability to conduct fully remote railcar inspections of trains while they are moving at full speed. The RIP utilizes a variety of sophisticated optical, laser and speed sensors to scan each passing railcar to create a high-resolution image-set of the top, sides and undercarriage. These images are then processed with our edge data center using artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms to identify safety and security defects on each railcar. The algorithms are developed in conjunction with industrial application experts, in this case resident Railcar Mechanical Engineers, to provide specific guidance in the analysis (human in the loop). Within seconds of the railcar passing through the RIP, a detailed report is sent to the customer where they are able to take action on identified issues. This solution has the potential to transform the railroad industry immediately increasing safety, improving efficiency and reducing costs. The Company has already deployed this system with several Class 1 railroads and anticipates an increased demand from transit and other railroad customers along with selected government agencies that operate and/or manage rail traffic. The Company has deployed RIPs in Canada, Mexico and the United States and anticipates expanding this solution into Europe, Asia and the Middle East in coming years. The Company has also developed the Automated Logistics Information System (ALIS) which automates gatehouse operations where transport trucks enter and exit large logistics and intermodal facilities. This solution incorporates a similar set of sensors, data processing and artificial intelligence to streamline the customers logistics transactions and tracking and can also automate the security and safety inspection if called for. The Company is evaluating other solutions for moving vehicles including aircraft, which could provide similar benefits in terms of safety and efficiency for required inspections as part of an operations process. The Company is not currently actively pursing further customers for ALIS but will continue to analyze the potential market and expects to deploy an upgraded Truck Inspector Portal (TIP) which uses the same technology and lessons learned from ALIS and RIP systems at some point in the future. We have developed two proprietary solutions that operate our software and artificial intelligence.centraco is an Enterprise Information Management Software platform that consolidates data and events from multiple sources into a unified and distributive user interface. Customized to the end users Concept of Operations (CONOPS), it provides improved situational awareness and data visualization for operational objectives compared to traditional manual inspections. truevue360 is our fully integrated platform that we utilize to develop and deploy Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithms, including Machine Learning, Computer Vision, Object Detection and Deep Neural Network-based processing for real-time applications. These same Artificial Intelligence applications have begun to open up other opportunities for the Company to provide revenue producing solutions with potentially high market adoption. In 2021, the Company ended support of its IT Asset Management (ITAM) solution which cataloged results for data center asset inventory and audit services. We are currently evaluating using our current operations experience within edge data centers (as deployed for our Railcar Inspection Portal) to drive additional revenues within other markets requiring this type of solution although no specific offering has been developed at this time. In the last quarter of 2022, the Company elected not to renew a support contract for its Integrated Correctional Automation System (iCAS) for one customer. The Company subsequently sold its iCAS assets to a buyer during the second quarter of 2023 for $165,000 via a convertible note. The year 2022 ushered in a new phase in the Companys development. Although we continue to see an extension of challenges faced in past years, we also see positive changes and opportunities for our business that will be discussed in greater detail herein. They include: Introducing a new subscription based offering for access to data and images by a much broader target market including Class 1 railroads, railcar owners and lessors, and short-line railroads. Owning and operating a network of RIPs with multiple subscribers outside of the Companys traditional customer base. Selling customized RIPs to Class 1, short-line and other industrial companies where specialized applications or routes demand a bespoke solution. 29 Prospects and Outlook The Companys focus for the last several years was to improve operational and technical execution which will continue into the foreseeable future. This we expect will enable the commercial side of the business to expand delivery of the Companys products and services into existing customers and to expand and diversify our current customer base as well as enter new markets. The Companys primary customers have indicated readiness to order more equipment and services should the Company execute as expected on key deliverables. With the Company working toward a subscription platform approach for current and planned offerings and its expansion of its artificial intelligence offering, this will also open up additional commercial avenues to the Company. Historically, the Company has been focused on large, one-time sales with the subscription opportunities representing an expanded addressable market with an increasing emphasis on recurring revenues. The Company is making engineering and software upgrades to the RIP to meet anticipated Federal Railroad Association (FRA) and Association of American Railroad (AAR) standards. In addition, the Company is expanding its offerings by taking subsets of its integrated RIP and associated products and pursuing revenues outside of its traditional markets. Both the products upgrades and the additional offerings will continue to be released throughout 2024 and are expected to drive revenue growth this year and beyond. The Company expanded its focus in the rail industry to encompass passenger transportation and was awarded a large, multi-year contract with a national rail carrier in 2022. The Company has been developing and constructing the enhanced systems for this contract and anticipates that it will install a high performance, two-RIP solution for the carrier in 2024, with a long-term services agreement commencing upon delivery of the system. Although the Companys prospects for future revenue growth are anticipated to be favorable, investing in our securities involves risk and careful consideration should be made before deciding to purchase our securities. There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control and unexpected macro events can have a severe impact on the business. Please see the risk factors identified in Item 1A Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on April 1, 2024. Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2023 The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations and is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Revenues $ 1,070,680 $ 2,644,288 Cost of revenues 976,048 2,107,116 Gross margin 94,632 537,172 Operating expenses 2,855,678 2,683,970 Loss from operations (2,761,046 ) (2,146,798 ) Other income (expense) 8,737 3,115 Net loss $ (2,752,309 ) $ (2,143,683 ) 30 Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 269,855 $ 1,827,764 -85 % Services and consulting 800,825 816,524 -2 % Total revenues $ 1,070,680 $ 2,644,288 -60 % The decrease in overall revenues for the quarter ended March 31, 2024, compared to the quarter ended March 31, 2023, is primarily attributed to delays outside of the Companys control with deployment of our two high-speed Railcar Inspection Portals, which are recorded in the technology systems portion of our business. Although these systems were largely ready for deployment in 2023, customer delays at the deployment site prevented installation even though these two high-speed Railcar Inspection Portals were deep into their production and manufacturing phases, which did not allow us to record the next phase of recognition. We believe that the customer is approaching the completion of the local site preparation and is preparing for field installation later this year. Additionally, the Company continues to see opportunities for expansion of its programs with existing customers. In spite of the timing delays that continue to impact the quarterly results, management remains confident in the long-term potential of the RIP product. The slight variation in the services portion of our revenues stems from two of our sites pausing their service payments in exchange for the chance to offer subscriptions at these locations, a change offset by the subscription revenue from these sites. The Company expects growth with new revenue from existing customers, including services revenue as the result of new maintenance contracts being established on installations coming on-line during 2024. The Company also anticipates renewals of existing and backlog contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being manufactured and expect to be completed during 2024. Cost of Revenues For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 583,437 $ 1,767,209 -67 % Services and consulting 392,611 339,907 16 % Total cost of revenues $ 976,048 $ 2,107,116 -54 % Cost of revenues largely comprises equipment and labor necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems and software projects. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the cost of revenues on technology systems decreased compared to the equivalent period in 2023. This reduction is primarily due to the company being well into the middle of production and manufacturing phase of our two high-speed Railcar Inspection Portals during the first quarter of 2023. By the first quarter of 2024, we are approaching the end of the manufacturing cycle and beginning preparations for field installation later in the year, and thereby contributing to the decrease in cost of revenues year-over-year. Additionally, the Company records certain fixed, operating and servicing costs for both technology systems and services and consulting. These fixed costs, in part, contribute to the cost of revenues declining at a slower rate than that of revenue. The Company continues to face headwinds with supply disruption and cost. While we expect that macro-economic factors will continue to drive prices, the Company continues to manage its costs and, where possible, pass through increased costs to customers in the form of higher prices, although this is not assured. Cost of revenues on services and consulting increased in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the prior year period. This rise in costs is due to one-time site improvements carried out for a customer in the first quarter of 2024, unlike in the corresponding period of 2023. Additionally, sales commissions associated with site services were reclassified from sales and marketing expenses to direct costs. Gross Margin For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Revenues $ 1,070,680 $ 2,644,288 -60 % Cost of revenues 976,048 2,107,116 -54 % Gross margin $ 94,632 $ 537,172 -82 % Gross margin decreased for the first quarter of 2024 as compared to the same period in 2023 largely in line with the decline in revenue. As noted above, the decrease in margin was a direct result of the timing of business activity related to the manufacturing of two high-speed, transit-focused Railcar Inspection Portals. Those same project revenues and subsequent margin contributions were not present during the first quarter of 2024. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor into those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. 31 Operating Expenses For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 553,486 $ 307,577 80 % Research and development 382,142 404,885 -6 % General and administration 1,920,050 1,971,508 -3 % Total operating expenses $ 2,855,678 $ 2,683,970 6 % During the three months ended March 31, 2024, the Company experienced a modest increase in overall operating expenses compared to the same period in 2023. There was a significant uptick in sales and marketing costs, primarily due to an expansion in staff after strengthening our commercial team in the latter half of 2023 in preparation for entering new markets. Conversely, research and development expenses fell by 6% owing to reduced personnel and scaled-back testing of prospective technologies. Overall, the Company continues to focus on stabilizing operating expenses while meeting the increased needs of our customers. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor into those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was $2,761,046 and $2,146,798, respectively. The increase in loss from operations was primarily the result of lower revenues recorded in the quarter as a consequence of delays in going to field for the two high-speed RIPs for a passenger transit client offset by a planned reduction in expenses which resulted in a lower percentage increase in operating loss compared to a larger percentage decrease in revenue recorded during the quarter. Other Income/Expense Other income for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $9,182 and $4,295 for the comparative period in 2023. Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was $445 and $1,180 for the comparative period in 2023. Net Loss The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was $2,752,309 and $2,143,683 respectively. The 28% increase in net loss was mostly attributed to the decrease in revenues as described above from timing delays along with growing expenses. Net loss per common share was $0.38 and $0.30 for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2024, the Company has a working capital surplus of $3,305,875 and the Company had a net loss of $2,752,309 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,032,719 ) $ (7,086 ) Net cash used in investing activities (9,810 ) (261,144 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 2,578,279 3,488,085 Net increase in cash $ 535,750 $ 3,219,855 Net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was $2,032,719 and $7,086, respectively. The increase in net cash used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024, was the result of cash outflows to procure necessary materials and overall sales and marketing, general and administration expenses offset by cash inflows from milestone payments related to current projects. In addition, there are two material changes in assets and liabilities that increased the use of cash in operating activities, notably the cash used for the reduction in accounts payable and decreased contract assets related to lower overall project activities reported during the quarter. 32 Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was $9,810 and $261,144 respectively, representing an decrease in the purchase of various fixed assets for computer equipment and product and software development and disbursements for patent costs. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 was $2,578,279 and $3,488,085, respectively. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the first three months of 2024 were primarily attributable to gross proceeds of approximately $2,745,002 from issuances of Series D and Series E Convertible Preferred Stock. Cash flows from financing activities during the first three months of 2023 were primarily attributable to the issuance of Series E Convertible Preferred shares for $4,000,000 of gross proceeds offset by repayments of certain loans related to financing of insurance costs. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on the continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. We believe our current capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion and our operations over the next twelve months, although we are dependent on timely payments from our customers for projects and work in process. However, we expect such timely payments to continue. Material cash requirements will be satisfied within the normal course of business including substantial upfront payments from our customers prior to starting projects. The Company may elect to purchase materials and supplies in advance of contract award but where there is a high probability of that award. Demand for our products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. Because a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may continue to be challenged by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Liquidity Under Accounting Codification ASC 205, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (ASC 205-40), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40. As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $2,752,309 for the three months ended March 31, 2024. During the same period, cash used in operating activities was $2,032,719. The working capital surplus and accumulated deficit as of March 31, 2024, were $3,305,875 and $66,355,861, respectively. In previous financial reports, the Company had raised substantial doubt about continuing as a going concern. This was principally due to a lack of working capital prior to underwritten offerings and private placements which were completed during 2022, 2023, and now the first and second quarters of 2024 as well. As previously noted, the Company was successful during 2023 in raising gross proceeds of over $11,500,000 from the sale of Series E and F Preferred Stock. Additionally, late in the first quarter of 2024, the Company raised gross proceeds of $2,745,000 from the issuance of a combination of Series D and E Preferred Stock (See Note 5). As part of its strategy, the Company will endeavor to utilize the Preferred Series E and the remainder of the Series D as additional funding mechanisms. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2024, the Company will again have access to its S-3 shelf registration statement allowing the Company to sell additional common shares. At the time of filing this document, the Company estimates that it has available capacity on its shelf registration which it can utilize to bolster working capital and growth of the business in the event it did not have an uptake in the preferred classes of shares previously noted. Although additional investment is not assured, the Company is comfortable that it would be able to raise sufficient capital to support expanded operations based on an anticipated increase in business activity. In the long run, the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing its business plan, generate enough revenue, and attain consistently profitable operations. Although the lingering effects of the global pandemic related to the coronavirus (Covid-19) previously affected our operations, particularly in our supply chain, we now believe that the supply chain lags have largely been abated. We have analyzed our cash flow under stress test conditions and have determined that we have sufficient liquid assets on hand or available via the capital markets to maintain operations for at least twelve months from the issuance date of this report. In addition, management has been taking and continues to take actions including, but not limited to, elimination of certain costs that do not contribute to short term revenue, and re-aligning both management and staffing with a focus on improving certain skill sets necessary to build growth and profitability and focusing product strategy on opportunities that are likely to bear results in the relatively short term. The Company believes that, as described above, it will have sufficient sources of working capital to meet its obligations over the following twelve months. In the last twelve months the Company has experienced relatively steady contracted backlog as well as seen positive signs from new commercial engagements that indicate improvements in future commercial opportunities for both one-time capital and recurring services revenues. 33 Management believes that, at this time, the conditions in our market space with ongoing contract delays, the consequent need to procure certain materials in advance of a binding contract and the additional time needed to execute on new contracts previously reported have put a strain on our cash reserves. However, proactive management of our existing contracts, recent stock offerings and private placements as well as the availability to raise capital via our shelf registration indicate there is no substantial doubt that the Company can continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months from the issuance date of this report. We continue executing the plan to grow our business and achieve profitability. The Company may selectively look at opportunities for fund raising in the future. Management has extensively evaluated our requirements for the next twelve months and has determined that the Company currently has sufficient cash and access to capital to operate for at least that period. While no assurance can be provided, management believes that these actions provide the opportunity for the Company to continue as a going concern and to grow its business and achieve profitability with access to additional capital funding. Ultimately the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing the plan described above which was put in place in late 2022 and continued in 2023, and will continue in 2024 and beyond. These consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition The Company follows Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), that affects the timing of when certain types of revenues will be recognized. The basic principles in ASC 606 include the following: a contract with a customer creates distinct contract assets and performance obligations, satisfaction of a performance obligation creates revenue, and a performance obligation is satisfied upon transfer of control to a good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized by evaluating our revenue contracts with customers based on the five-step model under ASC 606: 1. Identify the contract with the customer; 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations; and 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. 34 The Company generates revenue from four sources: 1. Technology Systems 2. AI Technologies 3. Technical Support 4. Consulting Services Stock Based Compensation The Company accounts for employee and non-employee stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-10, Share-Based Payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. The stock-based compensation carries a graded vesting feature subject to the condition of time of employment service with awarded stock-based compensation tranches vesting evenly upon the anniversary date of the award. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option-pricing formula. In accordance with ASC 718-10-35-8, the Company elected to recognize the fair value of the stock award using the graded vesting method as time of employment service is the criteria for vesting. The Companys determination of fair value using an option-pricing model is affected by the stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly subjective variables. The Company estimates volatility based upon the historical stock price of the Company and estimates the expected term for stock options using the simplified method for employees and directors and the contractual term for non-employees. The risk-free rate is determined based upon the prevailing rate of United States Treasury securities with similar maturities. 35