Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. This Form 10-Q and other reports filed by the Company from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (collectively, the Filings) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the Filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks relating to the Companys business, industry, and the Companys operations and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Duos Technologies Group was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 (the Company) under the original name of Information Systems Associates (ISA). Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and development and licensing of Information Technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, ISA entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (DTI), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015. DTI was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, employs approximately 36 people and is a technology company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property, with core competencies that include advanced intelligent technologies that are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform. The Company through its operating subsidiary DTI is primarily engaged in the design and deployment of state-of-the-art, artificial intelligence driven intelligent technologies systems. The Company converges traditional security measures with information technologies to create actionable intelligence. The Companys strategy includes continued expansion of its technology base through organic development efforts, strategic partnerships, and growth through strategic acquisitions. The Companys primary target industry sectors include transportation, with emphasis on freight and transit railroad owners/operators, petro-chemical, utilities and healthcare. Our strategy for the next 12 months is to continue to pursue key target markets described and expand the offerings within those markets as available capital allows. Specifically, based upon a successful capital raise, the Company intends to undertake to invest in sales and marketing resources to broaden its reach into the target markets, evaluate key requirements within those markets and add development resources to allow us to compete for additional projects thereby driving revenue growth. In addition, the original business of IT Asset Management (ITAM) services for large data centers is now operated as a division of the Company that continues its sales efforts through large strategic partners. 18 Prospects and Outlook Over the past several years, we have made substantial investment in product research and development and achieved significant milestones in the development of our technology solutions. We have made progress in penetrating the market with our proprietary technology solutions, more particularly in the rail industry which is currently undergoing a major shift in maintenance strategies. We believe that this shift will be a significant motivating factor for using our technologies. We also continue to expand our IT professional audit services. Our business success in the immediate future will largely depend on the increased penetration of our target markets for our proprietary intelligent security analytical technology solutions. Notwithstanding the above, no assurance can be provided that our product offerings will generate the market acceptance and orders that we contemplate. Results of Operation The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 The following table sets forth a modified version of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations that is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 2016 Revenue $ 1,035,730 $ 1,004,243 Cost of Revenue 631,388 486,417 Gross profit 404,342 517,826 Operating expenses 1,260,107 1,285,207 Loss from operations (855,765 ) (767,381 ) Other income (expense) (1,439,054 ) (70,999 ) Net loss (2,294,819 ) (838,381 ) Series A preferred stock dividends (5,920 ) Net loss applicable to common stock $ (2,300,739 ) $ (838,381 ) Revenues Revenues were $1,035,730 and $1,004,243 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The comparative 3% increase in revenue during 2017 was largely the result of the increase in project revenue and IT asset management services offset with the anticipated decrease in Maintenance and technical support as the business shifts its focus from legacy security products to advanced intelligence offerings. The 48% decrease in maintenance and technical support was all from one legacy customer who cancelled their contract at the end of 2016. The revenue from this line item will be replaced over the next reporting periods with an anticipated increase in consulting services for the rail business and recurring maintenance revenues from new projects after the initial maintenance free period. Cost of Revenues Costs of revenues were $631,388 and $486,417 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The increase in 2017 cost of the project implementation was related to increased costs for implementation of one international project with unanticipated additional travel and other expenses related to this specific project. Other increases in costs of revenues are generally in line with the increase in revenue in these categories with IT asset management services showing a slight improvement most related to economies of scale. It should be noted that the decrease in 2017 cost of the maintenance and technical support is due to the budgeted decrease in revenue. 19 Gross Profit Gross Profit was $404,342 and $517,826 for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in first quarter 2017 resulted from an isolated decline in margins in the project business for reasons described previously. This decrease is expected to be one-time in nature and that the overall year will be in line with previous gross profit performance. The decrease in gross profit was offset by lower costs overall in the maintenance and technical support and IT asset management areas but still resulted in a reduction of 22% in overall gross margin compared to the comparative quarter in 2016. Despite more aggressive pricing in the award of a large contract that makes up much of the revenue in that business line, unanticipated expenses related to initial implementation of a new product reduced the overall gross margins compared to the previous equivalent quarter. These cost overruns are expected to be a one-time event and that gross margin percentage are anticipated to be in line with previous years going forward. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were $1,260,107 and $1,285,207 respectively, a decrease of $25,100. This decrease in expenses was mainly due to a decrease in contract labor and selling and marketing expenses of $167,858. However, this decrease was offset by an increase of $142,757 because of additional professional fees and general and administration expenses related to operating as a public company, expenses related to our corporate actions including a planned up-listing to a national exchange and additional spending on resources for the research and development department by the Company. Loss Before Other Income (Expense) The loss from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were $855,765 and $767,381, respectively. The increase in loss from operations was due to an isolated decline in project margins as previously described as well as increased spending on professional fees related to planned corporate actions. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $921,314 and $72,305 respectively. The increase in interest expense was almost entirely due to non-cash charges in connection with debt discount and warrant amortization expense for bridge financing entered into in late 2016. The bridge financing costs are expected to terminate once the Company completes a planned registered equity offering and the subject financing is repaid in full. Warrant Derivative Loss Warrant derivative loss for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $582,388 and zero, respectively. The large amount in 2017 was primarily the result of the non-cash warrant derivative expense related to the additional funding drawn against the Companys promissory note with JMJ Financial. Other Income Other income for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $64,648 and $1,306, respectively. The increased amount in 2017 was the result of a gain on settlement of debt of $64,647. Net Loss The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 was $2,294,819 and $838,381, respectively. The $1,456,438 increase in net loss is primarily attributable to the non-cash charges in 2017 of $1,503,702 in debt discount expense and warrant derivative expense on debt related to bridge financing. Net loss applicable to Common Stock was $2,300,739 in 2017 versus $838,381 in 2016, an increase of $1,462,358. The loss in 2017 included a charge for Preferred Stock Dividends of $5,920. Net loss per common share was $(1.21) and $(0.45) for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016. 20 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were $675,526 and $91,245, respectively. The increase in cash flows used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2017 was due primarily to the non-cash warrant derivative expense and debt discount expense related to the promissory note with JMJ Financial with an offset of $229,373 positive variance in changes in assets and liabilities. Cash flows used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were $16,266 and $19,099, respectively representing minimum investments in certain assets during 2017 and 2016. Cash flows provided by (used in) financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2017 and 2016 were $570,601 and used $29,535, respectively. Cash flows from financing activities during 2017 were primarily attributable to proceeds from the draws on notes payable, partially offset by repayments of existing notes and short term credit facilities. Cash flows used for financing activities during 2016 were primarily for repayments of notes payable and insurance and equipment financing partially offset by proceeds from related party notes. Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. As of May 16, 2017, we had cash on hand of approximately $63,000. We have approximately $131,000 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. Overview Because of the growing nature of the business, we project that we will need additional capital to fund operations over the next 12 months. We anticipate we will need an additional $3 million for the year of 2017, which we anticipate will be funded through equity instruments related to the anticipated $13.3M registered offering previously described. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations, receipt of revenues, and additional infusions of capital. Our current capital and revenues are insufficient to fund such expansion. If we choose to launch such an expansion campaign, we will require substantially more capital. The funds raised from any future offering will also be used to market our products and services as well as contribute to existing working capital needs. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Our auditor has expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going . Management is unable to predict if and when we will be able to generate positive cash flow. Our plan regarding these matters is to raise additional debt and/or equity financing to allow us the ability to cover our current cash flow requirements and meet our obligations as they become due. There can be no assurances that financing will be available or if available, that such financing will be available under favorable terms. If we are unable to generate adequate revenues to cover expenses and cannot obtain additional financing soon, we may seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Reverse Split Effective April 26, 2017, the Company filed an Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of the Company (the Amendment) to effectuate a reverse split of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock at an exchange ratio of 1-for-35 (the Reverse Split). As a result of the Reverse Split, every thirty-five (35) shares of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock will be converted into one (1) share of issued and outstanding common stock. The number of authorized shares will remain unchanged. No fractional shares will be issued in connection with the Reverse Split. Any fractional shares of common stock resulting from the Reverse Split will be rounded up to the nearest whole share. It is not necessary for stockholders to exchange their existing stock certificates for new stock certificates in connection with the Reverse Split. Stockholders who hold their shares in brokerage accounts are not required to take any action to exchange their shares. 21 The Reverse Split is being implemented by the Company in connection with an application filed to up-list the Companys common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market (NASDAQ). The Reverse Split is intended to fulfill the stock price requirements for listing on NASDAQ since the requirements include, among other things, that the Companys common stock must maintain a minimum closing price per share of $4.00 or higher for 30 of the most recent 60 trading days. There is no assurance that the Companys application to up-list the Companys common stock on NASDAQ will be approved. On April 28, 2017, the Company received notice from Financial Industry Regulatory Authority that the Reverse Split has been approved and will take effect at the opening of trading on May 22, 2017. The Companys shares will continue to trade on The OTC Markets under the symbol DUOT with the letter D added to the end of the trading symbol for a period of 20 trading days to indicate that the Reverse Split has occurred. The Reverse Split has no impact on shareholders proportionate equity interests or voting rights in the Company or the par value of the Companys common stock, which remains unchanged. The above description of the Amendment does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amendment, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on April 28, 2017. JMJ Financing Transaction On December 20, 2016, we entered a bridge financing Securities Purchase Agreement with JMJ Financial, an accredited investor, for non-convertible debt financing in the amount up to $2,500,000. Our first draw was in the amount of $575,000 net of an OID of $30,263. The loan agreement contemplates a series of corporate actions leading to the Company raising at least $10 million in a registered offering. The loan is payable on the earlier of May 15, 2017 or the third business day after the closing of the Public Pursuant to the Note, the lender is obligated to provide the Company an additional $925,000 advance under the Note in tranches, as certain milestones, contained within the Note, are achieved. The lender may make further advances of up to $1,000,000 ($875,000 after deduction for original issue discounts for the entire $2.5M note) under the Note, in such amounts and at such times as the Parties may agree. The Company has drawn $750,000 during the first quarter after achieving scheduled milestones against the $925,000 and an additional $150,000 against the $1,000,000 available amount as of March 31, 2017 related to favorable settlement on an existing debt obligation that was in default. Although the note is not convertible per se, if the Company fails to repay the balance due under the Note when due, the lender has the right to convert all or any portion of the outstanding Note into shares of Common Stock, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Note. All amounts due under the Note become immediately due and payable upon the occurrence of an event of default as set forth in the Note. On January 25, 2017, the Company borrowed an additional $157,895 and received a net amount of $130,500 representing the second draw against the Securities Purchase agreement with JMJ Financial. Warrants in the amount of 30,075 were issued as per the agreement. On February 8, 2017, the Company borrowed an additional $105,263 and received a net amount of $87,000 representing the third draw against the Securities Purchase agreement with JMJ Financial. Warrants in the amount of 20,050 were issued as per the agreement. On February 27, 2017, the Company borrowed an additional $263,158 and received a net amount of $217,500 representing the fourth draw against the Securities Purchase agreement with JMJ Financial. Warrants in the amount of 50,138 were issued as per the agreement. On March 6, 2017, the Company borrowed an additional $157,895 and received a net amount of $130,500 representing the fifth draw against the Securities Purchase agreement with JMJ Financial. Warrants in the amount of 30,075 were issued as per the agreement. On March 14, 2017, the Company borrowed an additional $263,158 and received a net amount of $217,500 representing the sixth draw against the Securities Purchase agreement with JMJ Financial. Warrants in the amount of 50,138 were issued as per the agreement. On April 25, 2017, the Company borrowed an additional $78,947 and received a net amount of $65,250 representing the sixth draw against the Securities Purchase agreement with JMJ Financial. Warrants in the amount of 15,038 were issued as per the agreement. 22 On May 15, 2017, the Company was obligated to repay the principal due to JMJ Financial on the bridge loan totaling $1,627,632. On May 22, 2017, the Company obtained an amendment #1 to the Securities Purchase Agreement (SPA) and the $2,500,000 Promissory Note (Note). This amendment extended the original Maturity Date for the Promissory Note from May 15, 2017 to June 15, 2017 (Extended Maturity Date) and extended the Origination Shares issuance date in the Stock Purchase Agreement from May 30, 2017 to June 15, 2017. JMJ Financial conditionally waived the defaults for the Company's failure to meet the original Maturity Date of the Note and delivery date for the Origination Shares. JMJ Financial waived any damages, fees, penalties, liquidated damages, or other amounts or remedies otherwise resulting from such defaults through the Extended Maturity Date, and such conditional waiver is conditioned on the Issuer's not being in default of and not breaching any term of the Note or the SPA or any other Transaction Document at any time subsequent to the date of the Amendment. If the Company triggers an event of default or breaches any term of the Note, the SPA, or the Transaction Documents at any time subsequent to the date of the Amendment, the Investor may issue a notice of default for the Companys failure to meet the original Maturity Date of the Note and original delivery date of the Origination Shares. Because of the growing nature of the business, we project that we will need additional capital to fund operations over the next 12 months. We anticipate we will need an additional $3 million for the year of 2017, which we anticipate will be funded through equity instruments related to the anticipated $13.3M registered offering previously described. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations, receipt of revenues, and additional infusions of capital. Our current capital and revenues are insufficient to fund such expansion. If we choose to launch such an expansion campaign, we will require substantially more capital. The funds raised from any future offering will also be used to market our products and services as well as contribute to existing working capital needs. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Our auditor has expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going . Management is unable to predict if and when we will be able to generate positive cash flow. Our plan regarding these matters is to raise additional debt and/or equity financing to allow us the ability to cover our current cash flow requirements and meet our obligations as they become due. There can be no assurances that financing will be available or if available, that such financing will be available under favorable terms. If we are unable to generate adequate revenues to cover expenses and cannot obtain additional financing soon, we may seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. Critical Account Policies We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Revenue Recognition and Contract Accounting The Company generates revenue from three sources: (1) Project Revenue; (2) Maintenance and Technical Support and (3) IT Asset Management (consulting and auditing). 23 Project Revenue The Company constructs intelligent technology systems consisting of materials and labor under customer contracts. Revenues and related costs on project revenue are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting in accordance with ASC 605-35, Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred as a percentage of total estimated costs for the entirety of the contract. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. Any billings of customers in excess of recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. A contract is considered complete when all costs except insignificant items have been incurred and the installation is operating according to specifications or has been accepted by the customer. The Company has contracts in various stages of completion. Such contracts require estimates to determine the appropriate cost and revenue recognition. Costs estimates are reviewed periodically on a contract-by-contract basis throughout the life of the contract such that adjustments to the profit resulting from revisions are made cumulative to the date of the revision. Significant management judgments and estimates, including the estimated costs to complete projects, must be made and used in connection with the revenue recognized in the accounting period. Current estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available. Maintenance and Technical Support Maintenance and technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements such as professional services, which are of short-term duration, revenues are recognized when services are completed. IT Asset Management Services The Company recognizes revenue from its IT asset management business in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605-25 which addresses Revenue Recognition for the software industry. The general criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 985-605 for our Company, which sells software licenses, which do not require any significant modification or customization, is that revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. The Companys IT asset management business generates revenues from three sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting and auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales and (3) Customer Service (training and maintenance support). For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements: (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) For all periods reflected in this report, software license sales have been one time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly, the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. 24 Multiple Elements Arrangements with customers may involve multiple elements including project revenue and maintenance services in our Intelligent Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our IT Asset Management business, multiple elements may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for multiple element arrangement is as follows: Each element is accounted for separately when each element has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each element is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for elements sold in non-multiple element arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells its various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of multiple element relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple element arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenues represent billings or cash received in excess of revenue recognizable on service agreements that are not accounted for under the percentage of completion method. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. Share-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation is accounted for in accordance with the Share-Based Payment Topic of ASC 718 which requires recognition in the financial statements of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments over the shorter of the period the employee or director is required to perform the services in exchange for the award or the vesting period. The ASC also requires measurement of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award based on the grant-date fair value of the award. Pursuant to ASC Topic 505-50, for share-based payments to consultants and other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the measurement date. The expense is recognized over the service period of the award. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain. The Company initially records compensation expense based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. 25 Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of percentage completion on projects and related revenues, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of derivatives, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt, valuation of stock-based awards and valuation of loss contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.