ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. OUR COMPANY Duos (f/k/a ISA) was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 to engage in the business of developing software for the financial and asset management industries. In late 2014, ISA entered into negotiations with Duos Technologies for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015. Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos) was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for the purpose of design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. Duos, based in Jacksonville, Florida, employs approximately 39 people and is a technology company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property, with core competencies that include advanced intelligent technologies that are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform. 19 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this report. For the years ended December 31, 2015 compared to December 31, 2014 Revenues Revenues were $6,767,763 and $4,202,457 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, a 61% year over year increase. The increase in revenue during 2015 largely resulted from a more than doubling in our project revenues as investment in sales and R&D over the past 2-years begin to deliver a return on investment. In addition, all revenue categories showed increases year over year including a more than 30% growth in our IT asset management services business as compared against the results for it as a standalone business in 2014. Cost of Revenues Costs of revenues were $3,196,176 and $2,132,103 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in 2015 cost of sales is due to growing Project revenue for the costs of implementation. The addition of the IT asset management services business added $185,212 against the prior year where the business was not yet part of Duos Technologies. Gross Profit Gross Profits were $3,571,587 and $2,070,354 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in 2015 resulted from a large increase in revenues offset by a higher cost of sales. The year over year comparison shows a higher rate of growth in cost of sales than in revenues. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the years ended December, 2015 and 2014 were $5,798,895 and $3,658,046 respectively, an increase of $2,140,849. The 59% increase in operating expenses was primarily due to a one- time impairment loss of $1,578,816 as a result of the merger with Information Systems Associates, Inc. from the write-off of intangible assets. Excluding this one-time charge, expenses related to operations were higher by $562,031 as a result of an increase in employees from the merger, additional professional fees related to operating as a public company and additional spending on resource tools purchased for the research and development department by the Company. Loss before other Income (Expense) The loss from operations for the years ended, December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $2,227,308 and $1,587,692, respectively. The increase in loss from operations was primarily due to a one time impairment loss of $1,578,816 as a result of the merger with Information Systems Associates from the write-off of intangible assets. Excluding this one-time, non-cash, charge, the loss from ongoing operations was reduced by more than 41%. Other Income (Expense) Interest Expense Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $744,343 and $515,539 respectively. The increase in interest expense was primarily related to higher financing costs as a result of the merger with Information Systems Associates and amortization of debt discounts related to features contained within certain convertible notes including warrant issuance costs. The Company also converted most of its convertible notes into common stock during 2015 which gave rise to a net amount of $216,271 in onetime non-cash charges in connection with the conversions and associated warrant issuances. Other Income Other income years ending December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $861,973 and $76, respectively. The large increase in 2015 was the result of the settlement of a previously charged contingent lawsuit liability of $1,411,650 which was settled in late 2015 for a fixed amount of $550,000, resulting in a positive, non-cash improvement in net income of $861,650. 20 Net Loss The net loss for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $2,325,950 and $2,107,015 respectively. The $218,935 increase in net loss is primarily attributable to one-time, non-cash charges in connection with a one-time impairment loss of $1,578,816 as a result of the merger with Information Systems Associates, Inc. from the write-off of intangible assets. Net loss applicable to Common Stock was $2,325,950 in 2015 versus $2,643,391 in 2014, a reduction of $317,441. The loss in 2014 included a one-time charge for Preferred Stock Dividends charged to retained earnings of $536,376. Net loss per common share was $0.04 and $0.05 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows used in operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $2,116,481 and $985,650, respectively. Cash flows used in operations for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were due primarily to the net losses for the years. The losses in 2015 were positively impacted by approximately $2 million in non-cash charges including an almost $1.6 million impairment loss, offset by $1.7 million negative variance in changes in assets and liabilities. Cash flows used in provided by investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $75,236 and $30,346, respectively representing investments in certain assets required for continuing operations and research and development. Cash flows provided by financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $2,246,411 and $1,101,181, respectively. Cash flows from financing activities during 2015 were primarily attributable to proceeds from the issuances of new notes payable, partially offset by repayments of existing notes and short term credit facilities. Cash flows from financing activities during 2014 were primarily from proceeds of new notes payable partially offset by repayment of existing notes and short term credit facilities. During the year ended 2015 we were able to finance operations more through equity issuances rather than debt in an attempt to improve the overall health of our balance sheet. On March 31, 2016, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, which provides for, among other things, $1.8 million in debt financing which after loan fees, legal expenses and payment of certain existing debt obligations provides approximately $500,000 of additional working capital. The Company expects to close the debt financing on or about April 1, 2016, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions . Because of the growing nature of the business, we project that we will need additional capital to fund operations over the next 12 months. We anticipate we will need an additional $1 million for the year of 2016, which may be funded through equity instruments. Overall, we have funded our cash needs from inception through December 31, 2015 with a series of debt and equity transactions, primarily with related parties. If we are unable to receive additional cash from our related parties, we may need to rely on financing from outside sources through equity transactions. Our related parties are under no legal obligation to provide us with capital infusions. Failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on operations and financial condition, however, the recent debt transaction has lessened the overall risk in this regard. We had available cash resources of $955 as of March 31, 2016. On March 31, 2016, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement, which provides for, among other things, $1.8 million in debt financing which after loan fees, legal expenses and payment of certain existing debt obligations provides approximately $500,000 of additional working capital. The Company expects to close the debt financing on or about April 1, 2016, subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Currently, our available cash resources allow us to maintain operations as presently conducted until December, 2016. This is based on our cash flow needs from operations and our existing working capital deficit. We will need to obtain additional capital through equity financing to sustain operations beyond that date. Our current level of operations would require additional capital of at least $500,000. Modifications to our business plans may also require additional capital for us to operate. For example, if we have an opportunity for an accretive acquisition, it would likely require additional capital above our current need. Conversely, if we are unable to raise additional capital in the future we may need to curtail our number of product offers or limit our marketing efforts to the most profitable geographical areas. This may result in lower revenues and market share for us. In addition, there can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us when needed or available on terms favorable to us. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations, receipt of revenues, and additional infusions of capital. Our current capital and revenues are insufficient to fund such expansion. If we choose to launch such an expansion campaign, we will require substantially more capital. The funds raised from any future offering will also be used to market our products and services as well as contribute to existing working capital needs. 21 Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. Inasmuch as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, bad debts, investments, intangible assets, and income taxes. Our estimates are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Revenue Recognition The Company generates revenue from three sources: (1) Project Implementation; (2) Maintenance and Technical Support and (3) IT Asset Management (consulting & auditing). Project Revenue The Company constructs intelligent technology systems consisting of materials and labor under customer contracts. Revenues and related costs on project revenue are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting in accordance with ASC 605-35, Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred as a percentage of total estimated costs for the entirety of the contract. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. Any billings of customers in excess of recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. A contract is considered complete when all costs except insignificant items have been incurred and the installation is operating according to specifications or has been accepted by the customer. The Company has contracts in various stages of completion. Such contracts require estimates to determine the appropriate cost and revenue recognition. Costs estimates are reviewed periodically on a contract-by-contract basis throughout the life of the contract such that adjustments to the profit resulting from revisions are made cumulative to the date of the revision. Significant management judgments and estimates, including the estimated costs to complete projects, must be made and used in connection with the revenue recognized in the accounting period. Current estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available. Maintenance and Technical Support Maintenance and technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. 22 For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements such as professional services, which are of short-term duration, revenues are recognized when services are completed. IT Asset Management Services The Company recognizes revenue from its IT asset management business in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605-25 which addresses Revenue Recognition for the software industry. The general criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 985-605 for our Company, which sells software licenses, which do not require any significant modification or customization, is that revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. The Companys IT asset management business generates revenues from three sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting & auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales and (3) Customer Service (training and maintenance support). For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements: (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) Throughout the date of this report, software license sales have been one time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. Multiple Elements Arrangements with customers may involve multiple elements including project revenue and maintenance services in our Intelligent Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our IT Asset Management business, multiple elements may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for multiple element arrangement is as follows: Each element is accounted for separately when each element has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each element is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for elements sold in non-multiple element arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells it various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of multiple element relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple element arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. 23 Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, estimates of percentage completion on projects and related revenues, valuation of intangible assets and goodwill, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt, valuation of stock-based awards and valuation of loss contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.