ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained elsewhere in this form 10-Q. Certain statements made in this discussion are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, intends, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and include, without limitation, statements below regarding: the Companys ability to continue as a going concern; the Companys intended business plans; the ability to raise working capital as needed; expectations as to market acceptance of the Companys products; and belief as to the sufficiency of cash reserves. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. these factors include, but are not limited to, the Companys ability to continue as a going concern; the Companys inability to raise funds to continue operations; the effect of a going concern statement by the Companys auditors; the success of our merger with Duos Technologies, Inc. (duostech); the success of the merged operations; the competitive environment generally and in the Companys specific market areas; changes in technology; the availability of and the terms of financing; changes in costs and availability of goods and services; economic conditions in general and in the Companys specific market areas; demographic changes; changes in federal, state and /or local government law and regulations affecting the technology; changes in operating strategy or development plans; and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Although the Company believes that expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot guarantee future results, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither the Company nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of these forward-looking statements. The Company is under no duty to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results. Overview Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (Duos or the Company), formerly known as Information Systems Associates, Inc., was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994. The Company is headquartered in Jacksonville, Florida. Its wholly owned subsidiary, duostech is primarily engaged in the design and deployment of state-of-the-art, artificial intelligence driven intelligent technologies systems, with a focus on homeland security applications. duostech converges traditional security measures with information technologies to create actionable intelligence. duostechs IP is built upon two of its core technology platforms (praes i dium and cen t raco), both distributed as licensed software suites, and natively embedded within engineered turnkey systems. praes i dum is a modular suite of analytics applications which process and simultaneously analyze data streams from a virtually unlimited number of conventional sensors and/or data points. Native algorithms compare analyzed data against user-defined criteria and rules in real time and automatically report any exceptions, deviations and/or anomalies. This application suite also includes a broad range of conventional operational system components and sub-systems, including an embedded feature-rich video management engine and a proprietary Alarm Management Service (AMS). This unique service provides continuous monitoring of all connected devices, processes, equipment and sub-systems, and automatically communicates to the front end-user interface, if and when an issue, event or performance anomalies are detected. cen t raco is a comprehensive user interface that includes the functionalities of a Physical Security Information Management (PSIM) system as well as those of an Enterprise Information System (EIS). This multi-layered interface can be securely installed as a stand-alone application suite inside a local area network or pushed outside a wide area network using the same browser-based interface. It leverages industry standards for data security, access, and encryption as appropriate. The platform also operates as a cloud-hosted solution. The Companys strategy includes expansion of its technology base through organic development efforts, strategic partnerships, and growth through strategic acquisitions. duostechs primary target industry sectors include transportation, with emphasis on freight and transit railroad owners/operators, petro-chemical, utilities and healthcare. ISA's original business for IT Asset Management (ITAM) services for large data centers is now operated as a division of the Company that continues its sales efforts through large strategic partners. The Company developed a methodology for the efficient data collection of assets contained within large data centers and was awarded a patent in 2010 for specific methods to collect and audit data. 16 Prospects and Outlook Over the past several years, we have made substantial investment in product research and development and achieved significant milestones in the development of our technology solutions. We have made progress in penetrating the market with our proprietary technology solutions, more particularly in the rail industry which is currently undergoing a major shift in maintenance strategies. We believe that this shift will be a significant motivating factor for using our technologies. We also continue to expand our IT professional audit services. Our business success in the immediate future will largely depend on the increased penetration of our target markets for our proprietary intelligent security analytical technology solutions. . Notwithstanding the above, no assurance can be provided that our product offerings will generate the market acceptance and orders that we contemplate. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three months ended March 31, 2016 compared to Three months ended March 31, 2015 The following table sets forth a modified version of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations that is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change REVENUES: Project revenue $ 229,123 $ 504,969 $ (275,846 ) Maintenance and technical support 607,879 597,126 10,753 IT asset management services 167,241 167,241 Total Revenues 1,004,243 1,102,095 (97,852 ) COST OF REVENUES: Project revenue 141,078 334,495 (193,417 ) Maintenance and technical support 267,581 214,395 53,186 IT asset management services 77,758 77,758 Total Cost of Revenues 486,417 548,890 (62,473 ) GROSS PROFIT 517,826 553,205 (35,379 ) OPERATING EXPENSES: Selling and marketing expenses 86,040 59,329 26,711 Salaries, wages and contract labor 886,167 589,627 296,540 Research and development 55,487 49,386 5,651 Professional fees 77,229 90,305 (13,076 ) General and administrative expenses 180,285 128,639 51,646 Total Operating Expenses 1,285,208 917,736 367,472 INCOME (LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS (767,382 ) (364,531 ) (402,851 ) 17 For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Change OTHER INCOME (EXPENSES): Interest expense (72,305 ) (391,094 ) 318,789 Gain on settlement of accounts payable 3,200 (3,200 ) Other income, net 1,306 1 1,305 Total Other Income (Expense) (70,999 ) (387,893 ) 316,894 Loss before income taxes (838,381 ) (752,424 ) (85,957 ) Income tax NET LOSS (838,381 ) (752,424 ) (85,957 ) Net loss applicable to common stock $ (838,381 ) $ (752,424 ) $ (85,957 ) Revenues Revenues were $1,004,243 and $1,102,095 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The net decrease in revenue for 2016 is due to a combination of (a) decreased project activity during the quarter amounting to $275,846, (b) increase in revenue in maintenance and technical service of $10,753 and (c) the addition of revenue from IT asset management services of $167,241. The decrease in project revenue was mainly caused by the delay of two projects which were anticipated to start during the quarter ended March 31, 2016. Cost of Revenues Costs of revenues were $486,417 and $548,890 for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease in 2016 cost of revenues partially reflects the proportional decrease in project revenue as well as a decrease in maintenance and technical support expenses related to new projects. The addition from the IT asset management services revenue added cost of revenues for that business. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were $1,285,208 and $917,736, respectively. The increase in administration and general expense of $51,646 is mainly due to expenses related to our operating as a public entity and in connection with the merger completed in April 2015. The increase in salaries, wages and contract labor of $296,540 is attributable to expansion of the employee base in anticipation of new projects starting later in the fiscal year. There was also an increase in consulting fees related to new consulting agreements to assist the company with its business plan for growth. The decrease in professional fees of $13,076 is mainly due to stabilizing of legal and accounting services costs related to operating as a public entity and the merger activities which were completed last year. The increase in selling and marketing expense of $26,711 is primarily due to additional cost from the IT asset management expenses and additional expenses for travel for revenue growth. The Company also added new sales staff in anticipation of additional revenue growth. The increase in research and development of $5,651 is largely due to additional resource tools purchased. Income/Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $767,382 and $364,531, respectively. The additional loss of $402,851 from operations is attributable to the increase in salaries, consulting and overall increase in expenses operating as a public company. Much of the additional increase in expenses is related to the anticipated growth from signed and pending contracts and the requirement to add key employees in the areas of sales, support and research and development. 18 Other Income (Expense) Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $72,305 and $391,094, respectively. The decrease in interest expense is primarily due to $352,093 of debt premium recorded as interest expense in 2015 offset by increased interest in 2016 due to increased debt. Net Loss Net loss for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 was $838,381 and $752,424, respectively. The net loss increase of $85,957 was mainly due to increased expenses in salaries and consulting with an offset in the decrease of interest expense. Net loss per common share was $0.01 and $0.01 for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the three-month period ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 were 65,655,807 shares and 57,738,209 shares, respectively. Capital Resources A summary of our cash flows is as follows: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 Net cash used in operating activities $ (91,245 ) $ (294,815 ) Net cash used in investing activities $ (19,099 ) $ (3,497 ) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities $ (29,535 ) $ 213,127 2016 Period Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $91,245 for the three months ended March 31, 2016, compared to net cash used in operating activities of $294,815 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. For the 2016 period, cash used in operating activities of $91,245 resulted from a net loss of $838,381 offset primarily by stock and warrants being issued for payment of services of $95,036, amortization of prepaid consulting services of $198,068, depreciation and amortization of $12,099, loss related to warrants exchanged for stock of $630 and a net positive change in assets and liabilities of $441,304. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $19,099 was primarily for an investment in office equipment. Financing Activities Our net cash used in by financing activities of $29,535 consisted primarily of proceeds of $50,000 from related party notes and bank overdraft of $3,604, offset by repayments of insurance and equipment financing and repayments of related party notes. 2015 Period Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities was $294,815 for the three months ended March 31, 2015. Cash used in operating activities for 2015 resulted primarily from the net loss on conversion of notes payable included in interest expense of $352,093, offset by net changes in operating assets and liabilities of $89,720. Investing Activities The Companys net cash used in investing activities of $3,497 was the result of office equipment purchases. 19 Financing Activities The Companys net cash provided by financing activities of $213,127 consisted primarily of proceeds from related party notes payable and other short term notes and bank overdraft of $13,534. Liquidity Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) securities. As of May 13, 2016, we had cash on hand of approximately $65,000. We have approximately $131,000 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. More recently, on March 31, 2016, we entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement with an accredited investor for non-convertible debt financing in the gross amount of $1.8 million less a 5% original issue discount. The Company closed the debt financing on April 1, 2016. Because of the growing nature of the business, we project that we will need additional capital to fund operations over the next 12 months. We anticipate we will need an additional $1 million for the year of 2016, which may be funded through equity instruments. Overall, we have funded our cash needs from inception with a series of debt and equity transactions, primarily with related parties. If we are unable to receive additional cash from our related parties, we may need to rely on financing from outside sources through equity transactions. Our related parties are under no legal obligation to provide us with capital infusions. Failure to obtain such financing could have a material adverse effect on operations and financial condition, however, the recent debt transaction has lessened the overall risk in this regard. Our current level of operations would require additional capital of at least $500,000. Modifications to our business plans may also require additional capital for us to operate. For example, if we have an opportunity for an accretive acquisition, it would likely require additional capital above our current need. Conversely, if we are unable to raise additional capital in the future we may need to curtail our number of product offers or limit our marketing efforts to the most profitable geographical areas. This may result in lower revenues and market share for us. In addition, there can be no assurance that additional capital will be available to us when needed or available on terms favorable to us. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations, receipt of revenues, and additional infusions of capital. Our current capital and revenues are insufficient to fund such expansion. If we choose to launch such an expansion campaign, we will require substantially more capital. The funds raised from any future offering will also be used to market our products and services as well as contribute to existing working capital needs. The Companys business model provides for revenues from projects and ongoing maintenance. As of the filing of this Form 10-Q, we had a backlog of orders aggregating $3,990,000, of which we anticipate recording revenues of $3,570,000 during 2016. The closing of our senior secured debt financing has fulfilled part of this need. However, ongoing interest payments to service this new debt puts an additional burden on our ongoing cash flow. In addition, certain covenants regarding restricted issuances in the debt documents may make further capital raises more complex since without the prior written consent of the holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the debt then outstanding we may not incur additional debt nor issue preferred stock whose terms and rights provide the requirement or option to declare and pay a cash dividend while the debt is outstanding. However, there are factors that can impact our ability to continue to fund our operating needs through December 31, 2016, including Our ability to generate additional new revenues of at least $3.5 million in addition to the backlog during the second half of 2016; Our ability to further expand sales volume with limited resources; Our ability to maintain product pricing as expected, particularly in light of increased competition and its unknown effects on market dynamics; 20 Our ability and that of our contract manufacturers to maintain manufacturing costs and delivery times as expected; and Our continued need to maintain or reduce our cost structure while simultaneously expanding our business, enhancing our technical capabilities and pursing new business opportunities. Management continues in its efforts to raise working capital. However, the Company cannot provide any assurance that these plans will be successful. If we are unable to raise additional capital through a capital raise or revenues, it may be necessary for us to take measures to reduce our cash burn . No assurance can be given that we will be able to raise the needed capital on commercially acceptable terms or at all. The unaudited consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or the amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. Such going concern qualification may make it more difficult for us to raise funds. In addition, any additional equity financing is likely to be dilutive to holders of our Common Stock and debt financing, if available, may require us to be bound by significant repayment obligations and covenants that restrict our operations. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition Project Revenue The Company constructs intelligent technology systems consisting of materials and labor under customer contracts. Revenues and related costs on project revenue are recognized using the percentage of completion method of accounting in accordance with ASC 605-35, Construction-Type and Production-Type Contracts. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred as a percentage of total estimated costs for the entirety of the contract. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in costs and estimated earnings in excess of billings on uncompleted contracts. Any billings of customers in excess of recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in billings in excess of costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. A contract is considered complete when all costs except insignificant items have been incurred and the installation is operating according to specifications or has been accepted by the customer. The Company has contracts in various stages of completion. Such contracts require estimates to determine the appropriate cost and revenue recognition. Costs estimates are reviewed periodically on a contract-by-contract basis throughout the life of the contract such that adjustments to the profit resulting from revisions are made cumulative to the date of the revision. Significant management judgments and estimates, including the estimated costs to complete projects, must be made and used in connection with the revenue recognized in the accounting period. Current estimates may be revised as additional information becomes available. Maintenance and Technical Support Maintenance and technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized ratably over the term of the contract. For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements such as professional services, which are of short-term duration, revenues are recognized when services are completed. 21 IT Asset Management Services The Company recognizes revenue from its IT asset management business in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605-25 which addresses Revenue Recognition for the software industry. The general criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 985-605 for our Company, which sells software licenses, which do not require any significant modification or customization, is that revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. The Companys IT asset management business generates revenues from three sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting & auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales and (3) Customer Service (training and maintenance support). For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements: (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) Throughout the date of this report, software license sales have been one time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly, the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. Multiple Elements Arrangements with customers may involve multiple elements including project revenue and maintenance services in our Intelligent Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our IT Asset Management business, multiple elements may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for multiple element arrangement is as follows: Each element is accounted for separately when each element has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each element is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for elements sold in non-multiple element arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells it various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of multiple element relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple element arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenues represent billings or cash received in excess of revenue recognizable on service agreements that are not accounted for under the percentage of completion method. 22 Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. To date, the Company has not had the need to reserve for allowances on collections. Share-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation is accounted for in accordance with the Share-Based Payment Topic of ASC 718 which requires recognition in the financial statements of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments over the shorter of the period the employee or director is required to perform the services in exchange for the award or the vesting period. The ASC also requires measurement of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award based on the grant-date fair value of the award. Pursuant to ASC Topic 505-50, for share-based payments to consultants and other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the measurement date. The expense is recognized over the service period of the award. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain. The Company initially records compensation expense based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, estimates of percentage completion on projects and related revenues, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt, valuation of stock-based awards and valuation of loss contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.