Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Form 10-K and other reports filed by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview We intend for this discussion to provide information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. Plan of Operation The Companys growth strategy includes expansion of its technology base through organic development efforts, strategic partnerships, and targeted acquisitions where appropriate. The Company provides a broad range of technology solutions with a primary emphasis on the Vision Technology market sector, specifically within the Machine Vision subsector. Machine Vision companies provide imaging-based automatic inspection and analysis for process control, with the potential for expansion into additional industries. Duos is currently developing industry solutions targeting rail, trucking, aviation, and other vehicle-based processes while also expanding into the fast-growing Edge Data Center and power generation markets. The Companys flagship product, the Railcar Inspection Portal (RIP), enables freight and transit railroad customers and select government agencies to conduct fully automated railcar inspections in real-time as trains move at full speed. The RIP integrates sophisticated optical, laser, and speed sensors with edge computing and artificial intelligence (AI) algorithms to detect safety and security defects instantly, allowing operators to take immediate action. In 2024, the Company made a strategic decision to leverage its core expertise in high-speed data processing and AI-driven analysis to expand into additional markets. This resulted in the formation of two new subsidiaries: 1. Duos Edge AI (Duos Edge) Specializing in high-speed data processing through Edge Data Centers, Duos Edge is focused on serving underserved Tier 3 and Tier 4 markets, providing critical infrastructure for education, healthcare, and enterprise computing needs. The Edge Data Centers support applications requiring real-time response, reducing reliance on centralized cloud-based processing and improving efficiency. 2. Duos Energy Corporation (Duos Energy) Established to meet the growing demand for power generation outside of traditional utility grids, Duos Energy provides consulting, asset management, and operational expertise for rapid deployment power generation. Duos Energy has engaged in agreements with Fortress Investment Group (FIG) to support power generation solutions, particularly for data centers and AI-driven applications, managing approximately 850 MW of generating capacity. The strategic expansion into Edge Computing and power generation aligns with the Company's long-term vision to drive growth through diversified revenue streams while leveraging its existing technology infrastructure and domain expertise. 25 Prospects and Outlook The Company is focused on improving operational and technical execution, which, in turn, will enable commercial expansion and new technology offerings. The primary objectives for 2025 and beyond include: Expansion into power generation and energy solutions: The newly formed Duos Energy subsidiary is positioned to capitalize on the increasing demand for behind-the-meter (BTM) energy solutions. The Companys AMA with New APR, valued at approximately $42 million over two years, along with its 5% non-voting equity interest in the ultimate parent of New APR, establishes a strong foundation for further market penetration in the fast power sector. This business expansion in conjunction with the revenue generated under the AMA is expected to provide a significant portion of the Companys revenues in 2025. Expansion of the RIP business model: The Company is shifting to a modular and subscription-based approach, allowing customers to select specific Acquisition Modules suited to their operational needs. This transition provides flexible pricing structures, improves scalability, and enhances recurring revenue streams through RIP-as-a-Service. Deployment of AI-powered self-diagnostics: Enhancing RIP systems with AI-driven self-diagnostics enables real-time monitoring, improved system uptime, and predictive maintenance capabilities, reducing operational disruptions for customers. Integration of Edge Data Centers: The Company is actively deploying Edge Data Centers to enable faster, localized data processing, particularly in rural and underserved markets. The first six sites are expected to become operational in the first half of 2025, with a further nine sites anticipated for the second half of 2025. These initial Edge Data Centers are providing scalable solutions for enterprise and government clients. Enhancements in artificial intelligence and automation: The Company continues to refine its proprietary AI solutions, including computer vision, deep learning, and predictive analytics, to improve inspection accuracy and operational efficiency across all product offerings. Expansion into new vehicle inspection markets: While the Company remains committed to its core rail technology solutions, it continues to explore applications for scanning and inspecting other vehicle types, including trucks, buses, and aircraft. These markets offer potential growth opportunities through partnerships with logistics providers, government agencies, and commercial transport operators. In 2024, Duos entered a long-term agreement with a major Class 1 railroad, securing data access from its RIPs and enabling new subscription-based services for over 3,000 railcar owners and lessors. This initiative is expected to open up significant new revenue streams while strengthening the Company's market leadership. The Company recognizes that technology adoption within the rail industry can be a gradual process, requiring substantial capital investment from customers. To accelerate adoption, Duos is focused on demonstrating clear ROI for its solutions, securing long-term service agreements, and pursuing partnerships that enhance its value proposition. Additionally, investments in engineering and software development will ensure compliance with evolving Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) and Association of American Railroad (AAR) standards, further positioning the Company for continued success in the rail sector. With the diversification into Edge Computing and power generation, coupled with continued growth in its core machine vision and AI-based inspection technologies, the Company is well-positioned to drive increased revenue, improve profitability, and generate long-term shareholder value. Although the Companys prospects for future revenue growth are anticipated to be favorable, investing in our securities involves risk and careful consideration should be made before deciding to purchase our securities. There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control and unexpected macro events can have a severe impact on the business. Please see the risk factors identified in Item 1A Risk Factors elsewhere in this Annual Report. 26 Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this report. For the year endedDecember 31, 2024compared to December 31, 2023 The following table sets forth a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Operations that is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Revenues $ 7,280,885 $ 7,471,198 Cost of revenues 6,811,670 6,162,317 Gross margin 469,215 1,308,881 Operating expenses 11,452,741 12,755,447 Loss from operations (10,983,526 ) (11,446,566 ) Other income 219,069 204,848 Net loss $ (10,764,457 ) $ (11,241,718 ) Revenues For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 2,252,357 $ 3,618,022 -38 % Services and consulting 5,028,528 3,853,176 31 % Total revenues $ 7,280,885 $ 7,471,198 -3 % For the full year 2024, there was a 3% decrease in overall revenues compared to 2023. The decrease in overall revenues is primarily attributed to delays outside of the Companys control with the deployment of our two high-speed Railcar Inspection Portals, which are recorded in the technology systems portion of our business. Although these systems were largely ready for deployment in 2023, customer delays at the deployment site prevented installation even though these two high-speed Railcar Inspection Portals were deep into their production and manufacturing phases, which did not allow us to record the next phase of revenue recognition. The Company was able to contract an equitable adjustment related to our two high-speed Railcar Inspection Portals project in 2024. This adjustment added $1.4 million to the contracts total value, with a substantial portion recognized in 2024. We believe that the customer is approaching the completion of the local site preparation and is preparing for field installation in 2025. Additionally, the Company continues to see opportunities for expansion of its programs with existing customers. In spite of the timing delays that continue to impact results, management remains confident in the long-term potential of the RIP product. For the full year 2024, there was a 31% increase in services and consulting revenues compared to 2023. The increase in the services portion of our revenues stems from the addition of new AI and subscription customers that were not present in for the full year in 2023, as well as increases in service contract revenue due to higher service contract prices. We also generated $921,562 in services and consulting revenue from power consulting work, which was not present in 2023. The Company expects growth with new revenue from existing customers, including services revenue as the result of new maintenance contracts being established on installations coming on-line during 2025. The Company anticipates revenue growth from new and existing customers related to the subscription offering starting in 2025, giving access to RIP data and images to a much broader target market including Class 1 railroads, railcar owners and lessors, and short-line railroads. The Company also anticipates renewals of existing and backlog contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being manufactured and expect to be completed during early 2025. The Company also expects new revenue growth in 2025 related to its 5% non-voting ownership equity interest in Sawgrass Parent, including revenue attributable to the AMA. While customer-driven delays in the installation of our high-speed transit-focused Railcar Inspection Portals have impacted revenue growth timing year-over-year, the Company's capital structure remains resilient, allowing us to pursue large projects despite unexpected delays. It should be noted that the Company recently increased its working capital to account for an increase in pre-contract procurement activities to avoid a slowdown in revenues caused by delays in receiving certain components as had been the case in previous years. 27 Overall, in 2024, the Company made significant strides in advancing the procurement and manufacturing of its transit-focused RIPs. The Company also successfully grew its service contracts and secured new agreements in AI, enhancing its AI portfolio. Additionally, the Company launched the Duos Edge AI and Duos Energy business lines, which are expected to start contributing to the Company's success in 2025. Recurring revenue from services and consulting continues to grow and is expected to contribute significantly to future revenue streams, bolstered by new long-term contracts with existing customers expected to commence in the coming months. Cost of Revenues For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 2,818,078 $ 4,352,247 -35 % Services and consulting 3,993,592 1,810,070 121 % Total cost of revenues $ 6,811,670 $ 6,162,317 11 % Cost of revenues primarily includes inventory, shipping, certain fixed labor and overhead and allocated depreciation and amortization as applicable necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems. Cost of revenues on technology systems decreased during the period compared to the equivalent period in 2023 in-line with the decline in project revenues. The decline in costs generally follows the same year-over-year trend as project revenues due to timing differences in major project work. This is primarily related to the procurement and manufacturing of transit-focused RIPs. As we near the end of the manufacturing cycle and begin preparations for field installation in 2025, the cost of revenues for technology systems decreases accordingly. In contrast, during the same period in 2023, the Company was still progressing through the advanced stages of procurement and manufacturing for these RIPs. Completion is expected in late 2025 or early 2026, depending on customer-related constraints for track access. These internal costs of revenue noted above are being recognized against project and support revenues with a similar reduction in costs previously recognized for research and development, engineering and internal support. The project costs reflect subsequent allocations of fixed costs related to the staff and departmental costs associated with procurement, manufacturing and installation of RIP installations. As such, in 2024, this fixed component contributed to a negative margin on the technology systems revenues. In concert with this, there is a continued focus on construction costs and savings through efficiency, and there were some targeted staff reductions during 2024. However, the Company has elected to retain its key employees in anticipation of expected sales growth in technology systems and services in 2025 and beyond. The cost of revenues increased on services and consulting year-over-year. The increase in costs is primarily due to $1,569,311 in amortization expense of the intangible asset related to a nonmonetary transaction, which was not present in 2023. The Company also generated $921,562 in services and consulting revenue from power consulting work, which was provided at cost, further increasing the cost of revenues for services and consulting, which was also not present in 2023. The Company continues to put into service additional artificial intelligence algorithms and maintenance and support services which are high margin and represent only marginal increases in the requisite costs to deliver these services. 28 Gross Margin For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Revenues $ 7,280,885 $ 7,471,198 -3 % Cost of revenues 6,811,670 6,162,317 11 % Gross margin $ 469,215 $ 1,308,881 -64 % Gross margin showed a decrease for the year ended December 31, 2024, as compared to the same period in 2023. As noted above, the decrease in margin was a direct result of the timing of business activity related to the manufacturing of two high-speed, transit-focused Railcar Inspection Portals compared to the activity in 2023. The business activity in 2024 consisted primarily of continued progression into the advanced stages of procurement and manufacturing for the transit-focused RIPs. The Company also generated $921,562 in services and consulting revenue from power consulting work, which was provided at cost, further diluting the overall gross margin. These same project revenues and subsequent margin impacts were absent during 2023; however, the power consulting and asset management activities are expected to generate positive gross margins going forward. The recognition of the revenue and subsequent profit from these projects, as well as underlying services and maintenance revenues from existing and recently completed projects, coupled with the previously mentioned fixed departmental costs resulted in a gross margin of approximately 6%. By comparison for the full-year 2023, the Company had increased business activity from a procurement and manufacturing standpoint related to the transit-focused RIPs. The recognition of the revenue and subsequent profit from these major projects, as well as underlying services and maintenance revenues from existing projects, resulted in an 18% gross margin in 2023. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor in those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 2,138,431 $ 1,493,309 43 % Research and development 1,531,390 1,812,951 -16 % General and administration 7,782,920 9,449,187 -18 % Total operating expense $ 11,452,741 $ 12,755,447 -10 % Overall operating expenses decreased by 10% in 2024 as compared to the full year 2023. There was a 43% increase in sales and marketing related to increased investment into the capability of the commercial team, including the addition of professionals with extensive experience and leadership in the rail, Edge data center and power industries. Research and development costs saw a 16% decline during the year, driven by the decreased personnel costs related to the departments allocated to R&D and scaled-back testing of prospective technologies. Additionally, an 18% decrease in general and administration costs was influenced by several factors, including a reduction in personnel and personnel related expenses as well as a decrease in non-cash amortization charges year over year associated with roughly 781,323 share options that were forfeited during 2024. Other factors driving the decrease in general and administration costs include a decrease in consulting and legal expenses as compared to 2023. Loss From Operations The losses from operations for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 were $10,983,526 and $11,446,566, respectively. The decrease in loss from operations was primarily the result of planned decreases in operating expenses, which offset the impact of lower revenues recorded in the period as a consequence of delays in going to field for the two high-speed RIPs for a passenger transit client, and the short term lower gross margins from the impact of the initial power industry consulting. Interest Expense Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $286,114 and $7,159, respectively. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to the amortization of the debt discount on the $2.2 million note and the associated monthly interest expense in 2024; this note, related to the acquisition and build out of 3 Edge data centers, had not been entered into in 2023. 29 Other Income Other income for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $505,183 and $212,007, respectively. The significant increase in other income is primarily due to a gain from the fair value adjustment of the warrant liability and gain on extinguishment of warrant liabilities resulting from the exercise of the warrants. There was no such transaction in 2023. Net Loss The net loss for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $10,764,457 and $11,241,718, respectively. The decrease in net loss is primarily attributable to the decrease in operating costs as described above. Net loss per common share was $1.39 and $1.56 for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, the Company has a cash balance of $6,266,296 and an accounts receivable balance of $403,441. Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: For the Years Ended December 31, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,488,687 ) $ (8,746,564 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,841,298 ) (1,093,909 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 9,154,439 11,161,223 Net increase in cash $ 3,824,454 $ 1,320,750 Net cash used in operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $3,488,687 and $8,746,564, respectively. The decrease in net cash used in operations for the year ended December 31, 2024 was the result of a decrease in expenditures related to current projects as previously discussed. In addition, there are several changes in assets and liabilities that decreased the use of cash in operations including decreases in accounts receivable, increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses, and a rise in contract liabilities due to advance payments received from customers. Notably, an energy customer prepaid $5 million for services to be provided throughout the year, contributing to the increase in contract liabilities and improving short-term cash flow. Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $1,841,298 and $1,093,909, respectively. The Company ramped up its investment activities in 2024 compared to 2023 through an increase in the purchase of various fixed assets including our three edge data centers that are currently being manufactured to be deployed in the first half of 2025; the remainder includes the purchase of computer equipment and product and software development and disbursements for patent costs. Net cash provided by financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023 was $9,154,439 and $11,161,223, respectively. Cash flows provided by financing activities during 2024 were primarily attributable to gross proceeds of approximately $2,995,002 from issuances of Series D and Series E Convertible Preferred Stock, along with a combined total of $4,444,210 in proceeds from the issuance of common stock via warrant exercises of $899,521 and our At-The-Market (ATM) offering program for proceeds of $3,544,689. The Company also obtained $2,200,000 in cash proceeds pursuant to notes executed in 2024 with a related parties. Cash flows from financing activities during 2023 were primarily attributable to the issuance of Series E and Series F Convertible Preferred Stock for $11,500,000 of gross proceeds offset by repayments of certain loans related to financing of insurance costs. During 2024, we funded our operations through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) securities, and through revenues generated and cash received from ongoing project execution, services and associated maintenance revenues. As of March 28, 2025, we have cash on hand of approximately $4,060,300 after the completion of our At-The-Market (ATM) in January and February of 2025, which provided net proceeds of $3,836,032. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on the continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Our current capital and access to further capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion and we are now less dependent on timely payments by our customers for projects and work in process. However we anticipate such timely payments to continue. Material cash requirements will be satisfied within the normal course of business, including substantial upfront payments from our customers prior to starting projects. As previously mentioned, an energy customer prepaid $5 million for services to be provided throughout the year, related to the AMA, contributing to the increase in contract liabilities and improving short-term cash flow. In some cases, the Company may elect to purchase materials and supplies in advance of contract award but where there is a high probability of that award. Most, if not all, high value items that are pre-purchased, can be re-purposed if necessary. The maximum amount of material cash requirements not currently supported by up-front customer deposits is expected to be less than $1 million. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations could be adversely affected by our competitors as well as prolonged recession periods although these are not considered to be a factor at present. 30 Liquidity Under Accounting Codification ASC 205, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (ASC 205-40), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40. As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $10,764,457 for the year ended December 31, 2024. During the same period, cash used in operating activities was $3,488,687. The working capital deficit and accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2024, were $8,002,361 and $74,368,009, respectively. In previous financial reports, the Company had raised substantial doubt about continuing as a going concern. This was principally due to a lack of working capital prior to an underwritten offerings and private placements which were completed during the first, third and fourth quarters of 2022, the first, third and fourth quarters of 2023, as well as 2024 and 2025. As previously noted, the Company was successful during 2023 in raising gross proceeds of over $11,500,000 from the sale of Series E and F Preferred Stock. Additionally, late in the first and second quarters of 2024, the Company raised gross proceeds of $2,995,002 from the issuance of a combination of Series D and E Preferred Stock (See Note 14). The Company successfully raised approximately $3,544,689 in gross proceeds through its At-The-Market (ATM) offering program in 2024 and secured an additional $3,954,940 in gross proceeds during the first two months of 2025. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2025, the Company will again have access to its S-3 shelf registration statement allowing the Company to sell additional securities. At the time of this document, the Company estimates that it has available capacity on its shelf registration which it can utilize to bolster working capital and growth of the business in the event that revenues from its recently executed Asset Management Agreement (AMA) with New APR Energy does not provide sufficient cash flow to support operations. Although additional investment is not assured, the Company is comfortable that it would be able to raise sufficient capital to support expanded operations based on an anticipated increase in business activity. In the long run, the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing its business plan, generate enough revenue, and attain consistently profitable operations. We have analyzed our cash flow under stress test conditions and have determined that we have sufficient liquid assets on hand or available via the capital markets to maintain operations for at least twelve months from the issuance date of this report. In addition, management has taken and continues to take actions including, but not limited to, elimination of certain costs that do not contribute to short term revenue, and re-aligning both management and staffing with a focus on improving certain skill sets necessary to build growth and profitability and focusing product strategy on opportunities that are likely to bear results in the relatively short term. The Company believes that, with the combination of commercial sales success, coupled with an S-3 shelf registration availability starting in the second quarter of 2025, it will have sufficient working capital to meet its obligations over the following twelve months. In the last twelve months the Company has seen growth in its contracted backlog as well as significant, positive signs from new commercial projects that indicate improvements in future revenues. Management believes that, at this time, the conditions in our traditional market space with ongoing contract delays and the additional time needed to execute on new contracts previously reported could put a strain on our cash reserves. However, the anticipated steady cashflow from the AMA and the ability to raise capital via its shelf registration indicate there is no substantial doubt for the Company to continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months. We expect to continue executing the plan to grow our business and achieve profitability as previously discussed. The Company may selectively look at opportunities for fundraising in the future including potential debt offerings to support asset acquisition. Management has extensively evaluated our requirements for the next 12 months and has determined that the Company currently has sufficient cash and access to capital to operate for at least that period. While no assurance can be provided, management believes that these actions provide the opportunity for the Company to continue as a going concern and to grow its business and achieve profitability with access to additional capital funding. Ultimately the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing the plan described above which was put in place in late 2024 and will continue in 2025 and beyond. As a result, we expect to generate sufficient revenue and to attain profitable operations with minimal cash use in the next 12-18 months. These consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. 31 Critical Accounting Estimates Revenue Recognition For technology systems, the Company recognizes revenue over time using a cost-based input methodology in which significant judgment is required to estimate costs to complete projects. These estimated costs are then used to determine the progress towards contract completion and the corresponding amount of revenue to recognize. The Company follows the principles in ASC 606 which include the following: a contract with a customer creates distinct contract assets and performance obligations, satisfaction of a performance obligation creates revenue, and a performance obligation is satisfied upon transfer of control to a good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized by evaluating the Company revenue contracts with customers based on the five-step model under ASC 606: 1. Identify the contract with the customer; 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations; and 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. The Company generates revenue from four sources: 1. Technology Systems 2. AI Technologies 3. Technical Support 4. Consulting Services including revenues from the AMA agreement which begins in January 2025 Equity Method Investments If an investment qualifies for the equity method of accounting, the Companys investment is recorded initially at cost and subsequently adjusted for equity in net income (loss) and cash contributions and distributions. The net income or loss of an unconsolidated equity method investment is allocated to its investors in accordance with the provisions of the operating agreement of the entity. The allocation provisions in these agreements may differ from the ownership interest held by each investor. Differences, if any, between the carrying amount of our investment in the respective equity method investee and the Companys share of the underlying equity of such equity method investee are amortized over the respective lives of the underlying assets as applicable. These items are reported as a single line item in the consolidated statements of operations as income or loss from investments in unconsolidated equity method investees. Investments are reviewed for changes in circumstance or the occurrence of events that suggest an other-than-temporary event where our investment may not be recoverable. On December 31, 2024, the Company entered into an Asset Management Agreement (the AMA), with New APR, an entity formed by affiliates of Fortress Investment Group (FIG). Under the AMA, Duos Energy will manage the deployment and operations of a fleet of mobile gas turbines and balance-of-plant inventory, providing management, sales and operations functions to New APR in connection with the Assets. In exchange for services to be performed under the AMA, the Company received an initial cash payment and common units in Sawgrass Parent. While the Company has board representation in Sawgrass Parent, its common units are non-voting and the Company does not control the board of directors of Sawgrass Parent. Where the Company has an interest in a Variable Interest Entities (VIE) it will consolidate any VIE in which the Company has a controlling financial interest and deemed to be the primary beneficiary. A controlling financial interest has both of the following characteristics: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact its economic performance; and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could be significant to the VIE. If both of the characteristics are met, the Company is considered to be the primary beneficiary and therefore will consolidate that VIE into the consolidated financial statements. 32 Investments in partnerships, unincorporated joint ventures and LLCs that maintain specific ownership accounts for each investor are excluded from the scope of ASC 323-10. However, ASC 323-30 provides guidance on applying the criteria for equity method accounting to investments in partnerships, unincorporated joint ventures and LLCs. When an investor in a partnership, unincorporated joint venture or LLC has the ability to exercise significant influence over that investment, it should apply the equity method (ASC 323-10) by analogy (ASC 323-30-25-1). Sawgrass Parent is deemed to be a VIE and the Company holds a 5% interest in the Parent and an interest in the subsidiary New APR through the AMA, both of which are considered variable interests. However, the Company does not represent the primary beneficiary as it does not possess the ability to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of Sawgrass Parent. Accordingly, the Company does not consolidate Sawgrass Parent. Due to the Companys interest in Sawgrass Parent, it was determined that the Company has significant influence over Sawgrass Parent. Therefore, the Company accounts for its investment in Sawgrass Parent as an Equity Method Investment. The Company also concluded that the arrangement with Sawgrass Parent is within the scope of ASC 606, Revenue from contracts with customers, and the common units issued to the Company by Sawgrass Parent represented non-cash consideration. The initial carrying value as of December 31, 2024 of $7.2 million was measured equal to the fair value of the common units received for future services to be performed under the AMA. The Company recorded $7.2 million of deferred revenue for services to be performed under the AMA. During the year ended December 31, 2024, the Company did not recognize any revenue associated with the AMA. The Company will initially record the equity method investment in Sawgrass Parent of $7.2 million, equal to the fair value of the common units as of December 31, 2024. The Company assesses its equity method investment for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment may not be recoverable. No impairment losses were recognized during the year ended December 31, 2024. Impairment of Intangible Assets In May 2024, the Company recorded an intangible asset with a fair value of $11,161,428. This asset represents non-monetary consideration received under a 5-year customer contract, in which the Company will provide maintenance services to the customer. The intangible asset represents Digital Image data rights in the form of a license agreement received by the Company from the customer. The fair value of the asset was determined on the contract inception date based on the standalone selling price of the service and goods to be provided to the customer under the 5-year contract since the Company could not reasonably estimate the fair value of the data rights received. The non-monetary transaction was accounted for in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 606-10-32-21 through ASC 606-10-32-24. On the contract inception date, the Company also recorded an immediate amortization of the intangible asset of $199,008 related to the pre-contract costs incurred relating to a pilot program for this contract and recorded deferred revenue of $11,161,428 as contract liabilities with a current and non-current component, and then immediately recognized $199,008 of this deferred revenue relating to the completed pilot program. The remaining deferred revenue is being recognized over the 5-year term. In accordance with ASC 350-30-35-1, the amortization for the intangible asset is based on its useful life and the useful life of an intangible asset is the period over which it is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to the future cash flows of that entity. Accordingly, amortization of the intangible asset is recognized over the life of the contract of five years. In accordance with ASC 350-30-35-14, an intangible asset that is subject to amortization shall be reviewed for impairment if the carrying amount of the asset is not recoverable and exceeds its fair value. There is no indication of impairment at December 31, 2024. Stock Based Compensation The Company accounts for employee and non-employee stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-10, Share-Based Payment, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. The stock-based compensation carries a graded vesting feature subject to the condition of time of employment service with awarded stock-based compensation tranches vesting evenly upon the anniversary date of the award. The Company estimates the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option-pricing formula. In accordance with ASC 718-10-35-8, the Company elected to recognize the fair value of the stock award using the graded vesting method as time of employment service is the criteria for vesting. The Company amortizes the fair value of the stock award over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The Companys determination of fair value using an option-pricing model is affected by the stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly subjective variables. The Company estimates volatility based upon the historical stock price of the Company and estimates the expected term for stock options using the simplified method for employees and directors and the contractual term for non-employees. The risk-free rate is determined based upon the prevailing rate of United States Treasury securities with similar maturities. 33