Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. This Form 10-Q and other reports filed by the Company from time to time with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (collectively, the Filings) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the Filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks relating to the Companys business, industry, and the Companys operations and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, including the securities laws of the United States, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements to conform these statements to actual results. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Duos Technologies Group Inc. was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 (the Company) under the original name of Information Systems Associates (ISA). Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and development and licensing of Information Technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, ISA entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (duostech), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015. duostech was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, employs approximately 35 people and is a technology company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property, with core competencies that include advanced intelligent technologies that are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform. The Company through its operating subsidiary duostech is primarily engaged in the design and deployment of state-of-the-art, artificial intelligence driven intelligent technologies systems. The Company converges traditional security measures with information technologies to create actionable intelligence. The Companys strategy includes expansion of its technology base through organic development efforts, strategic partnerships, and growth through strategic acquisitions. The Company provides its broad range of technology solutions with an emphasis on mission critical security, inspection and operations within the rail transportation, commercial, petrochemical, government, and banking sectors. Duos Technologies Group also offers professional and consulting services for large data centers. Specifically, based upon the most recent capital raise, the Company is investing in sales and marketing resources to broaden its reach into the target markets, evaluate key requirements within those markets and add development resources to allow it to compete for additional projects in order to drive revenue growth. Further, the original business of IT Asset Management (ITAM) services for large data centers continues to operate as a division of the Company focusing its sales efforts through strategic partners. 17 Prospects and Outlook Over the past several years, we have made substantial investments in product research and development and achieved significant milestones in the development of our technology solutions. We have made progress in penetrating the market with our proprietary technology solutions, more particularly in the rail industry which is currently undergoing a major shift in maintenance strategies. We believe that this shift will be a significant motivating factor for using our technologies. We also continue to expand our IT professional audit services. Our business success in the immediate future will largely depend on the increased penetration of our target markets for our proprietary intelligent security analytical technology solutions. Notwithstanding the above, no assurance can be provided that our product offerings will generate the market acceptance and orders that we contemplate. Results of Operation The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 Compared to Three Months Ended March 31, 2017 The following table sets forth a modified version of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations that is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2018 2017 Revenue $ 1,147,930 $ 1,035,730 Cost of Revenue 671,359 631,388 Gross profit 476,571 404,342 Operating expenses 1,216,073 1,260,107 Loss from operations (739,502 ) (855,765 ) Other expense (3,602 ) (1,439,054 ) Net loss (743,104 ) (2,294,819 ) Series A preferred stock dividends (5,920 ) Net loss applicable to common stock $ (743,104 ) $ (2,300,739 ) Revenues Revenues were $1,147,930 and $1,035,730 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The comparative 11% increase in revenue during 2018 was largely the result of the increase in project revenue of almost 134% and an offset with a decrease of 87% in the IT asset management services and the budgeted 18% decrease in maintenance and technical support. The revenue increase in projects is a result of an ongoing transition to new offerings including intelligent analytics and machine learning from our traditional legacy security centric offerings. This growth is also the result of the recent capital raise which has provided an ability to execute projects in a timelier manner. Cost of Revenues Costs of revenues were $671,359 and $631,388 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in 2018 cost of the project implementation was related to increased project revenue. The costs of revenue did not increase proportionally to the increase in revenues indicating a shift from prototype systems which can experience higher costs of sales compared to revenues versus production systems which are now being implemented. The costs of revenue for completed projects are now close to historical norms and is expected to continue improvement as the year progresses. The lower rate of increase was also partially due to the decreases in costs of revenues in line with the decrease in revenue in the categories of IT asset management services and the budgeted decrease in maintenance and technical support. 18 Gross Profit Gross Profit was $476,571 and $404,342 for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The increase in gross profit of 18% was mainly the result of the increase in project revenues and the positive effect of new projects achieving gross margins close to historical norms. However, the implementation of ASC 606 covering revenue from contracts with customers, has a temporary impact on overall gross margin during the reporting period as certain costs are recognized ahead of revenues. This increase was partially offset by slightly higher costs overall in the IT asset management costs as well as maintenance and technical support. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $1,216,073 and $1,260,107 respectively, a 3% decrease of $44,034. This decrease in expenses was mainly due to a decrease in selling and marketing expenses, professional expenses and general and administration of $121,965. However, this decrease was offset by an increase of $77,931 in salaries, wages and contract labor and research and development expenses as the Company prepares for the implementation of new projects going forward. Loss Before Other Expense The loss from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $739,502 and $855,765, respectively. The 14% decrease in loss from operations was mostly due to the overall increase in revenue for the period, the decrease in cost of revenues affecting the overall gross profit and slightly lower operating expenses during the quarter. Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $5,728 and $921,314 respectively. The 99% decrease in interest expense in 2018 was almost entirely due to the elimination of non-cash charges incurred during 2017 in connection with debt discount and warrant amortization expense for bridge debt financing in 2016, which was subsequently repaid in late 2017. Other Income Other income for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $2,126 and $1, respectively. Net Loss The net loss for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 was $743,104 and $2,294,819, respectively, a 68% decrease. The $1,551,715 decrease in net loss is primarily attributable to the non-cash charges in 2017 of $921,314 in debt discount expense and $582,388 warrant derivative loss on debt related to bridge financing. Net loss applicable to Common Stock was $743,104 in 2018 versus $2,300,739 in 2017, a decrease of $1,557,635. The loss applicable to common stock in the first quarter of 2017 reflected a charge for Preferred Stock Dividends of $5,920. Net loss per common share was $(0.04) and $(1.21) for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows used in operating activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $1,627,913 and $675,526, respectively. The increase in cash flows used in operations for the three months ended March 31, 2018 was almost exclusively due to a more than $1.1 million increase in Accounts Receivable in concert with a $184,494 increase in costs and estimated earnings on uncompleted contracts. The draw down on cash as a result of these items is expected to be mitigated as time progresses and payments are received from clients. Cash flows used in investing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were $124,113 and $16,266, respectively representing an increase in investments in software development and lab equipment during the first quarter of 2018. 19 Cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities for the three months ended March 31, 2018 and 2017 were ($122,951) and $570,601, respectively. Cash flows used in financing activities during 2018 were primarily attributable to repayments of existing notes and short-term credit facilities. Cash flows provided by financing activities during 2017 were primarily attributable to proceeds from the draws on notes payable, partially offset by repayments of existing notes and short-term credit facilities. Since inception, we have funded our operations primarily through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) and debt securities. As of May 11, 2018, we had cash on hand of approximately $385,000. We have approximately $131,000 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. Reverse Split Effective April 26, 2017, the Company filed an Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation of the Company (the Amendment) to effectuate a reverse split of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock at a ratio of 1-for-35 (the Reverse Split). As a result of the Reverse Split, every thirty-five (35) shares of the Companys issued and outstanding common stock were consolidated into one (1) share of issued and outstanding common stock. The number of authorized shares remained unchanged. No fractional shares were issued in connection with the Reverse Split. Any fractional shares of common stock resulting from the Reverse Split were rounded up to the nearest whole share. On April 28, 2017, the Company received notice from Financial Industry Regulatory Authority that the Reverse Split was approved and took effect at the opening of trading on May 22, 2017. The Reverse Split has no impact on shareholders proportionate equity interests or voting rights in the Company or the par value of the Companys common stock, which remains unchanged. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Our current capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion although we are dependent on timely payments by our clients for projects and work in process. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods although these are not considered to be a factor at present. Our auditor has expressed substantial doubt regarding our ability to continue as a going concern . Management is unable to predict if and when we will be able to generate positive cash flow. Our plan regarding these matters is to use the funds from our most recent raise to allow us the ability to cover our current cash flow requirements and meet our obligations as they become due. If this is insufficient due to unforeseen circumstances, there can be no assurances that financing will be available or if available, that such financing will be available under favorable terms. If we are unable to generate adequate revenues to cover expenses and cannot obtain additional financing soon, we may seek protection under bankruptcy laws. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Estimates We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. 20 Share-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation is accounted for in accordance with the Share-Based Payment Topic of ASC 718 which requires recognition in the financial statements of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award of equity instruments over the shorter of the period the employee or director is required to perform the services in exchange for the award or the vesting period. The ASC also requires measurement of the cost of employee and director services received in exchange for an award based on the grant-date fair value of the award. Pursuant to ASC Topic 505-50, for share-based payments to consultants and other third-parties, compensation expense is determined at the measurement date. The expense is recognized over the service period of the award. Until the measurement date is reached, the total amount of compensation expense remains uncertain. The Company initially records compensation expense based on the fair value of the award at the reporting date. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of net contract revenues and the total estimated costs to determine progress towards contract completion, valuation of stock-based compensation, valuation of derivatives, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt, valuation of stock-based awards and valuation of loss contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.