Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. This Form 10-K and other reports filed by the Company from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect the current view of the Company with respect to future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ significantly from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, the Company cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance, or achievements. Except as required by applicable law, the Company does not intend to update any of the forward-looking statements. Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our consolidated financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview We intend for this discussion to provide information that will assist in understanding our financial statements, the changes in certain key items in those financial statements, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles affect our financial statements. Plan of Operation The Companys growth strategy includes expansion of its technology base through organic development efforts, strategic partnerships, and strategic acquisitions where appropriate. The Company provides its broad range of technology solutions with an emphasis on the Vision Technology market sector and, more specifically, the Machine Vision subsector. Machine Vision companies provide imaging-based automatic inspection and analysis for process control for industry with potential expansion into other markets. Duos is currently developing industry solutions for its target markets which will address rail, trucking, aviation and other vehicle-based processes. Duos initial offering, the Railcar Inspection Portal (RIP), provides both freight and transit railroad customers and select government agencies the ability to conduct fully automated railcar inspections of trains while they are moving at full speed. Specifically, based upon the current and anticipated business growth, the Company is investing in resources to focus on execution within its target markets. We continue to evaluate key requirements within those markets, our go-to-market strategy and add development resources to allow us to compete for additional projects to drive additional revenue growth. 17 Prospects and Outlook The Company made significant changes to its senior management team coming out of the COVID-19 pandemic to improve operational effectiveness. In addition to new C level personnel, the Company replaced its software and AI team with stronger talent including promoting one of the senior leaders to the position of Chief Technology Officer. The Company also replaced its Commercial team with seasoned rail industry personnel to improve its go-to-market plan with current and prospective customers. The Companys Board of Directors was strengthened with the addition of experienced leaders. Additionally, the company retained a number of long-term former rail industry executives in advisory roles to help guide the Companys growth strategy. The leadership teams focus is to improve operational and technical execution which will in turn enable the commercial side of the business to expand our product set into existing customers and to expand and diversify our current customer base. The travel and quarantine restrictions surrounding COVID-19 have largely diminished in 2021 and 2022 and the Companys primary customers have indicated readiness to order more equipment and services should the Company execute as expected on key deliverables over the next few months. Additionally, the new CEO has directed that the Company make engineering and software upgrades to the RIP to meet anticipated Federal Railroad Association (FRA), Transport Canada and Association of American Railroad (AAR) standards. The Company is expanding its focus in the rail industry to encompass passenger transportation and is currently in the process of delivering high-speed portals for a national rail carrier. The Company is expected to deliver at least two RIP solutions along with the initiation of a long-term services agreement during 2023. In addition, the Company is currently investigating other possible market expansion including Aviation, Trucking and Edge Data Centers. Although the Companys prospects and outlook are anticipated to be favorable for 2023, investing in our securities involves risk and careful consideration should be made before deciding to purchase our securities. There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control and unexpected macro events can have a severe impact on the business. Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements included in this report. For the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021 The following table sets forth a summary of our Consolidated Statements of Operations that is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Revenues $ 15,012,366 $ 8,259,917 Cost of revenue 10,264,263 6,220,373 Gross margin 4,748,103 2,039,544 Operating expenses 11,613,252 9,496,495 Loss from operations (6,865,149 ) (7,456,951 ) Other income 366 1,448,050 Net loss $ (6,864,783 ) $ (6,008,901 ) 18 Revenues For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 11,190,292 $ 5,871,666 91 % Services and consulting 3,822,074 2,388,251 60 % Total revenues $ 15,012,366 $ 8,259,917 82 % For the full year 2022, there was an 82% overall increase in revenues compared to 2021. The increase was driven by new revenues being recorded after lengthy delays in receiving notices to proceed for anticipated new contracts earlier in the year that pushed delivery dates into the second half of 2022 and into 2023. There was a significant increase in revenue from systems with a slightly lower increase in service revenues of 60% year-over-year. The increase in revenues stems directly from the delivery of two RIP projects across 2022 in addition to the onset of a new high-speed RIP project which the Company will continue to recognize well into 2023. Additionally, the growth in services and consulting stems from the Companys success in deploying artificial intelligence as well as change orders to existing services agreements during the year. The Company is focusing on increasing its business from services and the increase is the result of new contracts for existing and new systems which the Company anticipates will continue growing throughout 2023 and beyond. As previously discussed, management cautions that because of the delays in anticipated start dates, certain installations may produce revenues towards the end of 2023. Additionally, although the industries in which we operate have improved after the Covid-19 pandemic, other macro-economic effects are anticipated to impact us, including inflation and the current supply chain issues which are extending deadlines for shipment of key components used in our technology systems. The effect of this deferred some revenue recognition into 2023 as previously mentioned. These deferrals resulted in a slightly lower revenue growth performance than originally anticipated. However, the bulk of these deferred revenues are expected to be reported in 2023. The effects of inflation are not fully quantifiable at the current time but are beginning to be evident in increased costs for materials and labor and may result in higher costs for project implementation that cannot be wholly or even partially passed on to our customers and thus resulting in delaying our progress towards profitability. The Companys capital structure continues to allow us to weather the unexpected delays without significant operational impact and enables us to pursue large projects where the ability to deploy major resources is required. It should be noted that the Company recently increased its working capital to account for an increase in pre-contract procurement activities to avoid a slowdown in revenues caused by delays in receiving certain components as had been the case in previous years. The Company undertook a major review of operations during 2021 and made significant changes in staffing including additional engineering staff and revamping its software development and Artificial Intelligence staffing. These efforts have begun to yield benefits in 2022 as reflected in the improved systems revenues. This effort has improved delivery times on major projects and helps to offset some of the continued supply chain lags the Company has faced post-Covid-19. The Company continues to monitor the situation and procures materials ahead of contract award where feasible. The Company also expects to continue the growth with new revenue from other existing customers which we expect to be coming on-line in the next several months. In aggregate during 2022, the Company has been successful in the expansion of project and services contracts to account for new work. The services portion of revenues are driven by successful completion on projects and represents services and support for those installations. The recurring revenue portion of our revenue for services and consulting, continues to make-up a greater share of our revenues and this growth is expected to continue going forward. The Company expects to continue the growth with new, long term recurring revenue from existing customers which will be coming on-line in the next several months. Cost of Revenues For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 8,376,649 $ 4,728,197 77 % Services and consulting 1,887,614 1,492,176 27 % Total cost of revenues $ 10,264,263 $ 6,220,373 65 % 19 Cost of revenues largely comprises equipment, labor and overhead necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems. Cost of revenues on technology systems increased during the period compared to the equivalent period in 2021 by a slightly lower rate than the increase in revenues. The primary reason for the increased growth in costs year-over-year stems from additional project work related to the delivery of two Railcar Inspection Portals. Additionally, the Company made significant progress on the manufacturing of a special-purpose, high value Railcar Inspection Portal which it anticipates completing during 2023. The Companys costs are composed of materials, subcontractor costs and labor consisting of the Companys engineering, project management and software teams efforts to deliver on the aforementioned Railcar Inspection Portals. The cost of sales grew at a slower pace than revenues primarily because the Company neared completion of two of its portals and thus recognized additional profits on these projects as it satisfied its project-related obligations. Additionally, the Company saw improved revenue growth related to higher margin services and artificial intelligence during the year which contributed to revenue growth outpacing the change in cost of sales. These internal costs are being recognized against project and support revenues with a similar reduction in costs previously recognized for research and development, engineering development and internal support. In concert with this, there is a continued focus on construction costs and savings through efficiency, but the Company has elected to expand its key employees in anticipation of expected sales growth in technology systems and services in 2023 and beyond. Cost of revenues increased on services and consulting year-over-year albeit at a slower pace than the increase in services and consulting revenues. The increase in costs was a result of one-time services completed on existing RIP sites on which the Company incurred some additional material costs as well as project management and engineering team labor to complete the project. The year-over-year revenue from consulting and services increase outpaced the increase in costs which is a positive trend. The Company put into service additional artificial intelligence algorithms and maintenance and support services which are high margin and represent only marginal increases in the requisite costs to deliver these services. Gross Margin For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues $ 15,012,366 $ 8,259,917 82 % Cost of revenues 10,264,263 6,220,373 65 % Gross margin $ 4,748,103 $ 2,039,544 133 % Gross margin showed a significant improvement for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021. As noted above, the improvement in margin was a direct result of increased business activity the Company recognized in the latter half of 2022. The increased business activity was related to the manufacturing and near completion of installation of two Rail Inspection Portals, a number of one-time service events and significant progress made on a special-purpose, high-value RIP. The Company began to recognize revenue and profit on those activities in accord with its revenue recognition policy. The recognition of the revenue and subsequent profit from these major projects, as well as underlying services and maintenance revenues from existing projects, resulted in a 32% gross margin. By comparison for the full-year 2021, the Company had limited business activity from a handful of projects primarily related to customer site upgrades as well as lower underlying service revenues. This was as a result of project timing and delayed A.I. related services, which yielded a 25% gross margin. While the margins are not significantly different year-over-year, the Companys 82% increase in revenue from additional projects and services drove an overall higher gross margin-dollar amount. 20 Operating Expenses For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 1,337,186 $ 1,233,851 8 % Research and development 1,651,064 2,515,630 -34 % General and Administration 8,625,002 5,747,014 50 % Total operating expense $ 11,613,252 $ 9,496,495 22 % Overall operating expenses were higher by 22% in 2022 as compared to the full-year 2021. There was a marginal 8% increase in sales and marketing related to increased investment into the overall capability of the commercial team. Specifically, 2022 saw the Company bring in additional talent with direct experience from the technology and rail spaces. Research and development costs declined 34% during the year. This was the result of some of the technical resources from the IT and Engineering teams being consumed as part of the significant increase in project and service revenues and led to the Company performing additional project and one-time services work year-over-year. The offset of these charges reside in the cost of sales services and consulting. Additionally, general and administration costs increased approximately 50% because of a focus on employee retention and increased headcount to support the growth in its operating plan. Specifically, in 2022 the Company had charges related to staff retention via a discretionary performance program; this was a new initiative for the entire organization to drive higher performance and attract and retain better quality resources in a tight labor market as well as the related implementation and increased subsequent non-cash charges of an employee stock option plan. The Company still faces some pressure on existing staff compensation as a result of inflation during 2022 but remains focused to manage and stabilize administrative costs without interruption to customer service. Loss From Operations The losses from operations for the years ended, December 31, 2022 and 2021 were $6,865,149 and $7,456,951, respectively. The decrease in losses from operations during the year was the result of mostly improved revenues stemming from the deployment of new portals and receipt of materials and manufacturing related to a high value set of portals to be completed during 2023. These additional projects as well as an increase in services and consulting revenue increases and related margins outpaced the Companys increased general and administrative costs throughout 2022. As a result, the Company achieved near breakeven in the fourth quarter of 2022. The Company has continued to face inflation and supply chain pressures during 2022 and, as normal course of business, has worked to balance these impacts through management of customer contracts and cost control efforts. Interest Expense Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $9,191 and $20,268, respectively. The reduction in interest expense was primarily due to the financing charges related to insurance policies in 2021. Other Income Other income for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $9,557 and $1,468,318, respectively. The decrease is mainly due to the PPP loan forgiveness recorded in the first quarter of 2021. Net Loss The net loss for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $6,864,783 and $6,008,901, respectively. The increase in net loss is primarily attributable to the one-time effect of the PPP loan forgiveness gain in the first half of 2021. Despite the increased net loss year-over-year, the Company showed an improvement at the operating loss level. Net loss per common share was $1.11 and $1.63 for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2022, the Company has a cash balance of $1,121,092. 21 Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: For the Years Ended December 31, 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (7,873,307 ) $ (6,579,378 ) Net cash used in investing activities (644,888 ) (552,940 ) Net cash provided in financing activities 8,745,567 4,056,938 Net increase (decrease) in cash $ 227,372 $ (3,075,380 ) Net cash used in operating activities for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $7,873,307 and $6,579,378, respectively. The increase in net cash used in operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 was the result of higher expenditures related to current projects as previously discussed as well as expenditures related to projects which the Company anticipates will be completed in 2023. In addition, there are several changes in assets and liabilities that increased the use of cash in operations including increases in inventory for some long-lead components and accounts receivable. Additionally, $1,410,270 in funding from the CARES Act PPP loan program received in 2021 plus deferred interest was forgiven during the first quarter of 2021. Net cash used in investing activities for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $644,888 and $552,940, respectively. The Company continues to invest in computing, lab equipment and software and artificial development as reflected in the increase in 2022. Net cash provided in financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $8,745,567 and $4,056,938, respectively. Cash flows provided by financing activities during 2022 were primarily attributable to gross proceeds from the issuance of common and preferred stock to shareholders in the amount of $10,100,004, offset by $942,946 in issuance costs. 2022 marked an increase from 2021 financing activities $4,056,938 which was primarily underpinned from the gross proceeds of a private placement of $4,500,000. During 2022, we funded our operations through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) securities, and through revenues generated and cash received from ongoing project execution, services and associated maintenance revenues. As of March 28, 2023, we have cash on hand of approximately $4,500,000. We have approximately $165,500 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on the continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. Our current capital and access to further capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion we are now less dependent on timely payments by our customers for projects and work in process, however we expect such timely payments to continue. Material cash requirements will be satisfied within the normal course of business including substantial upfront payments from our customers prior to starting projects. In some cases, the Company may elect to purchase materials and supplies in advance of contract award but where there is a high probability of that award. Most, if not all, high value items that are pre-purchased, can be re-purposed if necessary. The maximum amount of material cash requirements not currently supported by up-front customer deposits is expected to be less than $1 million. Demand for the products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. In as much as a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may be adversely affected by our competitors and prolonged recession periods although these are not considered to be a factor at present. In the event of expansion into owning and operating its own Railcar Inspection Portals, the Companys cash requirements and timing may shift. Specifically, the Company would endeavor to buy all materials ahead of time and invest in the RIP with follow-on contracts for long-term services and licensing. While this would shift the Companys cash requirements, it anticipates a 12 18 month cash break-even point for each site and an opportunity for improved cash flows over time with high-margin agreements with the investment bolstered by access to further funding via common stock and private placement offerings. Liquidity Under Accounting Codification ASC 205, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (ASC 205-40), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40. 22 As reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $6,864,783 for the year ended December 31, 2022. During the same period, cash used in operating activities was $7,873,307. The working capital surplus and accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2022, were $2,339,052 and $52,361,834, respectively. In previous financial reports, the Company had raised substantial doubt about continuing as a going concern. This was principally due to a lack of working capital prior to an underwritten offerings and a private placement which were completed during the first quarter of 2022 and during third and fourth quarters of 2022 as well as the first quarter of 2023. As previously noted, the Company raised $4,500,000 from existing shareholders through the issuance of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock during 2021. Additionally, the Company was successful during 2022 in raising gross proceeds of over $10,100,000 from the sale of both common shares and Series D Preferred Stock. Additionally, late in the first quarter of 2023, the Company raised gross proceeds of $4,000,000 from the issuance of Series E Preferred Stock (See Note 16). As part of its strategy, the Company will endeavor to utilize the Preferred Series E and the remainder of the Series D as additional funding mechanisms. Additionally, during the second quarter of 2023, the Company will again have access to its S-3 shelf registration statement allowing the Company to sell additional common shares. At the time of this document, the Company estimates that it has available capacity on its shelf registration which it can utilize to bolster working capital and growth of the business in the event it did not have an uptake in the preferred classes of shares previously noted. Although additional investment is not assured, the Company is comfortable that it would be able to raise sufficient capital to support expanded operations based on an anticipated increase in business activity. In the long run, the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing its business plan, generate enough revenue, and attain consistently profitable operations. Although the lingering effects of the global pandemic related to the coronavirus (Covid-19) continue to affect our operations, particularly in our supply chain, we now believe that this is expected to be an ongoing issue and our working capital assumptions reflect this new reality. The Company cannot currently quantify the uncertainty related to the ongoing supply chain issues and its effects on our customers in the coming quarters. We have analyzed our cash flow under stress test conditions and have determined that we have sufficient liquid assets on hand or available via the capital markets to maintain operations for at least twelve months from the issuance date of this report. In addition, management has been taking and continues to take actions including, but not limited to, elimination of certain costs that do not contribute to short term revenue, and re-aligning both management and staffing with a focus on improving certain skill sets necessary to build growth and profitability and focusing product strategy on opportunities that are likely to bear results in the relatively short term. The Company believes that, with the combination of Series E Preferred Stock offering coupled with an S-3 shelf registration availability starting in the second quarter of 2023, it will have sufficient working capital to meet its obligations over the following twelve months. In the last twelve months the Company has seen significant growth in its contracted backlog as well as positive signs from new commercial engagements that indicate improvements in future commercial opportunities. Management believes that, at this time, the conditions in our market space with ongoing contract delays, the consequent need to procure certain materials in advance of a binding contract and the additional time needed to execute on new contracts previously reported have put a strain on our cash reserves. However, recent common stock offerings and private placements as well as the availability to raise capital via its shelf registration indicate there is no substantial doubt for the Company to continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months. We continue executing the plan to grow our business and achieve profitability. The Company may selectively look at opportunities for fund raising in the future. Management has extensively evaluated our requirements for the next 12 months and has determined that the Company currently has sufficient cash and access to capital to operate for at least that period. While no assurance can be provided, management believes that these actions provide the opportunity for the Company to continue as a going concern and to grow its business and achieve profitability with access to additional capital funding. Ultimately the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing the plan described above which was put in place in late 2022 and will continue in 2023 and beyond. As a result, we expect to generate sufficient revenue and to attain profitable operations with minimal cash use in the next 12 months. These consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments related to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should the Company be unable to continue as a going concern. 23 Revenue Recognition The Company follows Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), that affects the timing of when certain types of revenues will be recognized. The basic principles in ASC 606 include the following: a contract with a customer creates distinct contract assets and performance obligations, satisfaction of a performance obligation creates revenue, and a performance obligation is satisfied upon transfer of control to a good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized by evaluating our revenue contracts with customers based on the five-step model under ASC 606: 1. Identify the contract with the customer; 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations; and 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. The Company generates revenues from four sources: 1. Technology Systems; 2. AI Technology; 3. Technical Support; and 4. Consulting Services. Technology Systems For revenues related to technology systems, the Company recognizes revenue over time using a cost-based input methodology in which significant judgment is required to estimate costs to complete projects. These estimated costs are then used to determine the progress towards contract completion and the corresponding amount of revenue to recognize. Accordingly, the Company bases its technology systems revenue recognition on ASC 606-10-25-27, where control of a good or service transfers over time if the entitys performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity and the entity has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date including a profit margin or reasonable return on capital. Control is deemed to pass to the customer instantaneously as the goods are manufactured and revenue is recognized accordingly. In addition, the Company has adopted ASC 606-10-55-21 such that if the cost incurred is not proportionate to the progress in satisfying the performance obligation, we adjust the input method to recognize revenue only to the extent of the cost incurred. Therefore, the Company will recognize revenue at an equal amount to the cost of the goods to satisfy the performance obligation. To accurately reflect revenue recognition based on the input method, the Company has adopted the implementation guidance as set out in ASC-606-10-55-187 through 192. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable direct costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in contract assets. Any billings of customers more than recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in contract liabilities. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. AI Technologies The Company has revenue from applications that incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) in the form of predetermined algorithms which provide important operating information to the users of our systems. The revenue generated from these applications of AI consists of a fixed fee related to the design, development, testing and incorporation of new algorithms into the system, which is recognized as revenue at a point in time upon customer acceptance, as well as an annual application maintenance fee, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the contracted maintenance term. 24 Technical Support Technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized over time ratably over the term of the contract. Consulting Services The Companys consulting services business generates revenues under contracts with customers from four sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting and auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales; (3) Customer service training and (4) Maintenance support. (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) For all periods reflected in this report, software license sales have been one-time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third-party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly, the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short-term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one-year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. Multiple Performance Obligations and Allocation of Transaction Price Arrangements with customers may involve multiple performance obligations including project revenue and maintenance services in our Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our consulting services business, multiple performance obligations may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for a multiple performance obligations arrangement is as follows: Each performance obligation is accounted for separately when each has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each performance obligation is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for performance obligations sold in single performance obligation arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells its various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of performance obligations relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple performance obligations arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated, and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. Long-Lived Assets The Company evaluates the recoverability of its property, equipment, and other long-lived assets in accordance with FASB ASC 360-10-35-15 Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, which requires recognition of impairment of long-lived assets in the event the net book values of such assets exceed the estimated future undiscounted cash flows attributable to such assets or the business to which such intangible assets relate. This guidance requires that long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.