Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. This quarterly report on Form 10-Q and other reports filed by Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the Company), and its operating subsidiaries, Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos) and TrueVue360, Inc (TrueVue360, Duos Technologies Group, Inc. and Duos, collectively the Company we, our, and us) from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) contain or may contain forward-looking statements and information that are based upon beliefs of, and information currently available to, the Companys management as well as estimates and assumptions made by Companys management. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which are only predictions and speak only as of the date hereof. When used in the filings, the words anticipate, believe, estimate, expect, future, intend, plan, aim, project, target, will, may, should, forecast or the negative of these terms and similar expressions as they relate to the Company or the Companys management identify forward-looking statements. Such statements typically address the Companys expected future business and financial performance and are subject to risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors, including the risks contained in the Risk Factors section of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, relating to the Companys industry, the Companys operations and results of operations, and any businesses that the Company may acquire. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should the underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those anticipated, believed, estimated, expected, intended, or planned. These factors include, but are not limited to, risks related to the Companys ability to continue as a going concern, the Companys ability to generate sufficient cash to continue and expand operations, the competitive environment generally and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in technology, the availability of and the terms of financing, changes in costs and availability of goods and services, economic conditions in general and in the Companys specific market areas, changes in federal, state and/or local government laws and regulations potentially affecting the use of the Companys technology, changes in operating strategy or development plans and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The Company cautions that the foregoing list of risks, uncertainties and factors is not exclusive. Additional information concerning these and other risk factors is contained in the Companys most recently filed Annual Report on Form 10-K, subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, recent Current Reports on Form 8-K, and other filings filed by the Company with the SEC, which are available at the SECs website, http://www.sec.gov. The Company believes its plans, intentions and expectations reflected in or suggested by these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions. No assurance, however, can be given that the Company will achieve or realize these plans, intentions or expectations. Indeed, it is likely that some of the Companys assumptions may prove to be incorrect. The Companys actual results and financial position may vary from those projected or implied in the forward-looking statements and the variances may be material. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement. We do not undertake or accept any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect any change in our expectations or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any forward-looking statement is based, except as required by law. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements concerning the Company or other matters attributable to the Company or any person acting on its behalf are expressly qualified in their entirety by the cautionary statements above. Our financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These accounting principles require us to make certain estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. Our financial statements would be affected to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not require managements judgment in its application. There are also areas in which managements judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and notes thereto appearing elsewhere in this report. Overview Duos Technologies Group, Inc. (the Company) was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 under the original name of Information Systems Associates, Inc. Initially, our business operations consisted of consulting services for asset management of large corporate data centers and the development and licensing of information technology (IT) asset management software. In late 2014, the Company entered negotiations with Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos), for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger. This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015, whereby Duos became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Duos was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. The Company, based in Jacksonville, Florida, has a current staff of 75 people of which 69 are full time and is a technology and software applications company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property. The Companys core competencies, including advanced intelligent technologies, are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform, Centraco. 23 The Company has developed the Rail Inspection Portal (RIP) which provides both freight and transit railroad customers and select government agencies the ability to conduct fully remote railcar inspections of trains while they are in transit. The system, which incorporates a variety of sophisticated optical technologies, illumination and other sensors, scans each passing railcar to create a high-resolution image set from a variety of angles including the undercarriage. These images are then processed through various methods of artificial intelligence algorithms to identify specific defects and/or areas of interest on each railcar. This is all accomplished within seconds of a railcar passing through our portal. We believe this solution has the potential to transform the railroad industry by increasing safety, improving efficiency and reducing costs. The Company has deployed this system with several Class 1 railroad customers and anticipates an increased demand from transit and other railroad customers along with selected government agencies that operate and/or manage rail traffic in the future. Government agencies can conduct digital inspections combined with the incorporated artificial intelligence (AI) to improve rail traffic flow across borders which also directly benefits the Class 1 railroads through increasing their velocity. The Company has also developed the Automated Logistics Information System (ALIS) which automates gatehouse operations where transport trucks enter and exit large logistics and intermodal facilities. This solution also incorporates sensors and data points as necessary for each operation and directly interconnects with backend logistics databases and processes to streamline operations, and significantly improve operations and security and significantly improves the vehicle throughput on each lane on which the technology is deployed. The Company has built a portfolio of IP and patented solutions that creates actionable intelligence using two core native platforms called Centraco and Praesidium. All solutions provided include a variant of both applications. Centraco is designed primarily as the user interface for all our systems as well as the backend connection to third-party applications and databases through both Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) and Software Development Kits (SDKs). This interface is browser based and hosted within each one of our systems and solutions. It is typically also customized for each unique customer and application. Praesidium typically resides as middleware in our systems and manages the various image capture devices and some sensors for input into the Centraco software. The Company also developed a proprietary Artificial Intelligence software platform, Truevue360 with the objective of focusing the Companys advanced intelligent technologies in the areas of AI, deep machine learning and advanced multi-layered algorithms to further support our solutions. The Company previously provided professional and consulting services for large data centers and had developed a system for the automation of asset information marketed as DcVue. The Company deployed its DcVue software at one beta site. This software was used by Duos consulting auditing teams. DcVue was based upon the Companys OSPI patent which was awarded in 2010. The Company offered DcVue available for license to our customers as a licensed software product. The Company ceased offering this product in 2021. The Companys strategy is to deliver operational and technical excellence to our customers; expand our RIP and ALIS solutions into current and new customers focused in the Rail, Logistics and U.S. Government Sectors; offer both CAPEX and OPEX pricing models to customers that increases recurring revenue, grows backlog and improves profitability; responsibly grow the business both organically and through selective acquisitions; and promote a performance-based work force where employees enjoy their work and are incentivized to excel and remain with the Company. Prospects and Outlook The Companys focus is to improve operational and technical execution which, we believe, will in turn enable the commercial side of the business to expand RIP and ALIS delivery into existing customers and to expand and diversify our current customer base. Even though COVID-19 is expected to still be an issue during the remainder of 2022, the Companys primary customers have indicated readiness to order more equipment and services should the Company execute as expected on key deliverables. Additionally, the Company is making engineering and software upgrades to the RIP to meet anticipated Federal Railroad Association (FRA) and Association of American Railroad (AAR) standards. Similar upgrades are also being developed to improve the ALIS system. These upgrades will continue to be released throughout 2022 and are expected to drive revenue growth this year and beyond. The Company is expanding its focus in the rail industry to encompass passenger transportation and was awarded a large, multi-year contract with a national rail carrier. The Company anticipates that it will manufacture a two-RIP solution for the carrier in 2022 and, along with a long-term services agreement complete delivery during the second quarter of 2023. 24 Although the Companys prospects and outlook are anticipated to be favorable for the remainder of 2022, investing in our securities involves risk and careful consideration should be made before deciding to purchase our securities. There are many risks that affect our business and results of operations, some of which are beyond our control and unexpected macro events can have a severe impact on the business. Please see the risk factors identified in Item 1A Risk Factors of our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 31, 2022. Results of Operations The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. Comparison for the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 Compared to Three Months Ended September 30, 2021 The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations and is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 Revenues $ 4,022,238 $ 1,740,457 Cost of revenues 2,922,686 1,668,796 Gross margin 1,099,552 71,661 Operating expenses 2,968,570 2,518,154 Loss from operations (1,869,018 ) (2,446,493 ) Other income (expense) (56,050 ) (3,944 ) Net loss $ (1,925,068 ) $ (2,450,437 ) Revenues For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 2,709,899 $ 1,153,150 135 % Services and consulting 1,312,339 587,307 123 % Total revenues $ 4,022,238 $ 1,740,457 131 % The substantial increase in overall revenues for the quarter ended September 30, 2022 compared to the quarter ended September 30, 2021, is primarily related to the production and start of installation of new and upgraded RIPs which are recorded in the technology systems portion of our business. We expect this trend to continue for the rest of 2022 and into 2023, although supply chain issues continue to extend deadlines for shipment of key components used in our technology systems. While certain orders were delayed from 2021 into 2022, we remain encouraged by the breadth and scope of recent bids in which we have participated. Management cautions that because of the delays in anticipated start dates, certain installations may produce revenues towards the end of 2022, some of which may ultimately be recorded in 2023. Additionally, although the industries in which we operate are showing early signs of recovery from the delays as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, other macro-economic effects are anticipated to impact us, including inflation and the aforementioned supply chain issues. The effect of this will be to push some revenue recognition later into the fourth quarter of 2022 or into 2023. The effects of inflation are not quantifiable at the current time but are now evident in increased costs for materials and labor. These effects may result in higher costs for project implementation that cannot be partially or in some cases, wholly passed on to our customers and thus resulting in delaying our progress towards profitability. We believe the Companys capital structure allows us to weather the unexpected delays without significant operational impact and enables us to pursue large projects requiring the ability to deploy major resources. It should be noted that the Company increased its liquidity in early 2022 to account for an increase in pre-contract procurement activities to avoid a slowdown in revenues caused by delays in receiving certain components. The Company continues to review operations during 2022 and adjust staffing in concert with the business demands with a particular focus on Artificial Intelligence research, development and production. Although the Company implemented a rapid development initiative in early 2021, which was intended to enable the Company to respond to market driven demand more quickly, this effort has been somewhat negated by ongoing supply chain issues. This effort was expected to shorten delivery times on major projects and result in significant revenue growth however, the previously discussed supply chain issues continue to slow the anticipated benefits at this time. The Company is monitoring the situation and continues to procure materials ahead of formal contract award. 25 The growth of the services portion of revenues are driven by the successful completion of projects and represent services and support for those installations. The Company expects growth with new revenue from existing customers, including services revenue as the result of new maintenance contracts being established on installations coming on-line during 2022 and into 2023. The Company also anticipates renewals of existing and backlog contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being installed. Cost of Revenues For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 2,176,761 $ 1,363,127 60 % Services and consulting 745,925 305,669 144 % Total cost of revenues $ 2,922,686 $ 1,668,796 75 % Cost of revenues largely comprises equipment and labor necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems and software projects. Cost of revenues on technology systems increased during the three months ended September 30, 2022 over the equivalent period in 2021, in a manner consistent with the increase in revenues and as a result of additional project works ongoing for the Company. In the third quarter of 2022, the Company was nearly complete in the manufacture and installation of two Rail Inspection Portals for its Class 1 customers and began to phase into the procurement and manufacture of two more expensive and more robust transit-oriented RIPs. By comparison, for the quarter ended September 2021, the Company had activity related to two site upgrades which had only begun to be manufactured thereby contributing to the increase in cost of revenues year-over-year. The Company also continues to face headwinds with supply disruption and cost. While we expect that macro-economic factors will continue to drive prices, the Company expects its structural realignment to eventually aid in lowering costs as a percentage of the overall system price going forward although inflation may impede this effort. As previously noted, the Companys organization and related cost structure was realigned to provide the capability to manufacture, install and support multiple production systems simultaneously. In accordance with this shift in structure, certain staff were re-assigned or replaced, and new staff added in key areas, particularly engineering, software development and AI. In conjunction with these organizational changes, increased costs are now being recognized against project and support revenues. While there is a continued focus on construction costs and savings through efficiency, the Company elected to expand its key employees in 2021 and early 2022 in anticipation of expected sales growth in technology systems and services which is now being realized. We also expect these changes to have a positive long-term impact as we believe they will enable the Company to deliver a higher number of systems in a given period, with a shorter period of implementation and with better quality and reliability, as operations become standardized in anticipation of expected higher demand for systems, particularly in the rail industry. Cost of revenues on services and consulting increased in the three months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the prior year period with the change primarily driven by costs associated with one-time services completed in the third quarter of 2022 and follows a similar trend to the year-over-year change in services and consulting revenues for the third quarter. When comparing the third quarter of 2022 and the equivalent period in 2021, an overall positive trend on service and consulting revenue is expected to continue as the Company anticipates that an increasing amount of the revenue will be derived from recurring revenue and services and consulting follow a similar trend as the change in revenue. Costs of revenues on services and consulting are expected to increase in future years concurrent with the increase in revenues albeit at a slower rate. The Company focused on streamlining support operations in 2021, and despite the additional resources allocated to these activities in anticipation of higher recurring revenue in 2022 and beyond, we expect higher gross margins as the Company grows. As discussed previously, the impact of inflation may negatively affect the costs of revenues such that we may experience higher costs for materials and labor, including higher employee and sub-contractor costs that cannot be passed along in all cases. Management is continuing to monitor this situation and expects to take actions as the full impact of these cost increases is understood. This may take the form of higher prices and continued evaluation of costs to attempt to reduce the overall costs to offset the additional expenses, although this is not assured. Gross Margin For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues $ 4,022,238 $ 1,740,457 131 % Cost of revenues 2,922,686 1,668,796 75 % Gross margin $ 1,099,552 $ 71,661 1,434 % 26 Gross margin showed a significant improvement for the third quarter of 2022 as compared to the same period in 2021. As noted above, the improvement in margin was a direct result of increased business activity the Company, recognized in the third quarter of 2022 related to the manufacturing and near completion of installation in the delivery of two Rail Inspection Portals and one-time major site services for one customer. The Company began to recognize revenue and profit on those activities in conformity with its revenue recognition policy. The recognition of the revenue and subsequent profit from these major projects yielded the higher gross margins of approximately 25% for the period. By comparison to the third quarter of 2021, the Company had only initiated procurement and some manufacturing for site upgrades for a customer and as a result recognized no profit on the works of approximately $1 million resulting in a dilutive, low margin for the period ended September 30, 2021 bolstered by the services and consulting gross margin for the quarter. It should be noted that when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor into those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing those periods. Operating Expenses For the Three Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 297,057 $ 361,820 -18 % Research and development 329,424 332,469 -1 % General and administration 2,342,089 1,823,865 28 % Total operating expenses $ 2,968,570 $ 2,518,154 18 % Overall operating expenses during the three months ended September 30, 2022 were marginally higher compared to the equivalent period in 2021. The Company saw only slight decreases in cost for sales and marketing and research and development with a larger increase in general and administration costs during the same period for 2022 partially attributable to the Companys new office space and non-cash compensation for staff. Overall, the Company continues to focus on stabilizing operating expenses while meeting the increased needs of our customers. Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $1,869,018 and $2,446,493, respectively. The decrease in loss from operations was primarily the result of higher revenues recorded in the quarter resulting from increases in both our technology systems and services and consulting, slower growth in costs of those revenues and flat operating expenses. Other Income/Expense Other income for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was a negative $53,993 and $875 for the comparative period in 2021. Other expense for the three months ended September 30, 2022 was $2,057 and $4,819 for the comparative period in 2021. Net Loss The net loss for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $1,925,068 and $2,450,437, respectively. The 21% decrease in net loss was mostly attributed to the increase in revenues as described above along with slower growing expenses. Net loss per common share was $0.30 and $0.68 for the three months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 27 Comparison for the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 Compared to Nine Months Ended September 30, 2021 The following table sets forth a summary of our unaudited Consolidated Statements of Operations and is used in the following discussions of our results of operations: For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 Revenues $ 9,078,696 $ 4,543,879 Cost of revenues 6,474,464 4,239,006 Gross margin 2,604,232 304,873 Operating expenses 8,509,343 7,522,134 Loss from operations (5,905,111 ) (7,217,261 ) Other income (expense) (7,245 ) 1,407,921 Net loss $ (5,912,356 ) $ (5,809,340 ) Revenues For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues: Technology systems $ 6,273,213 $ 2,743,849 129 % Services and consulting 2,805,483 1,800,030 56 % Total revenues $ 9,078,696 $ 4,543,879 100 % The increase in overall revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 is primarily related to the previously discussed start of production and new installations in the technology systems portion of our business and continuing increases in our services and consulting revenues. The Third quarter of 2022 marked the near completion of two RIPs as well as work towards a larger $8 million project to be delivered across 2022 and into 2023. The Company also recognized in the first half of 2022 a number of change orders tied to transit projects which were not present when compared to the same period in 2021. We believe the Companys capital structure allows us to weather the unexpected delays without significant operational impact and enables us to pursue large projects requiring the ability to deploy major resources. As previously discussed, the Company increased its working capital in early 2022 to account for an increase in pre-contract procurement activities to avoid a slowdown in revenues caused by delays in receiving certain components. The services portion of revenues is driven by the successful completion of projects and represents services and support for those installations. The Company expects growth with new revenue from existing customers, including services revenue as the result of new maintenance, artificial intelligence and subscription contracts being established on installations coming on-line during 2022. The Company also anticipates renewals of existing contracts and a shift to the next generation of technology systems which are currently being installed. Cost of Revenues For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Cost of revenues: Technology systems $ 5,016,551 $ 3,162,866 59 % Services and consulting 1,457,913 1,076,140 35 % Total cost of revenues $ 6,474,464 $ 4,239,006 53 % Cost of revenues largely comprises equipment, labor and overhead necessary to support the implementation of new systems and support and maintenance of existing systems. 28 Cost of revenues on technology systems increased during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the equivalent period in 2021, which is consistent with the change in revenue over the same period albeit cost of revenues grew at a slower rate. The higher level of cost was mainly due to higher costs related to higher revenues from two RIP projects as well as the larger transit-focused RIPs noted above. By comparison, the Company had a reduced level of activity for the same period in 2021 with cost of revenues on technology systems primarily driven by two site upgrades as well as delayed costs from 2020 projects. Additionally, through September 30, 2021 the Company had not fully recognized project costs nor progressed through manufacturing to the same levels it has for the first nine months of 2022. Across the year, the Company has continued to see impacts from supply chain disruptions and inflation on cost of revenues and worked to mitigate this where feasible. Services and consulting costs rose for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 over the same period in 2021 in part due to one-time repairs and upgrade services to a number of customer systems and is offset by increased service and consulting revenue. While we expect that macro-economic factors will continue to drive prices, the Company expects its structural realignment to aid in lowering costs as a percentage of the overall system price going forward by leveraging internal skillsets rather than those of a third party some of which contribute to the increased services and consulting on a year-over-year comparison. As previously noted, the Companys organization and related cost structure were realigned to provide the capability to manufacture, install and support multiple production systems simultaneously. In accordance with this shift in structure, certain staff were re-assigned or replaced, and new staff added in key areas, particularly engineering, software development and AI. In conjunction with these organizational changes, increased costs are now being recognized against project and support revenues. While there is a continued focus on construction costs and savings through efficiency, the Company has elected to expand its key employees in 2021 and early 2022 in anticipation of expected sales growth in technology systems and services. We also expect these changes to have a positive long-term impact as we believe they will enable the Company to deliver a higher number of systems in a given period, with a shorter period of implementation and with better quality and reliability. Cost of revenues on services and consulting increased in the nine months ended September 30, 2022 compared to the prior year period in-line with the increase in revenues from services and consulting for the current year period as compared to the prior year period. Cost of revenues on services and consulting grew at a lower rate than that of the service and consulting revenues with both changes largely driven by a one-time service event for one customer. This overall positive trend on service and consulting revenue is expected to continue as the Company continues to drive more recurring revenue. Costs of revenues on services and consulting are expected to increase in future periods but at a slower rate than revenue growth. The Company focused on streamlining support operations in 2021, and despite the additional resources allocated to these activities in anticipation of higher recurring revenue in 2022 and beyond, we expect higher gross margins as the Company grows. As discussed previously, the impact of inflation may negatively affect the costs of revenues such that we may experience higher costs for materials and labor, including higher employee and sub-contractor costs that cannot be passed along in all cases. Management is continuing to monitor this situation and expects to take actions as the full impact of these cost increases is understood. This may take the form of higher prices and continued evaluation of costs to attempt to reduce the overall costs to offset the additional expenses, although this is not assured. Gross Margin For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Revenues $ 9,078,696 $ 4,543,879 100 % Cost of revenues 6,474,464 4,239,006 53 % Gross margin $ 2,604,232 $ 304,873 754 % As previously discussed, the Company has revamped its operations to support an anticipated increase in the number of new systems going forward. The resultant additional cost of revenues was covered by a greater increase in revenues during the first nine months of 2022. We continue to anticipate continued improvement in the overall gross margin for the full year of 2022, with much of the improvement beginning in the third quarter and carrying into the fourth quarter as a result of increased commercial and manufacturing activity. The improvement in gross margin for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 is a result of the Companys efforts to deliver two Rail Inspection Portals to existing customers, which are now largely complete, and in accordance with the Companys revenue recognition policy, have begun to recognize higher revenue and profit on these projects. Additionally, the Company has realized profits in the first half of 2022 related to change orders tied to a larger transit-oriented RIP project. By comparison to the nine months ended September 30, 2021, the Company had minimal project work with approximately $1 million of revenue recognized with no profit in-line with its revenue recognition policy as the Company was in the early stages of manufacturing and delivery of the projects and the profits were ultimately realized in the fourth quarter of 2021. This, in addition to some delayed costs for the completion of a 2020 project created a depressive effect on gross margins for the first nine months of 2021 especially when compared to the same period in 2022. The Company continued to face challenges with inflation and supply chain disruption across the first nine months of 2022. Despite these challenges, the Companys organizational changes noted above have helped to alleviate some of these challenges. However, management continues to monitor the impacts of inflation on the Companys cost of revenues going forward and mitigate where possible in the form of higher system prices and evaluation of alternatives. As previously discussed, when comparing the results between two periods, the stage of completion for manufacturing and installation can factor int those comparisons and should be taken into account when analyzing the results for those periods. 29 Operating Expenses For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 % Change Operating expenses: Sales and marketing $ 956,937 $ 1,024,872 -7 % Research and development 1,296,480 1,163,341 11 % General and administration 6,255,926 5,333,921 17 % Total operating expenses $ 8,509,343 $ 7,522,134 13 % Overall operating expenses during the nine months ended September 30, 2022 increased by 13% compared to the equivalent period in 2021. While sales and marketing were down slightly, research and development costs and general and administration costs increased by 11% and 17% respectively, although some of the increased administration costs were related to non-cash compensation for certain staff members and new office space. The overall increase in operating expense is primarily related to the growing business and the effects of inflation on salaries and general overhead. At the current time, we continue to expect overall costs to grow due to macro-economic factors in addition to organic growth costs increasing related to the business. Where possible, the Company continues to focus on stabilizing operating expenses while meeting the increase needs of our customers. Loss from Operations The loss from operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $5,905,111 and $7,217,261, respectively. The decrease in losses from operations was primarily the result of higher revenues recorded in the period as a consequence of the start of new projects and receipt of materials for production and initiation of manufacturing and installation. A positive trend was the higher revenue recorded without a corresponding greater relative cost of sales even with higher costs of materials resulting from supply chain disruptions and inflation. Other Income/Expense Other expense for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was $7,245 compared to other income of $1,407,921 in the comparative period of 2021. The change is primarily due to the one-time event of the PPP loan forgiveness recorded in the first quarter of 2021. Net Loss The net loss for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $5,912,356 and $5,809,340, respectively. The increase in net loss was mostly attributed to the lower revenues and higher costs in 2021 being offset by the one-time PPP loan forgiveness recorded in the first quarter of 2021 as other income. Net loss per common share was $1.01 and $1.63 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, and 2021, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2022, the Company has a working capital surplus of $2,723,497 as compared to a negative working capital of $651,381 and a net loss of $6,008,901 at December 31, 2021. Cash Flows The following table sets forth the major components of our statements of cash flows data for the periods presented: For the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (3,850,455 ) $ (5,522,668 ) Net cash used in investing activities (416,517 ) (310,776 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 8,338,718 4,122,315 Net increase (decrease) in cash $ 4,071,746 $ (1,711,129 ) 30 Net cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $3,850,455 and $5,522,668, respectively. The decrease in net cash used in operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 was the result of cash inflows from new projects offset by cash outflows to procure necessary materials and overall sales, general and administrative expenses. In addition, there are several changes in assets and liabilities compared to the previous period that decreased the use of cash in operations, notably the change in contract liabilities due to the timing of project invoicing milestones and cash receipts. Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022 and 2021 was $416,517 and $310,776, respectively, representing an increase in the purchase of various fixed assets for computer equipment and product and software development. Net cash provided by financing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, and 2021 was $8,338,718 and $4,122,315, respectively. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the first nine months of 2022 were primarily attributable to net proceeds of approximately $8,500,000 from issuances of common stock and $999,000 from the issuance of Series D Convertible Preferred Stock. Cash flows from financing activities during the first nine months of 2021 were primarily attributable to the issuance of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock for $4,500,000. During 2022, we funded our operations through the sale of our equity (or equity linked) securities, and through revenues generated and cash received from ongoing project execution, services, and associated maintenance revenues. As of November 8, 2022, we have cash on hand of approximately $4,500,000. We have approximately $165,500 in monthly lease and other mandatory payments, not including payroll and ordinary expenses which are due monthly. On a long-term basis, our liquidity is dependent on continuation and expansion of operations and receipt of revenues. We believe our current capital and revenues are sufficient to fund such expansion and our operations over the next twelve months, although we are dependent on timely payments by our customers for projects and work in process. However, we expect such timely payments to continue. Material cash requirements will be satisfied within the normal course of business including substantial upfront payments from our customers prior to starting projects. In some limited cases, the Company may elect to purchase materials and supplies in advance of contract award but where there is a high probability of that award. Demand for our products and services will be dependent on, among other things, market acceptance of our products and services, the technology market in general, and general economic conditions, which are cyclical in nature. Because a major portion of our activities is the receipt of revenues from the sales of our products and services, our business operations may continue to be challenged by our competitors and prolonged recession periods. Liquidity Under Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2014-15, Presentation of Financial StatementsGoing Concern (Subtopic 205-40) (ASC 205-40), the Company has the responsibility to evaluate whether conditions and/or events raise substantial doubt about its ability to meet its future financial obligations as they become due within one year after the date that the financial statements are issued. As required by ASC 205-40, this evaluation shall initially not take into consideration the potential mitigating effects of plans that have not been fully implemented as of the date the financial statements are issued. Management has assessed the Companys ability to continue as a going concern in accordance with the requirement of ASC 205-40. As reflected in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements, the Company had a net loss of $5,912,356 for the nine months ended September 30, 2022. During the same period, net cash used in operating activities was $3,850,455. The working capital surplus and accumulated deficit as of September 30, 2022 were $2,723,497 and $51,409,407, respectively. In previous financial reports, the Company had raised substantial doubt about continuing as a going concern. This was principally due to a lack of working capital prior to an underwritten offering receiving net proceeds of approximately $5,500,000 from the successful sales of common stock which was completed during the first quarter of 2022 (the Q1 2022 Offering) followed by approximately $3,200,000 in net proceeds for a combination offering of common stock and Preferred Series D Convertible Stock (the Q3 2022 Offering). As previously noted, in 2021, the Company raised $4,500,000 from existing shareholders through the issuance of Series C Convertible Preferred Stock. 31 Although additional investment is not assured, the Company is comfortable that it would be able to raise sufficient capital to support expanded operations based on the current increase in business activity. In the long run, the continuation of the Company as a going concern is dependent upon the ability of the Company to continue executing the plan described above, generate enough revenue, and eventually attain consistently profitable operations. Although the current global pandemic related to the coronavirus (COVID-19) has affected our operations, particularly in our supply chain, we now believe that this is expected to be an ongoing issue and our working capital assumptions reflect this new reality. In addition, inflationary pressures will cause some pressure on margins which the Company expects to offset by higher prices, although this is not assured. The Company also cannot currently quantify the uncertainty or impact related to the recession that has now been confirmed by broadly accepted economic standards and the effects on our customers in the coming quarters. We have analyzed our cash flow under stress test conditions and have determined that we have sufficient liquid assets on hand to maintain operations for at least twelve months from the date of this report. Management believes that, at this time, the conditions in our market space with ongoing contract delays, the consequent need to procure certain materials in advance of a binding contract and the additional time needed to execute on new contracts previously reported have put a strain on our cash reserves. However, recent events, including a $8,750,000 injection of funds from sales of securities, significant recent orders, and the overall stabilization of the business, indicate that there is not a substantial doubt for the Company to continue as a going concern for a period of twelve months from the issuance of this report. We continue executing the plan to grow our business and achieve profitability without the requirement to raise additional capital for existing operations for 2022, although we may do so to fund selective opportunities that may arise. Management has extensively evaluated our requirements for the next twelve months from the issuance date of this report and has determined that the Company currently has sufficient cash to operate for at least that period. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates We have identified the accounting policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated, and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company reviews its accounts to estimate losses resulting from the inability of its customers to make required payments. Any required allowance is based on specific analysis of past due accounts and also considers historical trends of write-offs. Past due status is based on how recently payments have been received from customers. Stock-Based Compensation The Company accounts for employee stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-10, Share-Based Payment , which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to employees and directors including employee stock options, restricted stock units, and employee stock purchases based on estimated fair values. Determining Fair Value Under ASC 718-10 The Company estimates the fair value of stock options granted using the Black-Scholes option-pricing formula. This fair value is then amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards, which is generally the vesting period. The Companys determination of fair value using an option-pricing model is affected by the stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly subjective variables. The Company estimates volatility based upon the historical stock price of the Company and estimates the expected term for stock options using the simplified method for employees and directors and the contractual term for non-employees. The risk-free rate is determined based upon the prevailing rate of United States Treasury securities with similar maturities. 32 Revenue Recognition The Company follows Accounting Standards Codification 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), that affects the timing of when certain types of revenues will be recognized. The basic principles in ASC 606 include the following: a contract with a customer creates distinct contract assets and performance obligations, satisfaction of a performance obligation creates revenue, and a performance obligation is satisfied upon transfer of control to a good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized by evaluating our revenue contracts with customers based on the five-step model under ASC 606: 1. Identify the contract with the customer; 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract; 3. Determine the transaction price; 4. Allocate the transaction price to separate performance obligations; and 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied. The Company generates revenue from four sources: (1) Technology Systems; (2) AI Technologies; (3) Technical Support and (4) Consulting Services. For revenues related to technology systems, the Company recognizes revenue over time using a cost-based input methodology in which significant judgment is required to estimate costs to complete projects. These estimated costs are then used to determine the progress towards contract completion and the corresponding amount of revenue to recognize. Accordingly, the Company now bases its revenue recognition on ASC 606-10-25-27, where control of a good or service transfers over time if the entitys performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the entity and the entity has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date including a profit margin or reasonable return on capital. Control is deemed to pass to the customer instantaneously as the goods are manufactured and revenue is recognized accordingly. In addition, the Company has adopted ASC 606-10-55-21 such that if the cost incurred is not proportionate to the progress in satisfying the performance obligation, we adjust the input method to recognize revenue only to the extent of the cost incurred. Therefore, the Company will recognize revenue at an equal amount to the cost of the goods to satisfy the performance obligation. To accurately reflect revenue recognition based on the input method, the Company has adopted the implementation guidance as set out in ASC-606-10-55-187 through 192. Under this method, contract revenues are recognized over the performance period of the contract in direct proportion to the costs incurred. Costs include direct material, direct labor, subcontract labor and other allocable indirect costs. All un-allocable indirect costs and corporate general and administrative costs are also charged to the periods as incurred. Any recognized revenues that have not been billed to a customer are recorded as an asset in contract assets. Any billings of customers more than recognized revenues are recorded as a liability in contract liabilities. However, in the event a loss on a contract is foreseen, the Company will recognize the loss when such loss is determined. The Company has revenue from applications that incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) in the form of predetermined algorithms which provide important operating information to the users of our systems. The revenue generated from these applications of AI consists of a fixed fee related to the design, development, testing and incorporation of new algorithms into the system, which is recognized as revenue at a point in time upon acceptance, as well as an annual application maintenance fee, which is recognized as revenue ratably over the contracted maintenance term. Technical support services are provided on both an as-needed and extended-term basis and may include providing both parts and labor. Maintenance and technical support provided outside of a maintenance contract are on an as-requested basis, and revenue is recognized over time as the services are provided. Revenue for maintenance and technical support provided on an extended-term basis is recognized over time ratably over the term of the contract. 33 The Companys consulting services business generates revenues under contracts with customers from four sources: (1) Professional Services (consulting and auditing); (2) Software licensing with optional hardware sales; (3) Customer service training and (4) Maintenance support. (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short-term duration, are recognized when services are completed; (2) For all periods reflected in this report, software license sales have been one-time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third-party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly, the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer; (3) Training sales are one-time upfront short-term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed; and (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one-year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. Multiple Performance Obligations and Allocation of Transaction Price Arrangements with customers may involve multiple performance obligations including project revenue and maintenance services in our Technology Systems business. Maintenance will occur after the project is completed and may be provided on an extended-term basis or on an as-needed basis. In our consulting services business, multiple performance obligations may include any of the above four sources. Training and maintenance on software products may occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Revenue recognition for a multiple performance obligations arrangement is as follows: Each performance obligation is accounted for separately when each has value to the customer on a standalone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price of the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each performance obligations is recognized using the applicable criteria under GAAP as discussed above for performance obligations sold in single performance obligation arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells its various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of performance obligations relative selling price allocation. The Company only sells maintenance services or spare parts based on its established rates after it has completed a system integration project for a customer. The customer is not required to purchase maintenance services. All elements in multiple performance obligations arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The most significant estimates in the accompanying unaudited consolidated financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of intangible and other long-lived assets, estimates of net contract revenues and the total estimated costs to determine progress towards contract completion, valuation of inventory, estimates of the valuation of right of use assets and corresponding lease liabilities, valuation of warrants issued with debt, and valuation of stock-based awards. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.