ITEM 2. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes contained elsewhere in this form 10-Q. Certain statements made in this discussion are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by terminology such as may, will, should, expects, intends, anticipates, believes, estimates, predicts, or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology and include, without limitation, statements below regarding: the companys ability to continue as a going concern; the companys intended business plans; the ability to raise working capital; expectations as to market acceptance of the companys products; and belief as to the sufficiency of cash reserves. Because forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, there are important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. these factors include, but are not limited to, the companys ability to continue as a going concern; the companys inability to raise funds to continue operations; the effect of a going concern statement by the companys auditors on our ability to raise needed financing; the success of our recent merger with Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos); the success of the merged operations; the closing of the planned acquisition of Uni-Data and Communications Inc. (UDC); the companys ability to raise the funds needed to close the UDC transaction; the companys ability to integrate combined operations, assuming that the UDC transaction is completed; the companys ability to implement the plans going forward, including the integration of UDC into the company; the competitive environment generally and in the companys specific market areas; changes in technology; the availability of and the terms of financing; changes in costs and availability of goods and services; economic conditions in general and in the companys specific market areas; demographic changes; changes in federal, state and /or local government law and regulations affecting the technology; changes in operating strategy or development plans; and the ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Although the company believes that expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot guarantee future results, performance or achievements. Moreover, neither the company nor any other person assumes responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of these forward-looking statements. the company is under no duty to update any forward-looking statements after the date of this report to conform such statements to actual results. OUR COMPANY Information Systems Assocaites, Inc. (ISA) was incorporated in Florida on May 31, 1994 to engage in the business of developing software for the financial and asset management industries. We developed a methodology for the efficient data collection of assets contained within a data center and was awarded a patent in 2010. ISA is dedicated to the mission of developing, marketing and delivering software and professional services to the worlds largest data centers in the area of IT Asset Management (ITAM). ISAs strategy has always been to expand its technology base and has been engaged in several development efforts in the past three years. More recently, we began seeking out and engaging in discussions with other companies with the intention of partnering and merging or being acquired. In late 2014, we entered into negotiations with Duos Technologies for the purposes of executing a reverse triangular merger whereby Duos would become a wholly owned subsidiary of ISA .This transaction was completed on April 1, 2015. Duos Technologies, Inc. (Duos) was incorporated under the laws of Florida on November 30, 1990 for the purpose of design, development and deployment of proprietary technology applications and turn-key engineered systems. Duos, based in Jacksonville, Florida, employs approximately 30 people and is a technology company with a strong portfolio of intellectual property, with core competencies that include advanced intelligent technologies that are delivered through its proprietary integrated enterprise command and control platform. ( 12 ) (table of contents) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the unaudited financial statements included in this report. For the Three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to Three months ended March 31, 2014 Revenues Revenues were $5,071 and $127,165 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The decrease in revenue for 2015 is due to a decrease in software sales and professional services revenue of $122,094. The significant decrease in revenue results from the winding down of the Companys operations related to software sales in anticipation of the merger with Duos Technologies as a part of a strategy to consolidate software platforms. During the quarter, the Company also terminated its own software development efforts with a third party developer. The slowdown in revenues was also compounded by the main customer not re-engaging us for certain professional services projects. Cost of Revenues Costs of revenues were $0 and $72,436 for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The decrease in 2015 cost of revenues is due to no professional services contracts being awarded during the quarter. Our professional services are largely provided by contract staffs who receive no payments other than during the execution of services contracts. Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were $394,030 and $269,084, respectively. The increase in operating expenses resulted from an increase in administrative and general expense, and professional fees expense of $80,579 and $132,438, respectively. These increases were related to increased costs related to the Merger, greater use of outside resources to continue operations (offset by reductions of in-house staff and increased financing costs related to the slowdown in overall revenues. These amounts were offset by a decrease in salaries and employee benefits of $88,071. The significant increase in professional fees was related to the costs of completing the merger. The increase in administrative and general was balanced with a decrease in salaries and benefits as the company replaced certain staff with contract services related to the Merger and general operations of the Company. Loss before other Income (Expense) The loss from operations for the three months ended, March 31, 2015 and 2014 was $388,959 and $214,355, respectively. The increase in loss from operations for the three months ended March 31, 2015 is attributable to the decrease in overall revenue of approximately $122,094 and an increase in certain operating expenses. Other Income (Expense) Interest Expense Interest expense for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was $145,641 and $37,692, respectively. The increase in interest expense primarily resulted primarily from an increase in non-cash note payable discount interest expense of $105,926 as a result of the settlement of certain convertible notes and other financing costs related to on-going working capital requirements during the transition period prior to the merger with Duos Technologies. ( 13 ) (table of contents) Net Loss Net loss for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 was $534,100 and $252,047, respectively. The approximate $282,000 increase in net loss was due to the decrease in gross profit of $49,658, increases in total operating expenses of $124,946 and an increase in interest expense of $105,926. Net loss per common share was $1.31 and $1.65 for the period ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Weighted average common shares outstanding for the three month period ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 were 408,915 shares and 152,997 shares, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash flows used in operations were $61,158 and $207,954, respectively, during the periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Cash flows used in operations during the periods ended March 31, 2015 were primarily attributable to a net loss of $534,100 offset by accrued payroll and interest of $28,013 and $32,301 respectively. Cash flows used in operations during the periods ended March 31, 2014 were primarily attributable to a net loss of $252,047 offset by depreciation and amortization expense, stock option expense, amortization of beneficial conversion value discounts, of $1,429, $14,875, $38,010 and $3,099, respectively and a decrease in accounts receivable of $27,894. During the periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, we experienced no effect from investing activities. Cash flows provided by financing activities were $59,026 and $208,441, respectively, during the periods ended March 31, 2015 and 2014. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the period March 31, 2015 were provided primarily by proceeds from related party, offset by repayments. Cash flows provided by financing activities during the period March 31, 2014 were provided primarily by proceeds from the sale of common stock and warrants of $190,000 and $61,000 of proceeds from note payable related party, offset by repayments of $42,427. As of May 20, 2015 we had cash on hand of $136,115. Currently, the Company is expecting to collect approximately $1M in cash from Accounts Receivable by June 30, 2015. However, if certain payments are delayed and if we are unable to generate other revenues sufficient to support our operations we will require additional debt or equity financing to meet the working capital needs of the Company. We need to raise additional funds in order to meet our on-going operating requirements, including the integration of Duos following the merger, pay outstanding loans due as of May 20, 2015 in the aggregate approximate amount of $2,109,000 and to realize our business plan. We believe that our currently existing cash resources, including anticipated revenue stream, are sufficient to satisfy our operating requirements through June 30, 2015, provided that we generate through June 30, 2015 approximately $1 million in revenues and that we are able to defer the outstanding loans. If we are unable to raise additional capital through a capital raise or revenues, it may be necessary for us to take measures to reduce our cash burn including laying-off personnel, or suspending or deferring certain activities . No assurance can be given that we will be able to raise the needed capital. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Such going concern qualification may make it more difficult for us to raise funds. In addition, any additional equity financings is likely to be dilutive to holders of our Common Stock and debt financing, if available, may require us to be bound by significant repayment obligations and covenants that restrict our operations. ( 14 ) (table of contents) OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have no-off balance sheet contractual arrangements, as that term is defined in Item 303(a)(4) of Regulation S-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Revenue Recognition The Company recognizes revenue in accordance with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104, "Revenue Recognition" and Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605-25 which addresses Revenue Recognition for the software industry. The general criteria for revenue recognition under ASC 985-605 for our Company which sells software licenses which do not require any significant modification or customization is that revenue is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectability is probable. The Company generates revenue from three sources: (1) professional Services (consulting & auditing); (2) software licensing with optional hardware sales; and (3) customer service (training & maintenance/support). For sales arrangements that do not involve multiple elements: (1) Revenues for professional services, which are of short term duration, are recognized when services are completed, (2) Throughout the date of this report, software license sales have been one time sales of a perpetual license to use our software product and the customer also has the option to purchase third party manufactured handheld devices from us if they purchase our software license. Accordingly the revenue is recognized upon delivery of the software and delivery of the hardware, as applicable, to the customer. (3) Training sales are one time upfront short term training sessions and are recognized after the service has been performed. (4) Maintenance/support is an optional product sold to our software license customers under one year contracts. Accordingly, maintenance payments received upfront are deferred and recognized over the contract term. Arrangements with customers may involve multiple elements of the above sources. Training and maintenance on software products will generally occur after the software product sale while other services may occur before or after the software product sale and may not relate to the software product. Each element is accounted for separately when each element has value to the customer on a stand-alone basis and there is Company specific objective evidence of selling price of each deliverable. For revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables, the Company allocates the total customer arrangement to the separate units of accounting based on their relative selling prices as determined by the price for the items when sold separately. Once the selling price is allocated, the revenue for each element is recognized using the general and specific criteria under GAAP as discussed above for elements sold in non-multiple element arrangements. A delivered item or items that do not qualify as a separate unit of accounting within the arrangement are combined with the other applicable undelivered items within the arrangement. The allocation of arrangement consideration and the recognition of revenue is then determined for those combined deliverables as a single unit of accounting. The Company sells it various services and software and hardware products at established prices on a standalone basis which provides Company specific objective evidence of selling price for purposes of multiple element relative selling price allocation. All elements in multiple element arrangements with Company customers qualify as separate units of account for revenue recognition purposes. Accounts Receivable and Factoring Accounts receivable are stated at estimated net realizable value. Accounts receivable are comprised of balances due from customers net of estimated allowances for uncollectible accounts. In determining the collections on the account, historical trends are evaluated and specific customer issues are reviewed to arrive at appropriate allowances. The Company accounts for the sale of our accounts receivable to a third party in accordance with ASC 860-10-40-5 Transfers and Servicing. ASC 860-10 requires that several conditions be met in order to present the sale of accounts receivable net of related debt in the asset section of our balance sheet. Even though we have isolated the transferred (sold) assets and we have the legal right to transfer our assets (accounts receivable) we do not meet the third test of effective control since our accounts receivable sales agreement requires us to be liable in the event of default by one of our customers. Because we do not meet all three conditions, we do not qualify for sale treatment and our debt incurred with respect to the sale of our accounts receivable is presented as a liability on our balance sheet. Share-Based Compensation We follow the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, Compensation Stock Compensation . The fair values of share-based payments are estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model, based on weighted average assumptions. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility of our common stock. We have elected to use the simplified method described in the Securities and Exchange Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 14C to estimate the expected term of employee stock options. The risk-free rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period of the award. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of stock-based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. As a result, if factors change and we use different assumptions, our stock-based compensation expense could be materially different in the future. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Significant estimates in the accompanying financial statements include the allowance on accounts receivable, valuation of deferred tax assets, valuation of warrants issued with debt, valuation of beneficial conversion features in convertible debt, valuation of stock-based awards, valuation of long-lived assets for impairment and the measurement and useful lives of property and equipment. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. ( 15 ) (table of contents)