ITEM 2: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, including with respect to the ongoing effects of COVID-19, new or planned features or services, or management strategies, including our portfolio review). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part I - Item 1A: Risk Factors of the companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2020 (the 2020 Form 10-K), as well as in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report. When we refer to we, our, us or eBay in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. OVERVIEW Business eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader, which includes our Marketplace platforms. Founded in 1995 in San Jose, California, eBay is one of the worlds largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. Collectively, we connect millions of buyers and sellers around the world, empowering people and creating opportunity. Our technologies and services are designed to provide buyers choice and a breadth of relevant inventory and to enable sellers worldwide to organize and offer their inventory for sale, virtually anytime and anywhere. In 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic and continues to be widespread with uncertainty around its duration. As a result of COVID-19 mobility restrictions globally, there have been changes in consumer behavior that have resulted in more online shopping. We expect these changes in behavior to continue to evolve as the pandemic progresses. During the pandemic our Marketplace platforms experienced improved traffic and buyer acquisition due to the ongoing impact of measures taken globally to contain the spread of COVID-19. The Marketplace platforms also experienced improved acquisition of small business sellers. While the impact of COVID-19 has had a positive impact on our reported results, its uncertain whether this consumer behavior will continue as mobility restrictions are eased or lifted. The impacts seen to date may continue to create volatility in our results and a wider range of outcomes as consumer behaviors and mobility restrictions continue to evolve. See Results of Operations below for impacts of COVID-19 on our results for the three months ended March 31, 2021. For additional information, see Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements below and Item 1A: Risk Factors under the caption The global COVID-19 pandemic could harm our business and results of operations in the 2020 Form 10-K. On July 20, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to transfer our Classifieds business to Adevinta ASA (Adevinta) for $2.5 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments, and approximately 540 million shares in Adevinta. These shares would represent, approximately 44% of Adevintas total outstanding shares and approximately 33% of Adevintas outstanding voting shares, based on the number of Adevintas outstanding shares as of June 30, 2020. Together, the total consideration payable under the definitive agreement is valued at 30 approximately $9.2 billion, based on the closing trading price of Adevinta shares on the Oslo Stock Exchange on July 17, 2020. We believe the transaction will close in the second quarter of 2021. Completion of the transaction is subject to certain conditions, including receipt of certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. We have classified the results of our Classifieds business as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated statement of income for the periods presented. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations are classified as held for sale in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. See Note 3 Discontinued Operations in our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information. Presentation In addition to the corresponding measures under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. The foreign exchange neutral (FX-Neutral), or constant currency, net revenue amounts discussed below are non-GAAP financial measures and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, the FX-Neutral information appearing in the following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with the information provided below in Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance , which includes reconciliations of FX-Neutral financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. Quarter Highlights Net revenues increased 42% to $3.0 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. FX-Neutral net revenue increased 38% during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. Operating margin increased to 27.9% for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to 26.5% for the same period in 2020. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased to $0.82 during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $0.57 in the same period in 2020. We generated cash flow from continuing operating activities of $938 million during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to $614 million in the same period in 2020. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we repaid approximately $1.1 billion of debt comprising of $750 million for the 6.000% senior notes due 2056 and $395 million of the 2.600% senior fixed rates notes due 2022, paid $292 million for repurchases of common stock and paid $122 million in cash dividends. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have one reportable segment to reflect the way management and our chief operating decision maker (CODM) review and assess performance of the business. Our reportable segment is Marketplace, which includes our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com, its localized counterparts and the eBay suite of mobile apps. The accounting policies of our segment are the same as those described in Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period segment presentation. 31 Net Revenues Seasonality We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to mirror general consumer buying patterns and expect that these trends will continue. As we introduce new products and platforms, such as managed payments, we expect net revenues to fluctuate. In addition, macroeconomic conditions, such as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, may also contribute to fluctuations in revenues and margins. The following table sets forth sequential quarterly movements of our total net revenues for the periods presented (in millions, except percentages): Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 2019 Net revenues $ 2,161 $ 2,156 $ 2,083 $ 2,236 % change from prior quarter (6) % % (3) % 7 % 2020 Net revenues $ 2,129 $ 2,668 $ 2,606 $ 2,868 % change from prior quarter (5) % 25 % (2) % 10 % 2021 Net revenues $ 3,023 $ $ $ % change from prior quarter 5 % Net Revenues by Geography Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies primarily based upon the country in which the seller, platform that displays advertising, other service provider or customer, as the case may be, is located. The following table presents net revenues by geography for the periods presented (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 As Reported U.S. $ 1,296 $ 822 58 % Percentage of net revenues 43 % 39 % International 1,727 1,307 32 % Percentage of net revenues 57 % 61 % Total net revenues $ 3,023 $ 2,129 42 % Our commerce platforms operate globally, resulting in certain revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies, including the British pound, euro and Korean won. In addition, as shown in the table above, we generate a majority of our net revenues internationally. Because of these factors, we are subject to the risks related to doing business in foreign countries as discussed in Part I - Item 1A: Risk Factors of the 2020 Form 10-K. Net revenues included $28 million of hedging losses during the three ended March 31, 2021, as compared to immaterial hedging gains during the same period in 2020. The hedging activity in net revenues specifically relates to hedges of net transaction revenues. Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of $80 million on net revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to an unfavorable impact of $35 million during the same period in 2020. The effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily attributable to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, British pound and Korean won. 32 Net Revenues by Type We generate two types of net revenues: Net transaction revenues primarily include final value fees, feature fees, including fees to promote listings, and listing fees from sellers on our platforms. Our net transaction revenues also include store subscription and other fees, often from large enterprise sellers. Our net transaction revenues are reduced by incentives, including discounts, coupons and rewards, provided to our customers. Marketing services and other (MS&O) revenues consist of revenues principally from the sale of advertisements, revenue sharing arrangements and first-party inventory programs. The following table presents net revenues by type (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Net transaction revenue $ 2,732 $ 1,900 44 % Marketing services and other revenues 291 229 27 % Total net revenues $ 3,023 $ 2,129 42 % Net Transaction Revenues Key Operating Metrics Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) and take rate are significant factors that we believe affect our net transaction revenues. GMV consists of the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on our platforms during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. Despite GMVs divergence from revenue, we still believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of closed transactions that flow through our platforms in a given period, notwithstanding the inclusion in GMV of closed transactions that are not ultimately consummated. Take rate is defined as net transaction revenues divided by GMV. Net Transaction Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2021 2020 As Reported FX-Neutral (In millions, except percentages) Net transaction revenues (1) $ 2,732 $ 1,900 44 % 40 % Supplemental data: GMV $ 27,460 $ 21,259 29 % 24 % Take rate 9.95 % 8.93 % 1.02 % (1) Net transaction revenues were net of $28 million hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and immaterial hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2020, respectively. Net transaction revenues increased during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 primarily due to an increase in GMV and take rate. GMV growth was due to improved traffic and buyer acquisition due to global restrictions implemented to contain the spread of COVID-19 which resulted in consumers engaging in more online shopping during the pandemic. 33 Transaction take rate was higher during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020, due to the expansion of managed payments and promoted listings, which along with final value fees are calculated as a percentage of an items sale price and category mix. The increase in take rate was partially offset by category mix and hedging activities. Marketing Services and Other Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2021 2020 As Reported FX-Neutral (In millions, except percentages) MS&O $ 291 $ 229 27 % 22 % The increase in MS&O revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily attributable to our first-party inventory program in Korea and an increase in revenues from revenue sharing agreements for shipping arrangements. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues primarily consists of costs associated with customer support, site operations, costs of goods sold and payment processing. Significant components of these costs include employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense, first-party inventory program costs, bank transaction fees, credit card interchange and assessment fees and digital services tax. The following table presents cost of net revenues (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Cost of net revenues $ 823 $ 502 64 % Percentage of net revenues 27.2 % 23.6 % Cost of net revenues, net of immaterial hedging activities, was unfavorably impacted by $26 million attributable to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. The increase in cost of net revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily due to an increase in payment processing costs as we continue to transition customers to our payments platform, an increase in cost of goods sold related to our first-party inventory program in Korea and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. 34 Operating Expenses The following table presents operating expenses (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Sales and marketing $ 687 $ 520 32 % Percentage of net revenues 23 % 24 % Product development 318 232 37 % Percentage of net revenues 11 % 11 % General and administrative 258 207 24 % Percentage of net revenues 9 % 10 % Provision for transaction losses 88 96 (8) % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 5 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 7 7 % Total operating expenses $ 1,358 $ 1,062 28 % Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact of $39 million on operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020. There was no hedging activity within operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2021. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and marketing program costs (both online and offline), employee compensation, certain user coupons and rewards, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising primarily includes brand campaigns and buyer/seller communications. The increase in sales and marketing expense during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily due to an increase in online and offline advertising expenses, an unfavorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar and employee related costs. Product Development Product development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major platform and other product development efforts, including the development and maintenance of our technology platform. Our top technology priorities include payment intermediation capabilities and improved seller tools and buyer experiences built on a foundation of structured data. The increase in product development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs. Capitalized internal use and platform development costs were $31 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These costs are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. 35 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. The increase in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily due to employee related costs and workforce reduction costs incurred in 2021. Provision for Transaction Losses Provision for transaction losses primarily consists of transaction loss expense associated with our buyer protection programs, losses from our managed payments services, fraud and bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance. We expect our provision for transaction losses to fluctuate depending on many factors, including changes to our protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. The decrease in provision for transaction losses during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily due to provisions recognized in 2020 related to COVID-19 and lower bad debt expense as a result of fees collection through the managed payments platform. These decreases were partially offset by higher customer protection program costs as a result of increased volume and chargeback losses incurred for managed payments as we scale the platform. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, gains and losses due to changes in fair value of the warrant received from Adyen, our portion of operating results from investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, investment gain/loss on acquisitions or disposals and interest expense, consisting of interest charges on any amounts borrowed and commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, if any. The following table presents interest and other, net (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 % Change Total interest and other, net $ (117) $ 1 ** Percentage of net revenues (4) % % ** Not meaningful The decrease in interest and other, net during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily attributable to the change in the fair value of the Adyen warrant, a gain recorded in 2020 related to the receipt of proceeds that were held in escrow related to a long-term investment that was sold in 2018, foreign exchange losses and lower interest income. 36 Income Tax Provision The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 Income tax provision $ 156 $ 135 Effective tax rate 21.5 % 23.8 % The decrease in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the same period in 2020 was primarily due an increased tax benefit from stock-based compensation. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we cannot assure you that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, we believe it is impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. Discontinued Operations On July 20, 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement with Adevinta ASA (Adevinta) to transfer our Classifieds business to Adevinta for $2.5 billion in cash, subject to certain adjustments, and approximately 540 million shares in Adevinta. Together, the total consideration payable under the definitive agreement is valued at approximately $9.2 billion, based on the closing trading price of Adevintas outstanding shares on the Oslo Stock Exchange on July 17, 2020. We believe the transaction will close in the second quarter of 2021. Completion of the transaction is subject to certain conditions, including receipt of certain regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. As a result, we have classified the results of our Classifieds business as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated statement of income for the periods presented. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations are classified as held for sale in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. See Note 3 Discontinued Operations in our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information. Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we use FX-Neutral net revenues, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. We define FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect. We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors overall understanding of our current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign currency exchange rate impact that may not be indicative of our core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, we believe that the inclusion of these non-GAAP measures provide consistency in our financial reporting. 37 The following tables set forth a reconciliation of FX-Neutral GMV and FX-Neutral net revenues (each as defined below) to our reported GMV and net revenues for the periods presented (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1)(3) FX-Neutral (2) As Reported As Reported % Change FX-Neutral % Change GMV $ 27,460 $ 1,149 $ 26,311 $ 21,259 29 % 24 % Net Revenues: Net transaction revenues $ 2,732 $ 69 $ 2,663 $ 1,900 44 % 40 % Marketing services and other revenues 291 11 280 229 27 % 22 % Total net revenues $ 3,023 $ 80 $ 2,943 $ 2,129 42 % 38 % (1) We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts excluding hedging activity. (2) We define FX-Neutral GMV as GMV minus the exchange rate effect. We define the non-GAAP financial measures of FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect. (3) Net transaction revenues were net of $28 million of hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2021, and net of immaterial hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2021 2020 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Continuing operating activities $ 938 $ 614 Continuing investing activities 266 (1,568) Continuing financing activities (1,169) (3,159) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (11) (34) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash - discontinued operations 103 4,050 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 127 $ (97) Continuing Operating Activities Cash provided by continuing operating activities of $938 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to net income of $641 million with adjustments for income from discontinued operations of $72 million, $140 million in depreciation and amortization, $106 million in stock-based compensation, $88 million in provision for transaction losses, $95 million for deferred income taxes, adjustments of $36 million for changes in the fair value of the Adyen warrant and $10 million related to the loss extinguishment of debt, partially offset by $105 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects. Continuing Investing Activities Cash provided by continuing investing activities of $266 million in the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to proceeds of $3.8 billion from the maturities and sales of investments partially offset by cash paid for investments of $3.4 billion and property and equipment of $83 million. 38 Continuing Financing Activities Cash used in continuing financing activities of $1.2 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to debt repayments of $1.2 billion, which was comprised of $750 million related to our 6.000% senior fixed rate notes due 2056 that were redeemed and $405 million related to our 2.600% senior fixed rate notes due 2022 that were repurchased pursuant to a tender offer, cash paid to repurchase $304 million of common stock, paid $122 million in cash dividends, partially offset by commercial paper issuances of $400 million and net funds receivable and payable activity of $32 million. The negative effect of exchange rate movements on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Korean won and Japanese yen during the three months ended March 31, 2021 compared to the 2020 year-end rate. Stock Repurchases In January 2020, our Board authorized a $5.0 billion stock repurchase program and in February 2021, our Board authorized an additional $4.0 billion stock repurchase program. These stock repurchase programs have no expiration from the date of authorization. Our stock repurchase programs are intended to programmatically offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock to reduce our outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions (including accelerated share repurchase transactions) or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we repurchased approximately $292 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. As of March 31, 2021, a total of approximately $5.7 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. We expect, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties, to continue making opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. Dividends The Company paid a total of $122 million and $114 million in cash dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2021 and March 31, 2020, respectively. In April 2021, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.18 per share of common stock to be paid on June 18, 2021 to stockholders of record as of June 1, 2021. 39 Debt Senior Notes As of March 31, 2021, we had floating- and fixed-rate senior notes outstanding for an aggregate principal amount of $6.6 billion. The net proceeds from the issuances of these senior notes are used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, capital expenditures, share repurchases, repayment of indebtedness and possible acquisitions. The floating rate notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. We may redeem some or all of the other fixed rate notes of each series at any time and from time to time prior to their maturity, generally at a make-whole redemption price plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a change of control triggering event (as defined in the applicable senior notes) occurs with respect to the 3.800% fixed rate notes due 2022, the floating rate notes due 2023, the 2.750% fixed rate notes due 2023, the 1.900% fixed rate notes due 2025, the 3.600% fixed rate notes due 2027 or the 2.700% fixed rate notes due 2030, we must, subject to certain exceptions, offer to repurchase all of the notes of the applicable series at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. For additional details related to our senior notes, please see Note 9 Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. During 2020, we began to hedge the variability of the cash flows in interest payments associated with our floating-rate debt using interest rate swaps. These interest rate swap agreements effectively convert our LIBOR-based floating-rate debt to a fixed-rate basis, reducing the impact of interest-rate changes on future interest expense. The total notional amount of these interest swaps was $400 million as of March 31, 2021 with terms calling for us to receive interest at a variable rate and to pay interest at a fixed rate. Our interest rate swap contracts have maturity dates in 2023. The indenture pursuant to which the senior notes were issued includes customary covenants that, among other things and subject to exceptions, limit our ability to incur, assume or guarantee debt secured by liens on specified assets or enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to specified properties, and also includes customary events of default with customary grace periods in certain circumstances, including payment defaults and bankruptcy-related defaults. Commercial Paper We have a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes in an aggregate principal amount at maturity of up to $1.5 billion outstanding at any time with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. As of March 31, 2021, there were $400 million of commercial paper notes outstanding, with a weighted average interest rate of 0.20% per annum, and a weighted average remaining term of 25 days. Credit Agreement In March 2020, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for an unsecured $2 billion five-year credit facility. We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $1 billion. Funds borrowed under the credit agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. The credit agreement replaced our prior $2 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement dated November 2015, which was terminated effective March 2020. As of March 31, 2021, no borrowings were outstanding under our $2 billion credit agreement. However, as described above, we have an up to $1.5 billion commercial paper program and are required to maintain available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they become due, in an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion. As of March 31, 2021, $400 million borrowings were outstanding under our commercial paper program; therefore, $1.6 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. The credit agreement includes a covenant limiting our consolidated leverage ratio to no more than 4.0:1.0, subject to, upon the occurrence of a qualified material acquisition, if so elected by us, a step-up to 4.5:1.0 for the four fiscal quarters completed following such qualified material acquisition. The credit agreement includes customary events of default, with corresponding grace periods in certain circumstances, including payment defaults, cross-defaults and bankruptcy-related defaults. In addition, the credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and subsidiary indebtedness, in each case, 40 subject to customary exceptions. The credit agreement also contains customary representations and warranties. We were in compliance with all financial covenants in our outstanding debt instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2021. Credit Ratings As of March 31, 2021, we were rated investment grade by Standard and Poors Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook), Moodys Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated BBB, short-term rated F-2, with a positive outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, as described above, will likely increase our borrowing costs. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of March 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020, we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments from continuing operations, in an aggregate amount of $3.9 billion and $4.1 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2021, this amount included assets held in certain of our foreign operations totaling approximately $3.4 billion. As we repatriate these funds to the U.S., we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes on those amounts during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have accrued deferred taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the U.S. We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, including, without limitation, as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, repayment of debt and stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. However, COVID-19 and related measures to contain its impact have caused material disruptions in both national and global financial markets and economies. The future impact of COVID-19 and these containment measures cannot be predicted with certainty and may increase our borrowing costs and other costs of capital and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and we cannot assure that we will have access to external financing at times and on terms we consider acceptable, or at all, or that we will not experience other liquidity issues going forward. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2021, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. This arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the same financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). This arrangement also allows us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under the arrangement. As of March 31, 2021, we had a total of $4.5 billion in aggregate 41 cash deposits, partially offset by $4.2 billion in cash withdrawals, held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement. Indemnification Provisions We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with PayPal to govern the separation and relationship of the two companies. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and PayPal, which may be significant. In addition, the indemnity rights we have against PayPal under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us and our indemnity obligations to PayPal may be significant. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors, executive officers and certain other officers. These agreements require us to indemnify such individuals, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, for certain liabilities to which they may become subject as a result of their affiliation with us. In the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations, including our standard marketing, promotions and application programming interface license agreements. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to our performance under the subject agreement. In certain cases, we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively.