ITEM 2: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report. This section of this Form 10-Q generally discusses items relating to the three-month periods ended March 31, 2025 and 2024 and comparisons between the respective periods. OVERVIEW Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, when we refer to we, our, us, eBay or the Company in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we mean eBay Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Business eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader that connects people and builds communities to create economic opportunity for all. Our technology empowers millions of buyers and sellers in more than 190 markets around the world, providing everyone the opportunity to grow and thrive. Our Marketplace platforms, including our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its localized counterparts, our off-platform marketplaces and our suite of mobile apps, together, create one of the world's largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) grew during the first quarter of 2025 as we executed on our strategy across Focus Categories, country-specific investments, and horizontal initiatives. GMV growth was partially offset by pressure in discretionary spending across most of our largest markets primarily resulting from geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility, elevated interest rates, and lower consumer confidence. FX-Neutral Presentation In addition to presenting net revenues in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we also present foreign exchange neutral (FX-Neutral) net revenues to supplement our results of operations presented in accordance with GAAP and to enhance investors understanding of our global business performance by excluding the positive or negative year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on reported net revenues. We define FX-Neutral net revenues as GAAP net revenues minus the exchange rate effect, which we calculate by applying prior period foreign currency exchange rates to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity. We believe presenting FX-Neutral net revenues provides useful information to both management and investors by isolating the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that may not be indicative of our core operating results. In addition, as we have historically reported certain FX-Neutral results to investors, we believe that continuing to include these FX-Neutral measures provides consistency in our financial reporting. FX-Neutral net revenues are non-GAAP financial measures that are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and may be calculated differently than other FX-Neutral, constant currency, or similarly titled measures used by other companies. FX-Neutral net revenues are not presented as an alternative to GAAP net revenues and should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with GAAP net revenues. 39 Table of Contents Quarter Highlights Net revenues increased 1% to $2,585 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $2,556 million during the same period in 2024. Operating margin decreased to 23.8% compared to 24.7% during the same period in 2024. We generated cash flow from continuing operating activities of $787 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $615 million in the same period in 2024. We repurchased $625 million of common stock and paid $134 million in cash dividends. In January 2025, we repaid the $450 million aggregate principal amount of the previously outstanding commercial paper notes on the dates of maturity, and in March 2025, we issued $575 million of commercial paper notes. In March 2025, we repaid the $800 million aggregate principal amount of our previously outstanding 1.900% senior notes due 2025 on the date of maturity. In April 2025, our Board of Directors (our Board) declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.29 per share of common stock to be paid on June 13, 2025 to stockholders of record as of May 30, 2025. 40 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have one reportable segment, which reflects how our chief operating decision maker (CODM), our President and Chief Executive Officer, reviews and assesses performance of the business. This reportable segment includes our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its localized counterparts, our off-platform marketplaces and our suite of mobile apps. The accounting policies of this segment are the same as those described in Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Net Revenues We generate revenues from the following activities: Marketplace revenues primarily consist of commissions related to the connection service including final value fees, listing fees, feature fees, and foreign exchange fees. Marketplace revenues also include store subscription fees, shipping fees, and certain other fees. Marketplace revenues are reduced by customer incentive programs, including discounts, coupons, and rewards. Advertising revenues primarily consist of fees charged to sellers to promote their listings on our Marketplace platforms, as well as third-party advertising fees. The following table presents net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change Marketplace revenues (1) $ 2,143 $ 2,172 (1) % Advertising revenues (1) 442 384 15 % Net revenues $ 2,585 $ 2,556 1 % (1)Beginning January 1, 2025, we began classifying certain immaterial revenues previously reported as Marketplace revenues as Advertising revenues. Amounts reported for the three months ended March 31, 2025 reflect this updated basis of presentation. Under this updated basis of presentation, Marketplace and Advertising revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2024 would have been $2,160 million and $396 million, respectively. Seasonality We expect volume on our Marketplace platforms to trend with general consumer buying patterns. Seasonal trends in net revenues have been influenced by macroeconomic conditions, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, as well as the introduction and scaling of new products and initiatives. The following table presents our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly movements of these net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 2023 Net revenues $ 2,510 $ 2,540 $ 2,500 $ 2,562 % change from prior quarter % 1 % (2) % 2 % 2024 Net revenues $ 2,556 $ 2,572 $ 2,576 $ 2,579 % change from prior quarter % 1 % % % 2025 Net revenues $ 2,585 $ $ $ % change from prior quarter % 41 Table of Contents Net Revenues by Geography Revenues are attributed to the United States and international geographies primarily based upon the country in which the customer is located. The following table presents net revenues by geography for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change United States $ 1,346 $ 1,302 3 % Percentage of net revenues 52 % 51 % International 1,239 1,254 (1) % Percentage of net revenues 48 % 49 % Net revenues (1)(2) $ 2,585 $ 2,556 1 % (1)Net revenues included $8 million of hedging gains for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $10 million of hedging losses during the same period in 2024. (2)Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact of $21 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to a favorable impact of $14 million during the same period in 2024. The effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily attributable to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro and other major currencies. Our Marketplace platforms operate globally, resulting in certain revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound and euro. Year-over-year appreciation or depreciation of the U.S. dollar may have a material impact to our financial results as we have experienced and may continue to experience elevated foreign currency volatility in the future, including as a result of tariffs and related global trade announcements. Through our hedging programs, we actively monitor foreign currency volatility and attempt to mitigate significant movements. As shown in the table above, we generate approximately half of our net revenues internationally. Therefore, we are subject to the risks related to conducting business in foreign countries as discussed in Part I Item 1A: Risk Factors of the 2024 Form 10-K. Key Operating Metrics Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) and take rate are significant factors that we believe affect our net revenues. GMV consists of the total value of all paid transactions between users on our Marketplace platforms during the applicable period inclusive of shipping fees and taxes. We believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of paid transactions that flow through our Marketplace platforms in a given period. FX-Neutral GMV is defined as GMV minus the exchange rate effect, which we calculate by applying prior period foreign currency exchange rates to current year transactional currency amounts. Take rate is defined as net revenues divided by GMV and represents net revenue as a percentage of overall volume on our Marketplace platforms. We believe that take rate provides a useful measure of our ability to monetize volume through services on our Marketplace platforms in a given period. We use take rate to identify key revenue drivers. 42 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenues and our key operating metrics of GMV and take rate for the periods indicated. The following table also presents a reconciliation of FX-Neutral net revenues and FX-Neutral GMV (each as defined above) to our reported net revenues and GMV for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change As Reported (1) Exchange Rate Effect FX-Neutral As Reported As Reported FX-Neutral Net Revenues $ 2,585 $ (21) $ 2,606 $ 2,556 1 % 2 % GMV $ 18,753 $ (239) $ 18,992 $ 18,623 1 % 2 % Take rate 13.78 % 13.72 % 0.06 % (1)Net revenues included $8 million of hedging gains for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $10 million of hedging losses during the same period in 2024. The increase in net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily due to higher GMV and the expansion of promoted listings products, partially offset by changes to fee structure in certain markets. GMV grew for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 as we executed on our strategy across Focus Categories, country-specific investments, and horizontal initiatives. GMV growth was partially offset by pressure in discretionary spending across most of our largest markets primarily resulting from geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility, elevated interest rates, and lower consumer confidence. Focus Categories GMV grew in aggregate, faster than the remainder of our marketplace, primarily driven by Trading Cards, Motors Parts & Accessories (P&A), Luxury goods, Refurbished, and Apparel. In the United States, our strategic investments and partnerships in Collectibles, including Trading Cards, resulted in improved conversion and was a key contributor to growth. In the United Kingdom and Germany, we continued to experience challenging macroeconomic conditions and lower consumer confidence, with offsetting growth in P&A and consumer-to-consumer volume. Cross-border trade was a key driver of International GMV growth, led by exports from Greater China and Japan into our major markets. Cross-border trade was also a significant contributor to growth in Focus Categories, particularly P&A. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues represents costs associated with customer support, site operations and payment processing. Significant components of these costs primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense, bank transaction fees, credit card interchange and assessment fees, authentication costs, shipping costs and indirect tax expenses. The following table presents cost of net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change Cost of net revenues (1)(2) $ 723 $ 700 3 % Percentage of net revenues 28 % 27 % (1)Cost of net revenues were net of immaterial hedging activity for the three months ended March 31, 2025 and 2024, respectively. (2)Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of $5 million on cost of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to an unfavorable impact of $3 million during the same period in 2024. The increase in cost of net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily due to an $18 million increase in depreciation expense due to the prior year benefit related to the change in useful lives of our servers and networking equipment and a $14 million increase in cost of 43 Table of Contents promoted listings products, partially offset by a $10 million decrease in payment processing costs driven by rate improvements. Operating Expenses The following table presents operating expenses for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change Sales and marketing $ 536 $ 541 (1) % Percentage of net revenues 21 % 21 % Product development 362 351 3 % Percentage of net revenues 14 % 14 % General and administrative 261 238 10 % Percentage of net revenues 10 % 9 % Provision for transaction losses 81 91 (11) % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 4 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 6 4 46 % Total operating expenses (1) $ 1,246 $ 1,225 2 % (1)Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of $12 million on operating expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to an unfavorable impact of $4 million during the same period in 2024. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of marketing program costs, employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), certain user coupons and rewards, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Marketing program costs represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising, as well as brand campaigns and buyer/seller communications. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency movements. Product Development Product development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major platform and other product development efforts, including the development and maintenance of our technology platform. Our top technology priorities include improving seller tools and buyer experiences across our Marketplace platforms powered by intelligent computing at scale. The increase in product development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs as we continue to invest in strategic areas such Artificial Intelligence (AI) to make our marketplace more efficient and intuitive. Capitalized internal use and platform development costs were $28 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to $29 million during the same period in 2024. These costs are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. 44 Table of Contents The increase in general and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily due to various individually immaterial items, including restructuring and legal accrual releases during the first quarter of 2024 and increased donations to the eBay foundation. Provision for Transaction Losses Provision for transaction losses consists primarily of losses resulting from our buyer protection programs, chargebacks for unauthorized credit card use, and merchant related chargebacks due to non-delivery of goods or services. We expect our provision for transaction losses to fluctuate depending on many factors, including changes to our protection programs and macroeconomic conditions. The decrease in provision for transaction losses for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily due to favorable fluctuations in buyer and seller fraud and recovery rates. Loss on equity investments and warrant, net Loss on equity investments and warrant, net primarily consists of gains and losses related to our various types of equity investments, including our equity investments in Adevinta ASA (Adevinta) and Gmarket Global LLC (Gmarket), and gains and losses due to changes in fair value of the warrant received from Adyen N.V. (Adyen). The following table presents Loss on equity investments and warrant, net for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in Adevinta $ $ (234) ** Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in Gmarket (6) ** Change in fair value of warrant 149 ** Loss on other investments (2) (6) (67) % Total loss on equity investments and warrant, net $ (2) $ (97) (98) % Percentage of net revenues 0 % (4) % ** Not meaningful The change in Loss on equity investments and warrant, net for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily driven by the changes in fair value of our equity investments and the warrant. Refer to Note 5 Investments for further details about our equity investments and Note 6 Derivative Instruments for further details about the warrant. 45 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Interest Income and Other, Net Interest expense primarily consists of interest charges on amounts borrowed, commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, as applicable. Interest income and other, net primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents, investments and customer accounts, gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions and transaction costs of acquisitions. The following table presents interest expense and interest income and other, net for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 % Change Interest expense $ (61) $ (66) (8) % Percentage of net revenues (2) % (3) % Interest income $ 77 $ 61 26 % Foreign exchange and other 4 7 (43) % Total interest income and other, net $ 81 $ 68 19 % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 3 % Interest expense decreased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 primarily due to a lower average notional amount of outstanding debt. Interest income increased for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 primarily due to a higher average notional amount of fixed-income investments. Income Tax Provision The following table presents provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 Income tax provision $ 129 $ 97 Effective tax rate 20.4 % 18.1 % The increase in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the same period in 2024 was primarily due to a California court ruling related to apportionment of dividends during the first quarter of 2024, partially offset by an increase of excess benefits on stock-based compensation. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although there are inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, it is generally impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. However, we expect several tax examinations to close within the next 12 months. See Note 13 Income Taxes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on estimated settlements within the next 12 months. 46 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2025 2024 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Continuing operating activities $ 787 $ 615 Continuing investing activities 1,312 250 Continuing financing activities (1,248) (686) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash 19 (11) Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 870 $ 168 Continuing Operating Activities Our operating cash flows arise primarily from cash received from our customers on our Marketplace platforms offset by cash payments for sales and marketing, employee compensation and payment processing expenses. Cash provided by continuing operating activities of $787 million for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared $615 million for the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily attributable to working capital movements. Continuing Investing Activities Cash provided by continuing investing activities of $1.3 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to proceeds of $4.6 billion from the maturities of investments, partially offset by cash paid for investments of $3.0 billion and property and equipment of $143 million. Continuing Financing Activities Cash used in continuing financing activities of $1.2 billion for the three months ended March 31, 2025 was primarily attributable to the repayment of the $800 million aggregate principal amount of our previously outstanding 1.900% senior notes due 2025, $615 million paid to repurchase common stock, the $441 million repayment of commercial paper, and $134 million paid in cash dividends, partially offset by proceeds of $568 million from the issuance of commercial paper. The positive effect of exchange rate movements on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash for the three months ended March 31, 2025 compared to the 2024 was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of March 31, 2025 and December 31, 2024, we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, in an aggregate amount of $6.2 billion and $7.2 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include cash held on behalf of customers related to marketplace activity of $997 million and $763 million, respectively, which are recognized separately within Customer accounts and funds receivable with a corresponding liability within Customer accounts and funds payable in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. These amounts also do not include restricted cash related to safeguarding customer funds, our global sabbatical program, and other compensation arrangements held in escrow totaling $158 million and $90 million, respectively. We believe these assets together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to satisfy our material cash requirements over the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. 47 Table of Contents Geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility, elevated interest rates, increased tariff rates and unpredictable global trade policy developments and global economic uncertainty have caused material disruptions in both the United States and international financial markets and economies and are uncertain in duration. The impact of these events has increased, and may continue to increase, our borrowing costs and other costs of capital and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The future impact of these events cannot be predicted with certainty and we cannot assure that we will have access to external financing at times and on terms we consider acceptable, or at all, or that we will not experience other liquidity issues going forward. We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments for general operating purposes. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. The following sections summarizes our fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Senior Notes In March 2025, we repaid the $800 million aggregate principal amount of our previously outstanding 1.900% senior notes due 2025 on the date of maturity. As of March 31, 2025, we had fixed-rate senior notes outstanding with an aggregate principal amount of $6.2 billion, with $425 million payable within 12 months. The net proceeds from the issuances of these senior notes are used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, capital expenditures, share repurchases, repayment of indebtedness and possible acquisitions. Commercial Paper We have a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes in an aggregate principal amount at maturity of up to $1.5 billion outstanding at any time with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we repaid the $450 million aggregate principal amount of the previously outstanding commercial paper notes on the dates of maturity and issued $575 million aggregate principal amount of commercial paper notes, of which, $360 million aggregate principal amount had original maturities less than 90 days and $215 million aggregate principal amount had original maturities greater than 90 days. As of March 31, 2025, we had $575 million aggregate principal amount of commercial paper notes outstanding with a weighted average interest rate of 4.61% per annum, and a weighted average remaining term of 73 days. Credit Agreement We have a credit agreement that provides for an unsecured $2.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility. We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase the commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $1.0 billion. Funds borrowed under the credit agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and will bear interest at either (i) a customary forward-looking term rate based on the secured overnight financing rate published by CME Group for the relevant interest period plus an adjustment of 0.1% or (ii) a customary base rate formula, plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from 0% to 0.375%. The covenants of the credit agreement are discussed in Note 9 Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. As of March 31, 2025, we had $575 million aggregate principal amount of commercial paper notes outstanding; therefore, $1.4 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. Income Taxes The timing of the resolution and/or closure of audits is highly uncertain. Given the number of years remaining subject to examination and the number of matters being examined, we are unable to estimate the full range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits. We expect the gross amount of unrecognized tax benefits to be reduced within the next 12 months by at least $170 million. 48 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2025, our assets classified as cash and cash equivalents as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments included assets held in certain of our foreign operations totaling $1.9 billion. As we repatriate these funds to the United States, we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes on those amounts during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have accrued deferred taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the United States. For additional details related to our income taxes, please see Income Tax Provision in our Results of Operations above and Note 13 Income Taxes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Stock Repurchases Our stock repurchase programs are intended to programmatically offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock to reduce our outstanding share count and return value to stockholders. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. We expect to continue making opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. For the three months ended March 31, 2025, we repurchased $625 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. As of March 31, 2025, a total of $2.7 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock. See Note 11 Stockholders Equity to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information about our stock repurchase program. Dividends During the three months ended March 31, 2025, we paid a total of $134 million in cash dividends compared to $139 million paid during the same period in 2024. In April 2025, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.29 per share of common stock to be paid on June 13, 2025 to stockholders of record as of May 30, 2025. Other Capital Resource Requirements We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, including, without limitation, as a result of the impact of geopolitical events, inflationary pressure and foreign exchange rate volatility. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions. We have entered into various indemnification agreements and, in the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these various indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recognized in our consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information about our indemnification provisions. 49 Table of Contents