ITEM 2: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report. This section of this Form 10-Q generally discusses items relating to the three-month periods ended March 31, 2024 and 2023 and quarter-to-quarter comparisons between the two periods. OVERVIEW Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires, when we refer to we, our, us, eBay or the Company in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we mean eBay Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Business eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader that connects people and builds communities to create economic opportunity for all. Our technology empowers millions of buyers and sellers in more than 190 markets around the world, providing everyone the opportunity to grow and thrive. Our Marketplace platforms, including our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its localized counterparts, our off-platform businesses in Japan and the United States, and our suite of mobile apps, together, create one of the world's largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. In 2023 and extending into the first quarter of 2024, we experienced reduced traffic in most markets resulting from geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility, elevated interest rates and lower consumer confidence, which negatively impacted discretionary consumer spending. These trends are uncertain in duration and are expected to continue in 2024. FX-Neutral Presentation We present foreign exchange neutral (FX-Neutral) net revenues to supplement our results of operations presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and to enhance investors understanding of our global business performance by excluding the positive or negative year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on reported net revenues. We define FX-Neutral net revenues as GAAP net revenues minus the exchange rate effect, which we calculate by applying prior period foreign currency exchange rates to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity. We believe presenting FX-Neutral net revenues provides useful information to both management and investors by isolating the effects of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations that may not be indicative of our core operating results. In addition, because we have historically reported certain FX-Neutral results to investors, we believe that the inclusion of these FX-Neutral measures provides consistency in our financial reporting. FX-Neutral net revenues are non-GAAP financial measures that are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles and may be calculated differently than other FX-Neutral, constant currency or similarly titled measures used by other companies. FX-Neutral net revenues are not presented as an alternative to GAAP net revenues and should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with GAAP net revenues. 40 Table of Contents Quarter Highlights Net revenues increased 2% to $2,556 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. FX-Neutral net revenues (as defined above) increased 2% during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. Operating margin increased to 24.7% for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to 22.2% for the same period in 2023. We generated cash flow from continuing operating activities of $615 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $841 million in the same period in 2023. We recorded $97 million of aggregate losses in gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net on our condensed consolidated statement of income during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $198 million of aggregate gains recorded during the same period in 2023. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we made cash payments of $453 million related to the purchase of common stock and $139 million in dividends. In April 2024, our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.27 per share of common stock to be paid on June 14, 2024 to stockholders of record as of May 31, 2024. 41 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have one reportable segment to reflect the way management and our chief operating decision maker review and assess performance of the business. Our reportable segment is Marketplace, which includes our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com and its localized counterparts, our off-platform businesses in Japan and the United States, and our suite of mobile apps. The accounting policies of our segment are the same as those described in Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Net Revenues Net revenues primarily include final value fees, feature fees, fees to promote listings, payment services fees, listing fees, and store subscription fees from sellers on our platforms. Our net revenues also include revenues from the sale of advertisements, revenue sharing arrangements and shipping fees. Our net revenues are reduced by incentives, including discounts, coupons and rewards, provided to our customers. The following table presents net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Net revenues $ 2,556 $ 2,510 2 % Seasonality We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to trend with general consumer buying patterns and expect that these trends will continue. Seasonal trends in net revenues may be influenced by macroeconomic conditions as well as the introduction and scaling of new products. The following table presents our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly movements of these net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 2022 Net revenues $ 2,483 $ 2,422 $ 2,380 $ 2,510 % change from prior quarter (5) % (2) % (2) % 5 % 2023 Net revenues $ 2,510 $ 2,540 $ 2,500 $ 2,562 % change from prior quarter % 1 % (2) % 2 % 2024 Net revenues $ 2,556 $ $ $ % change from prior quarter 0 % 42 Table of Contents Net Revenues by Geography Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies primarily based upon the country in which the customer is located. The following table presents net revenues by geography for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change U.S. $ 1,302 $ 1,261 3 % Percentage of net revenues 51 % 50 % International 1,254 1,249 0 % Percentage of net revenues 49 % 50 % Total net revenues (1)(2) $ 2,556 $ 2,510 2 % (1)Net revenues included $10 million of hedging losses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $29 million of hedging gains during the same period in 2023. (2)Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of $14 million on net revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to an unfavorable impact of $45 million during the same period in 2023. The effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 was primarily attributable to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound and other major currencies. Our commerce platforms operate globally, resulting in certain revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound and euro. Year-over-year appreciation or depreciation of the U.S. dollar may have a material impact to our financial results. We experienced elevated foreign currency volatility which we expect to continue throughout 2024. Through our hedging programs, we actively monitor foreign currency volatility and attempt to mitigate significant risk. As shown in the table above, we generate approximately half of our net revenues internationally. Therefore, we are subject to the risks related to conducting business in foreign countries as discussed in Part I - Item 1A: Risk Factors of the 2023 Form 10-K. Key Operating Metrics Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) and take rate are significant factors that we believe affect our net revenues. GMV consists of the total value of all paid transactions between users on our platforms during the applicable period inclusive of shipping fees and taxes. Despite GMVs divergence from revenue, we still believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of paid transactions that flow through our platforms in a given period. FX-Neutral GMV is defined as GMV minus the exchange rate effect, which we calculate by applying prior period foreign currency exchange rates to current year transactional currency amounts. Take rate is defined as net revenues divided by GMV and represents net revenues as a percentage of overall volume on our platforms. We believe that take rate provides a useful measure of our ability to monetize volume through marketplace services on our platforms in a given period. We use take rate to identify key revenue drivers on our marketplace. 43 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenues and our key operating metrics of GMV and take rate for the periods indicated. The following table also presents a reconciliation of FX-Neutral net revenues and FX-Neutral GMV (each as defined above) to our reported net revenues and GMV for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change As Reported (1) Exchange Rate Effect FX-Neutral As Reported As Reported FX-Neutral Net Revenues $ 2,556 $ 14 $ 2,542 $ 2,510 2 % 2 % GMV $ 18,623 $ 172 $ 18,451 $ 18,410 1 % % Take rate 13.72 % 13.63 % 0.09 % (1)Net revenues included $10 million of hedging losses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $29 million of hedging gains during the same period in 2023. Net revenues increased primarily due to the investment in focus categories and a higher take rate driven by the expansion of promoted listings, eBay International Shipping and payment services. The increase in net revenues was partially offset by a reduction in traffic in most markets resulting from geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility, elevated interest rates and lower consumer confidence, which negatively impacted discretionary consumer spending during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. Net revenues continued to outpace GMV during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 primarily due to the benefit of a higher take rate. While we expect this trend to continue to a lesser extent in 2024, we still believe GMV provides a useful measure of overall volume of paid transactions that flow through the platform in a given period. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues represents costs associated with customer support, site operations and payment processing. Significant components of these costs primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense, bank transaction fees, credit card interchange and assessment fees, authentication costs, shipping costs and digital services tax. The following table presents cost of net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Cost of net revenues (1)(2) $ 700 $ 700 % Percentage of net revenues 27 % 28 % (1)Cost of net revenues were net of immaterial hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. (2)Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact of $3 million on cost of net revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to a favorable impact of $12 million during the same period in 2023. Cost of net revenues was flat during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 with a $26 million increase related to eBay International Shipping and an $11 million increase in cost of ads products, offset by a $26 million decrease due to the change in our estimate of the useful lives for our servers and networking equipment and an $11 million decrease in payment processing costs. 44 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents operating expenses for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Sales and marketing $ 541 $ 511 6 % Percentage of net revenues 21 % 20 % Product development 351 352 % Percentage of net revenues 14 % 14 % General and administrative 238 297 (20) % Percentage of net revenues 9 % 12 % Provision for transaction losses 91 84 8 % Percentage of net revenues 4 % 3 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 4 8 (50) % Total operating expenses (1)(2) $ 1,225 $ 1,252 (2) % (1)Operating expenses were net of immaterial hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. (2)Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact of $4 million on operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to a favorable impact of $30 million during the same period in 2023. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and marketing program costs (both online and offline), employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), certain user coupons and rewards, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising primarily includes brand campaigns and buyer/seller communications. The increase in sales and marketing expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 was primarily due to a $38 million increase in advertising and marketing program costs (both online and offline), partially offset by a $14 million decrease in employee related costs. Product Development Product development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major platform and other product development efforts, including the development and maintenance of our technology platform. Our top technology priorities include the implementation of our strategic plan including payment intermediation capabilities, improved seller tools and buyer experiences. Product development expenses were flat during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. We have continued to innovate and modernize the shopping experience across our platforms powered by intelligent computing at scale. Capitalized internal use and platform development costs were $29 million during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to $31 million during the same period in 2023. These costs are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation (including stock-based compensation), contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. 45 Table of Contents The decrease in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 was primarily due to a $51 million decrease in restructuring costs. See Note 15 Restructuring to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on the restructuring. Provision for Transaction Losses Provision for transaction losses primarily consists of transaction loss expense associated with our buyer protection programs, losses from our managed payments services, fraud and bad debt expense. We expect our provision for transaction losses to fluctuate depending on many factors, including changes to our protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. The increase in provision for transaction losses during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 was primarily due to a $6 million increase related to a slight increase in buyer and seller fraud rates. Gain (Loss) on Equity Investments and Warrant, Net Gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net primarily consists of gains and losses related to our various types of equity investments, including our equity investments in Adevinta, Gmarket and KakaoBank, and gains and losses due to changes in fair value of the warrant received from Adyen. The following table presents gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in Adevinta $ (234) $ 174 234 % Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in Gmarket (6) (11) (45) % Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in KakaoBank (3) ** Change in fair value of warrant 149 38 292 % Gain (loss) on other investments (6) ** Total gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net $ (97) $ 198 (149) % Percentage of net revenues (4) % 8 % ** Not meaningful The change in gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 was primarily driven by the change in the fair value of our equity investments in Adevinta and the warrant. 46 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Interest Income and Other, Net Interest expense primarily consists of interest charges on amounts borrowed, commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, if any. Interest income and other, net primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, gains and losses on foreign exchange transactions and gains and losses on acquisitions or disposals. The following table presents interest expense and interest income and other, net for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 % Change Interest expense $ (66) $ (68) (3) % Percentage of net revenues (3) % (3) % Interest income $ 61 $ 42 45 % Foreign exchange and other 7 ** Total interest income and other, net $ 68 $ 42 62 % Percentage of net revenues 3 % 2 % ** Not meaningful Interest expense decreased primarily due to a lower average notional amount of outstanding debt during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. Interest income increased primarily due to higher yields on interest bearing instruments. We expect this trend to continue to a lesser extent in 2024. Income Tax Provision The following table presents provision for income taxes for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 Income tax provision $ 97 $ 161 Effective tax rate 18.1 % 22.1 % The decrease in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023 was primarily due to a recent California court ruling related to apportionment of dividends. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although there are inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, it is generally impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. However, we expect several tax examinations to close within the next twelve months. See Note 13 Income Taxes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on estimated settlements within the next twelve months. 47 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2024 2023 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Continuing operating activities $ 615 $ 841 Continuing investing activities 250 701 Continuing financing activities (686) (1,388) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (11) 5 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 168 $ 159 Continuing Operating Activities Our operating cash flows arise primarily from cash received from our customers on our platforms offset by cash payments for sales and marketing, employee compensation and payment processing expenses. Cash provided by continuing operating activities of $615 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to cash provided by continuing operating activities of $841 million in the three months ended March 31, 2023 was primarily attributable to working capital movements and changes in non-cash items during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the same period in 2023. Continuing Investing Activities Cash provided by continuing investing activities of $250 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily attributable to proceeds of $3.7 billion from the maturities and sales of investments, partially offset by cash paid for investments of $3.3 billion and property and equipment of $143 million. The largely offsetting effects of purchases of investments and maturities and sale of investments results from the management of our investments. As our immediate cash needs change, purchase and sale activity will fluctuate. Continuing Financing Activities Cash used in continuing financing activities of $686 million in the three months ended March 31, 2024 was primarily attributable to cash paid to repurchase $453 million of common stock and $139 million paid in cash dividends. The negative effect of exchange rate movements on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies during the three months ended March 31, 2024 compared to the 2023 year-end rate. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of March 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, in an aggregate amount of $4.9 billion and $5.1 billion, respectively. These amounts do not include cash held on behalf of customers related to marketplace activity of $448 million and $481 million, respectively, which are recorded separately within customer accounts and funds receivable with a corresponding liability within customer accounts and funds payable in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. These amounts also do not include restricted cash held for purposes of safeguarding customer funds of $83 million and $27 million, respectively. We believe these assets together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to satisfy our material cash requirements over the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. 48 Table of Contents However, geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility, elevated interest rates and global economic uncertainty have caused material disruptions in both U.S. and international financial markets and economies and are uncertain in duration. The impact of these events has increased, and may continue to increase, our borrowing costs and other costs of capital and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The future impact of these events cannot be predicted with certainty and we cannot assure that we will have access to external financing at times and on terms we consider acceptable, or at all, or that we will not experience other liquidity issues going forward. We have certain fixed contractual obligations and commitments that include future estimated payments for general operating purposes. Changes in our business needs, contractual cancellation provisions, fluctuating interest rates, and other factors may result in actual payments differing from the estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and amounts of these payments. The following sections summarizes our fixed contractual obligations and commitments. Senior Notes In January 2023, we redeemed the $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of the floating rate and 2.750% senior notes due 2023. Total cash consideration paid was $1.2 billion, as the redemption price was equal to 100% of the principal amount. In addition, we paid accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount. As of March 31, 2024, we had fixed-rate senior notes outstanding for an aggregate principal amount of $7.8 billion, with $1,550 million payable within 12 months. The net proceeds from the issuances of these senior notes are used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, capital expenditures, share repurchases, repayment of indebtedness and possible acquisitions. Commercial Paper We have a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes in an aggregate principal amount at maturity of up to $1.5 billion outstanding at any time with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. As of March 31, 2024, there were no commercial paper notes outstanding. Credit Agreement In March 2020, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for an unsecured $2 billion five-year credit facility (the Prior Credit Agreement). In January 2024, we terminated the Prior Credit Agreement and entered into a new credit agreement (the Credit Agreement) that provides for an unsecured $2.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility. We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase the commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $1.0 billion. Funds borrowed under the Credit Agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes and will bear interest at either (i) a customary forward-looking term rate based on the secured overnight financing rate published by CME Group for the relevant interest period plus an adjustment of 0.1% or (ii) a customary base rate formula, plus a margin (based on our public debt ratings) ranging from 0% to 0.375%. The covenants of the Credit Agreement are discussed in Note 8 Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. As of March 31, 2024, no borrowings were outstanding under our $2 billion Credit Agreement. Income Taxes We are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits of $464 million included in other liabilities on our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2024. The timing of the resolution and/or closure of audits is highly uncertain, and it is reasonably possible that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change in the next 12 months. However, given the number of years remaining subject to examination and the number of matters being examined, we are unable to estimate the full range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits. 49 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2024, our assets classified as cash and cash equivalents as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments included assets held in certain of our foreign operations totaling approximately $2.0 billion. As we repatriate these funds to the United States, we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes on those amounts during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have accrued deferred taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the United States. For additional details related to our income taxes, please see Income Tax Provision in our Results of Operations above and Note 13 Income Taxes to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Stock Repurchases Our stock repurchase programs are intended to programmatically offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock to reduce our outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. We expect to continue making opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. In February 2024, our Board authorized an incremental $2.0 billion under our stock repurchase program in addition to the $4.0 billion previously authorized in 2022. The stock repurchase program has no expiration from the date of authorization. During the three months ended March 31, 2024, we repurchased approximately $499 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. As of March 31, 2024, a total of approximately $2.9 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. See Note 11 Stockholders Equity to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information about our stock repurchase programs. Dividends The Company paid a total of $139 million and $134 million in cash dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. In April 2024, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.27 per share of common stock to be paid on June 14, 2024 to stockholders of record as of May 31, 2024. Other Capital Resource Requirements We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, including, without limitation, as a result of the impact of geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, lower consumer spending and foreign exchange rate volatility. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions. We have entered into various indemnification agreements and, in the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these various indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively. See Note 10 Commitments and Contingencies to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information about our indemnification provisions. 50 Table of Contents