Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part II Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in our condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. When we refer to we, our, us or eBay in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. Overview eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader, including eBay, Stubhub and eBay Classifieds platforms. On July 17, 2015, we completed the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal Holdings, Inc. ("PayPal") to our stockholders ("Distribution"), pursuant to which PayPal became an independent company. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, PayPal's financial results for periods prior to the Distribution have been reflected in our condensed consolidated statement of income, retrospectively, as discontinued operations. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations in the prior year are classified as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement entered into between us and PayPal on June 26, 2015, upon Distribution, assets related to the PayPal business were transferred to, and liabilities related to the PayPal business were retained or assumed by, PayPal. During the second quarter of 2015, our Board of Directors (Board) approved a plan to sell the businesses underlying our Enterprise segment ("Enterprise"). As a result, the Enterprise financial results were reflected in our condensed consolidated statement of income, retrospectively, as discontinued operations beginning in the second quarter of 2015. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations are classified as held for sale in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. On July 16, 2015, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Enterprise and, subject to customary closing conditions, we expect to close this transaction in the fourth quarter of 2015. In January 2015, at a regular meeting of our Board, our Board approved a plan to implement a strategic reduction of our existing global workforce. The reduction was completed in the first half of 2015 and is expected to generate annual savings of more than $150 million, primarily impacting sales and marketing and product development expenses. The savings in these line items are expected to be offset by additional expenses as we reinvest back into these areas of the business to drive additional growth. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the Distribution and pending sale of Enterprise. These costs relate primarily to third-party advisory and consulting services, retention payments to certain employees, incremental stock-based compensation and other costs directly related to the Distribution and the pending sale of Enterprise. Costs related to employees for retention or stock-based compensation are classified on a basis consistent with their regular compensation charges and included within cost of net revenues, sales and marketing, product development or general and administrative in our condensed consolidated statement of income as applicable. Costs other than those paid to employees are included within general and 32 administrative in our condensed consolidated statement of income. The majority of these costs are reflected in our condensed consolidated statement of income as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Our commerce platforms operate globally, resulting in certain revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, British pound, Korean won and Australian dollar, subjecting us to foreign currency risk which may adversely impact our financial results. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. The foreign exchange (FX) neutral, or constant currency, net revenue amount is a non-GAAP financial measure and is not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). The information in this section should be read in connection with the information in "Non-GAAP Measure of Financial Performance." Because we generated a majority of our net revenues internationally, including the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries as discussed under "Part II - Item 1A - Risk Factors." The following table sets forth a reconciliation of FX-Neutral GMV (as defined below) and FX-Neutral net revenues to our reported GMV and net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 Three Months Ended September 30, 2014 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) FX-Neutral (2) As Reported As Reported Percent Change FX-Neutral Percent Change (In millions) GMV (3) $ 19,601 $ (1,539 ) $ 21,140 $ 20,034 (2 )% 6 % Net revenues $ 2,099 $ (159 ) $ 2,258 $ 2,150 (2 )% 5 % Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2014 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1) FX-Neutral (2) As Reported As Reported Percent Change FX-Neutral Percent Change (In millions) GMV (3) $ 59,813 $ (4,460 ) $ 64,273 $ 60,959 (2 )% 5 % Net revenues $ 6,270 $ (481 ) $ 6,751 $ 6,467 (3 )% 4 % (1) Year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. (2) For GMV, the amount that would have occurred had foreign currency exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the same period in the prior year. For net revenues, the non-GAAP financial measure that would have occurred had foreign currency exchange rates in the reported period been the same as those in effect in the same period in the prior year. (3) We define Gross Merchandise Volume or GMV as the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on our platforms (excluding eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com) during the applicable period regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction; excludes vehicles and real estate gross merchandise volume. We believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of closed transactions that flow through our platforms in a given period, notwithstanding the inclusion in GMV of closed transactions that are not ultimately consummated. The effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Euro, the British pound, and the Korean won. 33 Results of Operations Summary of Net Revenues We generate two types of net revenues: net transaction revenues and marketing services and other revenues. Our net transaction revenues are derived principally from listing fees, final value fees (which are fees payable on transactions closed on our platforms), and other service fees. Our marketing services and other revenues are derived principally from the sale of advertisements, revenue sharing arrangements, classifieds fees, marketing service fees and lead referral fees. The following table sets forth the breakdown of net revenues by type and geography for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 (In millions) Net Revenues by Type: Net transaction revenues $ 1,659 $ 1,703 $ 5,012 $ 5,144 Marketing services and other revenues 440 447 1,258 1,323 Total net revenues $ 2,099 $ 2,150 $ 6,270 $ 6,467 Net Revenues by Geography: U.S. $ 901 $ 871 $ 2,634 $ 2,572 International 1,198 1,279 3,636 3,895 Total net revenues $ 2,099 $ 2,150 $ 6,270 $ 6,467 Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies based primarily upon the country in which the seller, website that displays advertising, other service provider, or customer, as the case may be, is located. The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, certain key operating metrics that we believe are significant factors affecting our net revenues: Three Months Ended September 30, Percent Nine Months Ended September 30, Percent 2015 2014 Change 2015 2014 Change (In millions, except percentage changes) Supplemental Operating Data: (1) GMV $ 19,601 $ 20,034 (2 )% $ 59,813 $ 60,959 (2 )% Transaction Take Rate (2) 8.46 % 8.50 % (0.04 )% 8.38 % 8.44 % (0.06 )% (1) eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com are not included in these metrics. (2) Total net transaction revenues divided by Gross Merchandise Volume. 34 Seasonality The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly changes in these net revenues: Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 (In millions, except percentage changes) 2014 Net revenues $ 2,149 $ 2,168 $ 2,150 $ 2,323 Percent change from prior quarter (6 )% 1 % (1 )% 8 % 2015 Net revenues $ 2,061 $ 2,110 $ 2,099 Percent change from prior quarter (11 )% 2 % (1 )% % We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to mirror general consumer buying patterns. We expect that these trends will continue. Net Transaction Revenues Net transaction revenues decreased $44 million , or 3% , while GMV decreased 2% during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in net transaction revenues and GMV was driven primarily by a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, FX-Neutral GMV and FX-Neutral net revenue (which primarily consists of net transaction revenue) increased 6% and 5% , respectively, during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year. The FX-Neutral GMV increase of 6% was driven primarily by an increase internationally and to a lesser extent, the U.S. The transaction take rate was lower during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year due to a shift in geographical and vertical mix, as well as an increase in our buyer and seller incentives, which are accounted for as a reduction of revenue. Net transaction revenues decreased $132 million , or 3% , while GMV decreased 2% during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in net transaction revenues and GMV was driven primarily by a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, FX-Neutral GMV and FX-Neutral net revenue (which primarily consists of net transaction revenue) increased 5% and 4% , respectively, during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year. The FX-Neutral GMV increase of 5% was driven primarily by an increase internationally and to a lesser extent, the U.S. The transaction take rate was lower during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year due to a shift in geographical and vertical mix, as well as an increase in our buyer and seller incentives, which are accounted for as a reduction of revenue. Net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $904 million and $2.8 billion during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, representing 54% and 56% of total net transaction revenues during both those respective periods. Net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $963 million and $3.0 billion during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 , respectively, representing 57% and 58% of total net transaction revenues during those respective periods. Net transaction revenues earned internationally as a percentage of total net transaction revenue decreased during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily due to a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Marketing Services and Other Revenues Marketing services and other revenues decreased $7 million , or 2% , during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease was driven primarily by a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, marketing services and other revenues increased by a greater percentage than the FX-Neutral net revenue increase of 5% during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year, due primarily to a higher portion of foreign currency denominated revenues than net transaction revenues. The increase was driven primarily by increased revenue in local currencies from our classifieds platforms and fees earned for referral services. The increase in fees earned for referral services 35 consist primarily of fees for customers acquired and incentives for the usage of PayPal products on certain eBay platforms which were not included in marketing services and other revenues prior to the Distribution. Marketing services and other revenues decreased $65 million , or 5% , during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease was driven primarily by a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Excluding the impact of foreign currency movements, marketing services and other revenues increased by a greater percentage than the FX-Neutral net revenue increase of 4% during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year, due primarily to a higher portion of foreign currency denominated revenues than net transaction revenues. The increase was driven primarily by increased revenue in local currencies from our classifieds platforms and fees earned for referral services. The increase in fees earned for referral services consist primarily of fees for customers acquired and incentives for the usage of PayPal products on certain eBay platforms which were not included in marketing services and other revenues prior to the Distribution. Summary of Cost of Net Revenues The following table summarizes changes in cost of net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Change from 2014 to 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, Change from 2014 to 2015 2015 2014 in Dollars in % 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentages) Cost of net revenues $ 433 $ 413 $ 20 5 % $ 1,278 $ 1,221 $ 57 5 % As a percentage of net revenues 20.6 % 19.2 % 20.4 % 18.9 % Cost of net revenues consists primarily of costs associated with customer support, site operations, and payment processing. Significant components of these costs include employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense, bank transaction fees, and credit card interchange and assessment fees. For the three months ended September 30, 2015, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted cost of net revenues by $22 million (inclusive of a positive impact of approximately $7 million from hedging activities). For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted cost of net revenues by $62 million (inclusive of a positive impact of approximately $18 million from hedging activities). Cost of net revenues increased $20 million , or 5% , during the three months ended September 30, 2015 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to continued investment in our site operations and data centers and an increase in transaction fees for payment services offset by a favorable impact due to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. The increase in transaction fees for payment services consists primarily of the impact of transaction fees for payment services provided by PayPal which were not included in cost of net revenues prior to the Distribution. Cost of net revenues as a percentage of net revenues was 20.6% and 19.2% respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Cost of net revenues increased $57 million , or 5% , during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to continued investment in our site operations and data centers and an increase in transaction fees for payment services offset by a favorable impact due to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. The increase in transaction fees for payment services consists primarily of the impact of transaction fees for payment services provided by PayPal which were not included in cost of net revenues prior to the Distribution. Cost of net revenues as a percentage of net revenues was 20.4% and 18.9% , respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . 36 Summary of Operating Expenses, Non-Operating Items and Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes changes in operating expenses, non-operating items and provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Change from 2014 to 2015 Nine Months Ended September 30, Change from 2014 to 2015 2015 2014 in Dollars in % 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentage changes) Sales and marketing $ 565 $ 624 $ (59 ) (9 )% $ 1,672 $ 1,815 $ (143 ) (8 )% Product development 241 246 (5 ) (2 )% 694 747 (53 ) (7 )% General and administrative 207 203 4 2 % 862 678 184 27 % Provision for transaction losses 65 58 7 12 % 199 196 3 2 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 10 10 % 30 65 (35 ) (54 )% Interest and other, net 87 17 70 412 % 221 32 189 591 % Provision for income taxes (120 ) (104 ) (16 ) 15 % (332 ) (3,371 ) 3,039 (90 )% The following table summarizes operating expenses, non-operating items and provision for income taxes as a percentage of net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sales and marketing 27 % 29 % 27 % 28 % Product development 11 % 11 % 11 % 12 % General and administrative 10 % 9 % 14 % 10 % Provision for transaction losses 3 % 3 % 3 % 3 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets % % % 1 % Interest and other, net 4 % 1 % 4 % % Provision for income taxes 6 % 5 % 5 % 52 % For the three months ended September 30, 2015, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted operating expenses by $53 million (inclusive of a positive impact of approximately $12 million from hedging activities). For the nine months ended September 30, 2015, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted operating expenses by $156 million (inclusive of a positive impact of approximately $33 million from hedging activities). Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising costs and marketing programs (both online and offline), employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising includes primarily brand campaigns and buyer/seller communications. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $59 million , or 9% , during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to the impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar, a decrease in marketing program costs due in part to a shift in certain buyer and seller incentives (for which associated expenses are recorded as a reduction in revenue instead of sales and marketing expense) and employee-related savings from our global workforce reduction. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of net revenues was 27% and 29% , respectively, for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Sales and marketing expenses decreased $143 million , or 8% , during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to the impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar, a decrease in marketing program costs due in part to a shift in certain buyer and seller incentives (for which associated expenses are recorded as a reduction in revenue instead of sales and 37 marketing expense) and employee-related savings from our global workforce reduction. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of net revenues was 27% and 28% , respectively, for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Product Development Product development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major platforms and other product development efforts, including the development of our platform architecture, migration of certain platforms, and seller tools. Our top technology priorities include structured data, multi-screen capabilities, improved seller tools and buyer experiences. Capitalized internal use and website development costs were $7 million and $32 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to $11 million and $27 million in the three and nine months ended September 30, 2014 and are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. Product development expenses decreased $5 million , or 2% , during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to the impact from foreign currency movements and hedging relative to the U.S. dollar. Product development expenses as a percentage of net revenues were 11% for both the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . Product development expenses decreased $53 million , or 7% , during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to the impact from foreign currency movements and hedging relative to the U.S. dollar. Product development expenses as a percentage of net revenues were 11% and 12% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. General and administrative expenses increased $4 million , or 2% , during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues were 10% and 9% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. General and administrative expenses increased $184 million , or 27% , during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to restructuring costs related to our global workforce reduction, costs related to the Distribution (as discussed in Overview above) and expenses related to craigslist, Inc. litigation proceedings. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues were 14% and 10% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Provision for Transaction Losses Provision for transaction losses consists primarily of transaction loss expense associated with our customer protection programs, fraud and chargebacks; and bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance. We expect our provision for transaction losses to fluctuate depending on many factors, including changes to our customer protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. Provision for transaction losses increased $7 million and $3 million , or 12% and 2% , during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2015 , respectively, compared to the same periods of the prior year due to higher customer protection program costs, partially offset by a decrease in bad debt expense. Provision for transaction losses as a percentage of net revenues was 3% for both the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 , and 3% for both the nine months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014 . 38 Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets From time to time we have purchased, and we expect to continue to purchase, assets and businesses. These purchase transactions generally result in the creation of acquired intangible assets with finite lives and lead to a corresponding increase in our amortization expense in periods subsequent to acquisition. We amortize intangible assets over the period of estimated benefit, using the straight-line method and estimated useful lives ranging from one to six years. Amortization of acquired intangible assets is also impacted by our sales of assets and businesses and timing of acquired intangible assets becoming fully amortized. See "Note 4 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Amortization of acquired intangible assets was flat during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. Amortization of acquired intangible asset decreased by $35 million , or 54% , during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2014. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, our portion of operating results from investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, investment gain/loss on acquisitions or disposals and interest expense, consisting of interest charges on any amounts borrowed and commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, if any. Interest and other, net increased $70 million during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in interest and other, net was due primarily to a gain on sale of investments partially offset by a decrease in interest income due to a lower overall cash, short-term investments and long-term investments balances after the Distribution. Interest and other, net increased $189 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in interest and other, net was due primarily to a gain on sale of investments partially offset by an increase in interest expense due to the issuance of debt securities in July 2014 and a decrease in interest income due to a lower overall cash, short-term investments and long-term investments balances after the Distribution. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 18% for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to 17% for the same period in the prior year. The increase in our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year was primarily related to a shift in the geographic mix of our revenues and costs and a gain on sale of investments. Our effective tax rate was 19% for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to 190% for the same period in the prior year. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year was due primarily to a first quarter 2014 accrual of approximately $3.0 billion of U.S. income and applicable foreign withholding taxes on $9.0 billion of undistributed foreign earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries for 2013 and prior years. From time to time, we engage in certain intercompany transactions and legal entity restructurings. We consider many factors when evaluating these transactions, including the alignment of our corporate structure with our organizational objectives and the operational and tax efficiency of our corporate structure, as well as the long-term cash flows and cash needs of our different businesses. These transactions may impact our overall tax rate and/or result in additional cash tax payments. The impact in any period may be significant. These transactions may be complex and the impact of such transactions on future periods may be difficult to estimate. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we can provide no assurances that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, we believe it is impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. 39 Discontinued Operations On July 17, 2015, we completed the Distribution, pursuant to which PayPal became an independent company. Beginning in the third quarter of 2015, PayPal's historical financial results for periods prior to the Distribution have been reflected in our condensed consolidated statement of income, retrospectively, as discontinued operations. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations in the prior year are classified as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Pursuant to the terms of the separation and distribution agreement entered into between us and PayPal on June 26, 2015, upon Distribution, assets related to the PayPal business were transferred to, and liabilities related to the PayPal business were retained or assumed by, PayPal. See "Note 3 - Discontinued Operations" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. During the second quarter of 2015, our Board approved a plan to sell Enterprise. As a result, the Enterprise financial results were reflected in our condensed consolidated statement of income, retrospectively, as discontinued operations beginning in the second quarter of 2015. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations are classified as held for sale in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. On July 16, 2015, we signed a definitive agreement to sell Enterprise and, subject to customary closing conditions, we expect to close this transaction in the fourth quarter of 2015. See "Note 3 - Discontinued Operations" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Non-GAAP Measure of Financial Performance To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, we use FX-Neutral net revenue as a non-GAAP measure. FX-Neutral net revenue excludes the impact of foreign currency exchange rates. This non-GAAP measure is not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, this non-GAAP measure is not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. This measure should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measure. Reconciliation to the nearest GAAP measure of this non-GAAP measure included can be found in the table included above. This non-GAAP measure is provided to enhance investors' overall understanding of our current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe this non-GAAP measure provides useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign currency exchange rate impact that may not be indicative of its core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, we believe that the inclusion of this non-GAAP measure provides consistency in our financial reporting. In addition to this corresponding GAAP measure, management uses the foregoing non-GAAP measure in reviewing our financial results. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Nine Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Continuing operating activities $ 1,751 $ 2,390 Continuing investing activities 549 (3,085 ) Continuing financing activities (1,733 ) 24 Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (286 ) (38 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents - discontinued (4,194 ) 1,005 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (3,913 ) $ 296 40 Continuing Operating Activities The net cash provided by continuing operating activities of $1.8 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was due primarily to net income of $1.2 billion with adjustments for loss from discontinued operations of $176 million , $516 million in depreciation and amortization, $199 million in provision for transaction losses, and $301 million in stock-based compensation, and a decrease of $212 million gain on sale of investments, $115 million in deferred income taxes and $362 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects. The net cash provided by continuing operating activities of $2.4 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was due primarily to net loss of $977 million with adjustments for income from discontinued operations of $617 million , $518 million in depreciation and amortization, $196 million in provision for transaction losses, $251 million in stock-based compensation, $3.0 billion in deferred income taxes and $40 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects. Continuing Investing Activities The net cash provided by continuing investing activities of $549 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was due primarily to proceeds of $5.6 billion from the maturities and sale of investments, partially offset by cash paid for purchases of investments of $4.5 billion , purchases of property and equipment of $539 million and net cash paid for acquisition of businesses of $24 million . The net cash used in continuing investing activities of $3.1 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was due primarily to cash paid for purchases of investments of $6.8 billion , purchases of property and equipment of $422 million and net cash paid for acquisition of businesses of $55 million partially offset by proceeds of $4.2 billion from the maturities and sale of investments. The largely offsetting effects of purchases of investments and maturities and sale of investments results from the management of our portfolio of short term and long term investments. As our immediate cash needs change, purchase and sale activity will fluctuate. In the nine months ended September 30, 2014, a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of senior notes were used to purchase investments in our short term and long term portfolios. Continuing Financing Activities The net cash used in continuing financing activities of $1.7 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was due primarily to cash outflows from $1.5 billion to repurchase common stock, $250 million payment of debt upon maturity and cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $226 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock units and awards. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows of $173 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and the effect of $72 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The net cash provided by continuing financing activities of $24 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2014 was due primarily to cash inflows from $3.5 billion from the issuance of senior notes, $178 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and the effect of $56 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. These cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows of $3.5 billion to repurchase common stock and cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $224 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock units and awards. The negative effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Euro. 41 Stock Repurchases In January 2014, our Board authorized a stock repurchase program that provided for the repurchase of up to an additional $5 billion of our common stock, with no expiration from the date of authorization. In January 2015, our Board authorized an additional $2 billion stock repurchase program, with no expiration from the date of authorization. In July 2015, our Board authorized an additional $1 billion stock repurchase program, with no expiration from the date of authorization. The stock repurchase programs are intended to offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic repurchases of our common stock to reduce outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions (including accelerated share repurchase transactions) or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , we repurchased approximately $1.6 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. These amounts differ from the stock repurchase balances in the condensed consolidated statements of cash flows due to unsettled stock repurchases at September 30, 2015. As of September 30, 2015 , a total of approximately $2.4 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our January 2015 and July 2015 repurchase programs and no amount remained available under our January 2014 repurchase program. We expect, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties, to continue making opportunistic repurchases of our common stock. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. Shelf Registration Statement and Long-Term Debt At September 30, 2015 , we had an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue various types of debt securities, as well as common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares representing fractional interest in shares of preferred stock, purchase contracts and units from time to time in one or more offerings. Each issuance under the shelf registration statement will require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be issued. The registration statement does not limit the amount of securities that may be issued thereunder. Our ability to issue securities is subject to market conditions and other factors including, in the case of our debt securities, our credit ratings and compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement. We previously issued senior notes in underwritten public offerings under prior registration statements. The senior notes that remained outstanding as of September 30, 2015 consisted of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 1.625% fixed rate notes due 2015, $450 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due 2017, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.35% fixed rate notes due 2017, $400 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due 2019, $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.2% fixed rate notes due 2019, $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.250% fixed rate notes due 2020, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.60% fixed rate notes due 2022, $750 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% fixed rate notes due 2021, $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.45% fixed rate notes due 2024 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.00% fixed rate notes due 2042. The net proceeds from the sale of these senior notes were used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, the repayment of outstanding commercial paper borrowings. During the nine months ended September 30, 2015 , $250 million aggregate principal amount of 0.70% fixed rate notes due 2015 matured and was repaid during the quarter. The repayment of this debt represents a reduction in leverage, however we may seek to increase our indebtedness to provide additional flexibility to manage our capital structure. To help achieve our interest rate risk management objectives, we previously entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $2.4 billion of the fixed rate notes to floating rate debt based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread. These swaps were designated as fair value hedges against changes in the fair value of certain fixed rate senior notes resulting from changes in interest rates. The indenture pursuant to which the senior notes were issued includes customary covenants that, among other things and subject to exceptions, limit our ability to incur, assume or guarantee debt secured by liens on specified assets or enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to specified properties, and also includes customary events of default. 42 Commercial Paper We have a $2 billion commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue in an aggregate principal amount at maturity of up to $2 billion at any time outstanding. As of September 30, 2015 , there were no commercial paper notes outstanding. We have in the past used proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes, including funding share repurchases. We may elect, subject to market conditions, to issue additional commercial paper notes from time to time in the future. Credit Agreement As of September 30, 2015 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under our $3 billion credit agreement. As described above, we have an up to $2 billion commercial paper program and maintain $2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they become due. As a result, at September 30, 2015 , $1 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. The credit agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the banks. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens, subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenant requires us to meet a quarterly financial test with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. Other Indebtedness In addition to the debt described above, as of September 30, 2015 , we had $25 million of borrowings outstanding under our overdraft facilities. We were in compliance with all covenants in our outstanding debt instruments for the three-month period ended September 30, 2015 . Credit Ratings Our credit ratings were downgraded as a result of the Distribution. As of January 1, 2014, our long-term debt and short-term funding were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated A, short-term rated A-1, with a stable outlook), Moody's Investor Service (long-term rated A2, short-term rated P-1, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated A, short-term rated F-1, with a stable outlook). All of these credit rating agencies lowered their ratings in connection with the Distribution, which occurred on July 17, 2015. As of July 20, 2015, we were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook), Moody's Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated BBB, short-term rated F-2, with a stable outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any further actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, as described above, will likely increase our borrowing costs. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of September 30, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, in an aggregate amount of $8.0 billion and $12.4 billion , respectively. As of September 30, 2015 , $6.5 billion of our cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, was held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Of the $6.5 billion held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, approximately $5.0 billion was available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. income taxes in excess of the amounts already accrued in our consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2015 . As of September 30, 2015, we had not repatriated any of these funds to the U.S. and, as a result, we have not yet paid U.S. tax on any portion of these funds. However, to the extent that we repatriate these funds to the U.S., we will be required to pay U.S. income and applicable foreign withholding taxes on those amounts during the period when such repatriation occurs. The remaining amount of non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, have been indefinitely reinvested and, therefore, no U.S. current or deferred taxes have been accrued as this amount is necessary to support our planned ongoing investments in our foreign operations. We believe our U.S. sources of cash and liquidity are sufficient to meet our business needs in the U.S., and we do not expect that we will need to repatriate the funds we have designated as indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Under current tax laws, should our plans change and we were to choose to repatriate some or all of the funds we have designated as 43 indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S., such amounts would be subject to U.S. income taxes and applicable non-U.S. income and withholding taxes. In connection with the Distribution, we reviewed our capital allocation strategy to ensure that each of PayPal and eBay would be well capitalized at Distribution. As part of this strategy, we contributed approximately $3.8 billion of cash to PayPal during the nine months ended September 30, 2015 . This contribution consisted of approximately $1.8 billion of domestic sources and $2.0 billion of international sources. We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures and stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2015 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. This arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the same financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). This arrangement also allow us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under the arrangement. As of September 30, 2015 , we had a total of $2.9 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $2.9 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangements. Indemnification Provisions In the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations, including our standard marketing, promotions and application-programming-interface license agreements. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to our performance under the subject agreement. In certain cases, we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively.