Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the caption Seasonality. Technology The eBay Marketplace uses a combination of proprietary technologies and services as well as technologies and services provided by others. We have developed intuitive user interfaces, buyer, seller and developer tools and transaction processing, database and network applications that help enable our users to reliably and securely complete transactions on our sites. Our technology infrastructure simplifies the storage and processing of large amounts of data, eases the deployment and operation of large-scale global products and services and automates much of the administration of large-scale clusters of computers. Our infrastructure has been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences. In support of our commitment to innovation and a better customer experience, we have been on a multi-year evolution to modernize our marketplace. Through technologies like artificial intelligence, we are anticipating the needs of buyers, sellers and developers, empowering entrepreneurs looking to grow their business, and making the platform more accessible to everyone. We aim to create highly personalized and inspiring shopping experiences powered by advanced technologies. 7 Table of Contents For information regarding technology-related risks, see the information in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the captions Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and cyberattacks, Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of or degradation in the performance of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business and New laws and increasing levels of regulation in the areas of privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. Intellectual Property We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay name), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We routinely enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and nondisclosure agreements with parties with whom we conduct business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is typically expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful. We have registered our core brands as trademarks and domain names in the U.S. and a large number of other jurisdictions and have in place an active program to continue to secure trademarks and domain names that correspond to our brands in markets of interest. If we are unable to register or protect our trademarks or domain names, we could be adversely affected in any jurisdiction in which our trademarks or domain names are not registered or protected. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. From time to time, third parties have claimed and others will likely claim in the future that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. We are typically involved in a number of such legal proceedings at any time. Please see the information in Item 3: Legal Proceedings and in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the captions The listing or sale by our users of certain items, including items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, such as pirated or counterfeit items, illegal items or items used in an illegal manner may harm our business, and We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and face ongoing allegations by third parties that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Human Capital Management As of December 31, 2022, we employed approximately 11,600 people globally. Approximately 6,800 of our employees were located in the U.S. eBay has robust people-focused programs to support and retain our employees globally and to attract our future employees. Our recruitment, development, compensation and benefits, and wellness programs are designed to reflect our values, ensure eBays competitiveness in the market for talent, and be a place that is welcoming and inclusive. eBays management is focused on delivering programs that develop and support our people and connect them with our customers, our community, and each other. Given the importance of eBays employees to our overall success, in 2022 we expanded the Compensation Committees charter to include oversight of the companys human capital management strategy and practices, including activities such as talent recruitment, development and retention, employee engagement, succession planning, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Culture eBays purpose to connect people and build communities to create economic opportunity for all continues to serve as the backbone of our culture and generates a sense of pride and commitment to our purpose amongst our employees. We bring this purpose to life through five core beliefs that every eBayer embodies as part of their day-to-day work. These beliefs reflect our shared desire to be part of a company focused on our customers and delivering value while having fun. Our Beliefs are: 8 Table of Contents Empower our community Innovate boldly Deliver with impact Be for everyone Act with integrity In addition to our beliefs, there are thoughtful and specifically designed benefits and programs that ensure our people are well cared for, listened to, and supported while at eBay. Evolving How We Work We continue to monitor and adapt to workplace changes brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. As eBay reopened its offices around the globe our employees now have the opportunity to work in one of three models: onsite, remote, or hybrid. We implemented eBay FlexWork to support hybrid workers and continue to provide equipment, systems and resources to facilitate a connected workforce regardless of whether employees are in the office or working from home, including for our customer experience team members who are continuing to work from home in most cases. While weve seen an increase in employees that are returning to the office, weve maintained programs that we leveraged during the pandemic to provide back-up in-home child and adult care in the U.S., U.K., Canada, Germany and Ireland to support families and caregivers. In addition, as we continued to hire employees throughout the pandemic, we have reimagined the employee onboarding experience to be more virtual and self-service. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&I) remains a priority area of focus for eBay. In 2022 we made the decision to get clearer about the outcomes were driving towards as it relates to DE&I in service of our commitment to being a richly diverse, truly equitable and fearlessly inclusive place to work, grow, sell and buy. Our four DE&I objectives are to increase representation, cultivate a sense of belonging, engage our communities and allies, and build inclusive technology. Equity remains at the forefront of all we do to hire, grow, and retain top talent, enhance corporate performance, and foster a welcoming and inclusive place to work, learn and grow. We continue to enhance our people processes, leverage actionable data insights, provide ongoing learning and development practices to ensure we move this work forward. Delivering a governance model to ensure that we drive shared accountability throughout the organization remains a priority. Our Communities of Inclusion welcome and connect eBay employees all over the world to help us nurture employees, allies and external communities. They host events and forums to connect employees to groups organized around age, disability status, race/ethnicity, gender, military status, caregiver status, sexual orientation, and gender identity and expression. We are currently preparing our sixth Global Diversity, Equity & Inclusion report for publication in the second quarter of 2023. Well-Being Support for Employees and Their Families eBay has continually engaged with our people to support their physical, financial, and mental well-being for them and their families through expanded wellness resources, webinars, telehealth access and expansion of company-paid mental health support globally as well as additional training for managers and peers to support mental health and manage burnout. As part of these efforts, weve focused on ensuring our employees and their families have timely access to high quality care. In addition to competitive pay and benefits, eBay offers additional parental time off beyond what is required by law in the U.S. and in most countries where we operate. This benefit is offered for parents welcoming a new child into the family whether by giving birth, adopting or welcoming a child through surrogacy. This is an important demonstration of our commitment to working parents and their families. Acting with Integrity We maintained our commitment to ethics and acting with integrity in 2022. We took actions to ensure that we are open, honest, ethical and authentic with ongoing trainings, quarterly tone from the top engagements between leaders with their employees and daily ethics contests during Ethics and Compliance Week. 9 Table of Contents Employee Voice & Values In addition to multiple channels for sharing feedback, we also regularly survey our employees on trust and engagement, their experience with diversity, equity and inclusion, ethics and integrity, and this year regarding their thoughts on returning to the office. Our employees welcome sharing their points of view with us and are encouraged by how their input molds several strategic programs and our values which covers our beliefs and includes our commitments in critical areas such as Impact and Responsibility. Available Information Our Internet address is www.ebay.com . Our investor relations website is located at investors.ebayinc.com . We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under the heading Financial Information - SEC Filings our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such materials are electronically filed with (or furnished to) the SEC at www.sec.gov. We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, and blogs on our investor relations website. Company sustainability information for investors is available on our investor relations website under the heading ESG Investors. Corporate governance information, including our governance guidelines for our Board of Directors (Board), Board committee charters and code of conduct, is also available on our investor relations website under the heading Corporate Governance. The contents of our websites and webcasts and information that can be accessed through our websites and webcasts are not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file with (or furnish to) the SEC, and any references to our websites and webcasts are intended to be inactive textual references only. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A: RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Summary: The summary of risks below provides an overview of the principal risks we are exposed to in the normal course of our business activities: Our operating and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business. The global COVID-19 pandemic could harm our business and results of operations. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our financial results. Our international operations and engagement in cross-border trade are subject to risks, which could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical events, natural disasters, seasonal factors and similar factors. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments or continue to innovate and create new initiatives to provide new programs, products and services, the use of our products and our revenues could decline. Changes to our programs to protect buyers and sellers could increase our costs and loss rate, and failure to manage such programs effectively can result in harm to our reputation. Operations and continued development of our payments system and financial services offerings require ongoing investment, are subject to evolving laws, regulations, rules, and standards, and involve risk, including risks related to our dependence on third-party providers. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and face ongoing allegations by third parties that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent activities on our platforms would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and cyberattacks. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of or degradation in the performance of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. We may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees and senior management that we need to support our business. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our sellers could harm our business. Our business is subject to extensive and increasing government regulation and oversight, which could adversely impact our business. New laws and increasing levels of regulation in the areas of privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. We are regularly subject to litigation and regulatory and government inquiries, investigations and disputes, as our business evolves and as governments and regulators seek to extend new and existing laws to reach our business model. We are subject to regulatory activity under competition laws that could adversely impact our business. The listing or sale by our users of certain items, including items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, illegal items or items used in an illegal manner may harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. Fluctuations in interest rates could adversely impact our financial results. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our business to service our indebtedness. Our business and our sellers and buyers may be subject to sales and other tax regimes in various jurisdictions, which may harm our business. Acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures, strategic partnerships and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. We could incur significant liability if the Distribution of PayPal is determined to be a taxable transaction. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the Distribution of PayPal. 11 Table of Contents Risk Factors: You should carefully review the following discussion of the risks that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information appearing in this report, for important information regarding risks that affect us. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks. These risks are not the only risks that may affect us. Additional risks that we are not aware of or do not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. Business, Economic, Market and Operating Risks Our operating and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the following risks and other risks set forth in this Risk Factors section. our ability to convert visits into sales for our sellers; the amount and timing of expenses; our success in attracting and retaining sellers and buyers; changes in consumer discretionary spending trends, including shifts in interests away from any of our major categories; our success in executing on our strategy and the impact of any changes in our strategy; the timing and success of product launches, including new services and features we may introduce; the success of our marketing efforts; and the impact of competitive and industry developments and our response to those developments. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings (loss) accurately, particularly given that substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our consolidated financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected percentages. Because our business model is dependent upon consumer spending, our results of operations are sensitive to changes in or uncertainty about macro-economic conditions. Our buyers may in the future have less capacity for discretionary purchases and may reduce their purchases from our sellers as a result of various factors, including job losses, inflation (such as recent inflationary pressure), higher taxes, reduced access to credit, changes in federal economic policy, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, recent global economic uncertainty, lower consumer confidence and demand for discretionary goods, and geopolitical events such as recent international trade disputes and the ongoing war in Ukraine. Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business. The businesses and markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to consumers and merchants, a number of which have significant resources, large user communities and well-established brands. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. We compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both buyers and sellers to use our platforms. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through us have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to reach consumers. We expect competition to continue to intensify. The barriers to entry into these channels can be low, and businesses can easily launch online sites or mobile platforms and applications at nominal cost by using commercially available software or partnering with any of a number of successful ecommerce, search, advertising or social companies. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service, policy or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among sellers, which could reduce activity on our platform and harm our reputation and profitability. 12 Table of Contents We face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. In addition, certain platform businesses, such as Alibaba, Alphabet (Google), Amazon, Apple, Meta (Facebook and Instagram), many of whom are larger than us or have greater capitalization, have a dominant and secure position in other industries or certain significant markets, and offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer. If we are unable to change our products, offerings and services in ways that reflect the changing demands of ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, or if products offered through eBay are not available for purchase where the consumers shop, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), or if we are unable to compete effectively with and adapt to changes in larger platform businesses, our business and reputation will suffer. Competitors with other revenue sources may also be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns and buyer acquisition, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote more resources to website, mobile platforms and applications and systems development than we can. Other competitors may offer or continue to offer faster and/or free shipping, delivery on Sunday, same-day delivery, favorable return policies or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for our sellers to match. Competitors may be more narrowly focused on a particular type of goods and create a compelling community, be able to innovate faster and more efficiently, and new technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Some of our competitors control other products and services that are important to our success, including credit card interchange, Internet search, and mobile operating systems. Such competitors could manipulate pricing, availability, terms or operation of service related to their products and services in a manner that impacts our competitive offerings. For example, Alphabet, which operates a shopping platform service, has from time to time made changes to its search algorithms that reduced the amount of search traffic directed to us from searches on Google. If we are unable to use or adapt to operational changes in such services, we may face higher costs for such services, face integration or technological barriers or lose customers, which could cause our business to suffer. Consumers who might use our sites to buy goods have a wide variety of alternatives, including traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online and mobile operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers and their related mobile offerings, online and offline aggregation and classified services, social media platforms and other shopping channels, such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the United States, these include, but are not limited to, Amazon, Facebook, Instagram, Google, Walmart, Target, Macys, Etsy, StockX, Shopify, Wayfair, TheRealReal, Overstock.com and Rakuten, among others. In addition, consumers have a large number of online and offline channels focused on one or more of the categories of products offered on our site, including but not limited to, Back Market, Chrono24, FARFETCH and GOAT Group, among others. Consumers also can turn to many companies that offer a variety of services that provide other channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including social media, online aggregation and classifieds platforms, such as websites operated by Adevinta or Naspers Limited and others such as craigslist, Oodle.com and Meta. Consumers also can turn to shopping-comparison sites, such as Google Shopping, or social networks that enable purchases such as Pinterest, Facebook and Instagram. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats increasingly are being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. Consumers may choose to search for products and services with a horizontal search engine or shopping comparison website, and such sites may also send users to other shopping destinations. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on horizontal search engine sites, such as Google, Naver and Baidu. Consumers and merchants who might use our sites to sell goods also have many alternatives, including general ecommerce sites, such as Amazon, Alibaba, and Zalando, and more specialized sites, such as Etsy. Our international sites also compete for sellers with general and specialized ecommerce sites. Sellers may also choose to sell their goods through other channels, such as multi-channel services like Shopify or classifieds platforms. Consumers and merchants also can create and sell through their own sites, and may choose to purchase online advertising instead of using our services. In some countries, there are online sites that have larger customer bases 13 Table of Contents and greater brand recognition, as well as competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce. We may increasingly compete with local competitors in developing countries that have unique advantages, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. We generate a meaningful amount of our revenue from our Promoted Listings (a first-party advertising offering) and, to a lesser extent, third-party advertising. To sustain or increase our advertising revenue, we must continue to provide customers with compelling advertising products to maintain or increase the amount of advertising purchased through our platform. If we are unable to compete effectively for advertising spend, our business and operating results could be harmed. In addition, certain manufacturers may limit or cease distribution of their products through online channels, such as our sites. Manufacturers may attempt to use contractual obligations or existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit ecommerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may also attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our platforms or on the Internet generally, or drive distributors to sell at prices that would make us less attractive relative to other alternatives. The adoption of those or other policies could adversely affect our results of operations and result in loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. The principal competitive factors for us include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; brand recognition; community cohesion, interaction and size; website, mobile platform and application ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability and security; reliability of delivery and payment, including customer preference for fast delivery and free shipping and returns; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. The global COVID-19 pandemic could harm our business and results of operations. The global spread of COVID-19 variants and related measures to contain its spread (such as government mandated business closures and shelter in-place guidelines) have created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity in the future will depend on numerous evolving factors that we cannot predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic, including as a result of the emergence of new variants; any resurgence of the pandemic; the availability and distribution of effective treatments and vaccines; governmental, business and individuals actions that have been and continue to be taken in response to the pandemic, including Chinas former zero-COVID policy and its impact to the global supply chain; the impact of the pandemic on national and global economic activity, unemployment levels and financial markets, including the possibility of a national or global recession; the potential for shipping difficulties, including slowed deliveries from sellers to their customers; and the ability of consumers to pay for products. The COVID-19 pandemic has generally resulted in a shift in consumer spending, which could have an adverse impact on our sellers through reduced consumer demand for their products and availability of inventory, which could in turn negatively impact the demand for use of our platforms. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic caused us to require employees to work remotely for an extended period of time. More recently, we have shifted to a flexible working model, which, in addition to providing for onsite and hybrid work arrangements, allows some of our employees to work fully remote, which could negatively impact our business and harm productivity and collaboration. If there is a prolonged impact of COVID-19, it could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, perhaps materially. The future impact of COVID-19 and these containment measures cannot be predicted with certainty and may increase our borrowing costs and other costs of capital and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial 14 Table of Contents condition and liquidity, and we cannot assure that we will have access to external financing at times and on terms we consider acceptable, or at all, or that we will not experience other liquidity issues going forward. The COVID-19 pandemic and the related measures to contain its spread did not adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Initially, our Marketplace platforms experienced improved traffic and buyer acquisition due to the ongoing impact of mobility restrictions taken globally to contain the spread of COVID-19 and changes in consumer behaviors that resulted in more online shopping. However, as restrictions have loosened and mobility continues to increase, we have seen net revenues decrease and GMV decrease across major categories, primarily due to a decline in traffic resulting from the normalization of consumer behavior in 2022 compared to the elevated traffic experienced on our Marketplace platforms from the impact of COVID-19 during 2021. These trends may continue, and the impacts seen may continue to create volatility in our results and a wider range of outcomes as consumer behaviors and mobility restrictions continue to evolve. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which could negatively impact our financial results. Because we generate approximately half of our revenues outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our financial results are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or foreign exchange rates. The results of operations of many of our internationally focused platforms are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could significantly impact our financial results, which may have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our international operations and engagement in cross-border trade are subject to risks, which could harm our business. Our international businesses, especially in the United Kingdom, Germany and Australia, and cross-border business from greater China, have generated approximately half of our net revenues in recent years. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions resulting from inflationary pressures, increasing interest rates and the ongoing war in Ukraine; uncertainties caused by decreasing consumer confidence and demand for discretionary goods; expenses associated with localizing our products and services and customer data, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; global or regional economic conditions that impact companies and customers with which we do business; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues (such as COVID-19 variants), acts of war (such as the ongoing war in Ukraine), and terrorism; supply chain disruptions; import or export regulations; economic and trade sanctions; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, as well as U.S. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; 15 Table of Contents potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; payment intermediation regulations; local licensing and reporting obligations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could harm our business. Cross-border trade is an important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (or in some cases, only) presence in certain important markets, such as China, and various other countries. The interpretation and/or application of laws, such as those related to intellectual property rights of authentic products, selective distribution networks, and sellers in other countries listing items on the Internet, could impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, purchasing, selling, shipping, or returning goods across national borders. The shipping of goods across national borders is often more expensive and complicated than domestic shipping. Any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade or restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical would lower our revenues and profits and could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical events, natural disasters, seasonal factors and other factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites or mobile platforms and applications, including increased usage of other websites. Our users may spend less time on our websites and our applications for mobile devices as a result of a variety of diversions, including: geopolitical events, such as war (including the ongoing war in Ukraine), the threat of war, or terrorist activity; natural disasters or the effects of climate change (such as drought, flooding, wildfires, increased storm severity and sea level rise); power shortages or outages, major public health issues, including pandemics (such as COVID-19 variants); less discretionary spend due to increasing utility prices in the European Union; social networking or other entertainment websites or mobile applications; significant local, national or global events capturing the attention of a large part of the population; and seasonal fluctuations due to a variety of factors. If any of these, or any other factors, divert our users from using our websites or mobile applications, our business could be materially adversely affected. In 2022, we experienced reduced traffic in most markets resulting from geopolitical events (such as the ongoing war in Ukraine), inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility and lower consumer confidence. These factors are negatively impacting discretionary consumer spending and may continue to do so indefinitely, which could harm our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments or continue to innovate and create new initiatives to provide new programs, products and services, the use of our products and our revenues could decline. Rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the industries in which we operate and we cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We also continuously strive to create new initiatives and innovations that promote growth, such as our payments and advertising offerings and other features that enhance the customer experience. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge. These new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures and take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from our users, clients or merchants, or third parties intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. 16 Table of Contents Changes to our programs to protect buyers and sellers could increase our costs and loss rate, and failure to manage such programs effectively can result in harm to our reputation. Our eBay Money Back Guarantee program represents the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased or have received an item different from what was described. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sorts of claims is beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions. Litigation involving liability for any such third-party actions could result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments or settlements or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Since transitioning to our payments system, we have also experienced and may continue to experience increased costs from chargebacks on payments, due to instances of forced transaction reversals initiated by buyers through their payment card issuers. These forced transaction reversals can be initiated for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, fraud or seller nonperformance, among others. Additionally, in order to further strengthen our buyers confidence and trust in our services and the goods offered on our marketplace, we introduced "Authenticity Guarantee," an independent authentication service, in 2020 in select categories in the U.S. and have since expanded this service to more luxury categories and more markets. If we are unable to effectively manage the authentication process, including the third-party service providers on whom we rely for much of our item authentication, we may suffer harm to our reputation and may be subject to litigation, which could be costly and time-consuming for us. Operations and continued development of our payments system and financial services offerings require ongoing investment, are subject to evolving laws, regulations, rules, and standards, and involve risk, including risks related to our dependence on third-party providers. We have invested and plan to continue to invest internal resources into our payments tools in order to maintain existing availability, expand into additional markets and offer new payment methods and other types of financial services to our buyers and sellers. If we fail to invest adequate resources into payments on our platform, or if our investment efforts are unsuccessful, unreliable or result in system failure, our payments and financial services may not function properly or keep pace with competitive offerings, which could negatively impact their usage and our Marketplace. Future errors, failures or outages could cause our buyers and sellers to lose confidence in our payments system and could cause them to cease using our marketplace. If we transition to new third-party payment service providers for any reason, we may be required to invest significant financial and personnel resources to support such transition or could be unable to find a suitable replacement service provider. As we offer new payment methods and financial services to our sellers and buyers, we are now subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements, and exposed to heightened fraud and regulatory risk, which could lead to an increase in our operating expenses . We rely on third-party service providers to perform services related to compliance among other activities, credit card processing, payment disbursements, currency exchange, identity verification, sanctions screening, and fraud analysis and detection. As a result, we are subject to a number of risks related to our dependence on third-party service providers. If any or some of these service providers fail to perform adequately or if any such service provider were to terminate or modify its relationship with us unexpectedly, our sellers ability to use our platform to receive orders or payments could be adversely affected, which would increase costs, drive sellers away from our marketplaces, result in potential legal liability, and harm our business. In addition, we and our third-party service providers may experience service outages from time to time that could adversely impact payments made on our platform. Additionally, any unexpected termination or modification of those third-party services could lead to a lapse in the effectiveness of certain fraud prevention and detection tools. Our third-party service providers may increase the fees they charge us in the future, which would increase our operating expenses. This could, in turn, require us to increase the fees we charge to sellers and cause some sellers to reduce listings on our marketplaces or to leave our platform altogether by closing their accounts. 17 Table of Contents Payments and other financial services are governed by complex and continuously evolving laws and regulations that are subject to change and vary across different jurisdictions in the United States and globally. As a result, we are required to spend significant time and effort to determine whether various licensing and registration laws relating to payments and other financial services we offer apply to us and to comply with applicable laws and licensing and registration regulations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain or retain any necessary licenses or registrations. Any failure or claim of failure on the part of the Company or its third-party service providers to comply with applicable laws and regulations relating to payments or financial services could require us to expend significant resources, result in liabilities, limit or preclude our ability to enter certain markets and harm our reputation. In addition, changes in payment regulations, or other financial regulation, including changes to the credit or debit card interchange rates in the United States or other markets, could adversely affect payments on our platform and make our payments systems less profitable . Further, we are indirectly subject to payment card association operating rules and certification requirements pursuant to agreements with our third-party payment processors. These rules and requirements, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard and rules governing electronic funds transfers, are subject to change or reinterpretation, making it difficult for us to comply. Any failure to comply with these rules and certification requirements could impact our ability to meet our contractual obligations to our third-party payment processors and could result in potential fines. In addition, changes in these rules and requirements, including any change in our designation by major payment card providers, could require a change in our business operations and could result in limitations on or loss of our ability to accept payment cards or other forms of payment, any of which could negatively impact our business. Such changes could also increase our costs of compliance, which could lead to increased fees for us or our sellers and adversely affect payments on our platform or usage of our payments services and Marketplace. Our payments system is susceptible to illegal uses, including money laundering, terrorist financing, fraud and payments to sanctioned parties. If our compliance program and internal controls to limit such illegal activity are ineffective, government authorities could bring legal action against us or otherwise suspend our ability to offer payment services in one or more markets. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and face ongoing allegations by third parties that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We believe the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is critical to our success. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the United States and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. Trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every jurisdiction. Also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could materially harm our business. Additionally, we have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties patents. We are a defendant in various patent suits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. As the number of patent owners and products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the intellectual property rights of others and we may become increasingly 18 Table of Contents subject to patent suits and other infringement claims, including copyright, and trademark infringement claims. Such claims may be brought directly against us and/or against our customers whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. Patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent activities on our platforms would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. We face reputational and other risks with respect to fraudulent activities on our platforms and periodically receive complaints from buyers and sellers who may not have received the goods that they had contracted to purchase or payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While we can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, we do not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our protection programs. Although we have implemented measures to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activities, combat bad buyer experiences and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their identity and transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improving overall satisfaction among sellers, buyers, and other participants. If these measures fail to address fraud effectively, buyers and sellers could lose trust in our marketplace, and our reputation and results of operations could suffer as a result. Additional measures to address fraud could negatively affect the attractiveness of our services to buyers or sellers, resulting in a reduction in the ability to attract new users or retain current users, damage to our reputation, or a diminution in the value of our brand names. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and cyberattacks. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users personal information, including financial information. In addition, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us or, in certain cases, third-party service providers utilized in our payment services. An increasing number of websites, including those owned by several other large Internet and offline companies, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks (including ransomware attacks) or security incidents and third parties may be able to access our users proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through our systems. Any security breach at a company providing services to us or our users could have similar effects. We may also need to expend significant additional resources to protect against security breaches or to redress problems caused by breaches. Additionally, our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches and we may not be able to fully collect, if at all, under these insurance policies. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of or degradation in the performance of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. Our systems may experience service interruptions or degradation due to hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, or other events. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. We have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures, denial-of-service attacks, human error and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce the speed or functionality of our websites and mobile applications, including our payments services. These events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the speed or other functionality of our websites and mobile applications or payments services could materially harm our business. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our 19 Table of Contents systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their businesses, these customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. We also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties and our business may be materially adversely affected to the extent these components or services do not meet our expectations or these third parties cease to provide the services or facilities. In particular, a decision by any of our third party hosting providers to close a facility that we use could cause system interruptions and delays, result in loss of critical data and cause lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. Our success largely depends on key employees. Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. The loss of senior management or other key employees could harm our business. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key employees, including highly skilled engineers and product developers, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate them. Competition for highly skilled individuals is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley where our corporate headquarters are located, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified employees. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, employees often consider the value of their total compensation, including share-based awards such as restricted stock units, that they could receive in connection with their employment. In addition, our employee hiring and retention also depend on our ability to build and maintain a diverse, welcoming and inclusive workplace. If our share-based or other compensation programs cease to be viewed as competitive, including due to fluctuations in our stock price, or our workplace is not viewed as welcoming and inclusive, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees would be weakened, which could harm our business. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key employees and do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key employees, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key employees, could harm our business. Our business is primarily non-unionized, but we have some works councils outside the U.S. There has been a general increase in workers organizing to form or join a union in the U.S. While we have not seen a material increase in such efforts among our employees, the unionization or related activism of significant employee populations could result in higher costs and other operational changes necessary to respond to changing conditions and to establish new relationships with worker representatives. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our sellers could harm our business. A number of third parties provide services to us or to our sellers. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our sellers list items, shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, managed payments intermediation and item authentication services, among others. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes, lockouts, worker shortages or work stoppages), or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our sellers could harm our business. Price increases by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to us and our sellers and clients could also reduce the number of listings on our platforms or make it more difficult for our sellers to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. While we continue to work with global carriers to offer our sellers a variety of shipping options and to enhance their shipping experience, postal rate increases may reduce the competitiveness of certain sellers offerings, and postal service changes and disruptions could require certain sellers to utilize alternatives which could be more expensive or inconvenient, which could in turn decrease the number of transactions on our sites, thereby harming our business. We have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support, managed payments, product development functions and much of our item authentication service, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and could harm our business. 20 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our sellers will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us or our sellers on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Regulatory and Legal Risks Our business is subject to extensive and increasing government regulation and oversight, which could adversely impact our business. We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our domestic and international operations in a number of areas, including consumer protection, data privacy requirements, intellectual property ownership and infringement, prohibited items and stolen goods, tax, antitrust and anti-competition, export requirements, anti-corruption, labor, advertising, digital content, real estate, payments and financial services, billing, ecommerce/marketplace liability, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, environmental, packaging and waste, and health and safety regulations, as well as laws and regulations intended to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. In addition, we are, or may become, subject to further regulation in some of the above-mentioned areas or new areas as a result of the continued development and expansion of our payments capabilities. Further, certain government agencies seek to hold us liable for third party sales on our Marketplace platforms to the extent such sales implicate laws and regulations enforced by those agencies, including specifically the Environmental Protection Agency (the EPA) and the Drug Enforcement Agency (the DEA), as described more fully under Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation and Other Legal Matters and below under the heading The listing or sale by our users of certain items, including items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, illegal items or items used in an illegal manner may harm our business. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and variances and inconsistencies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may further increase the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products or services in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our customers, employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. If we are held liable for any such violations, including relating to actions by third parties using our Marketplace platforms, we could be subject to monetary penalties, which depending on the matter could be material to us. Furthermore, our reputation could suffer harm as a result of any such violations. New laws and increasing levels of regulation in the areas of privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. We are subject to multiple laws relating to the collection, use, sharing, retention, security, transfer and other handling of personally identifiable information about individuals, including our users and employees around the world. Data protection and privacy laws may differ, and be interpreted and applied inconsistently, from country to country. In many cases, these laws apply not only to user data, employee data and third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among ourselves, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. These laws continue to develop around the globe and in ways we cannot predict and that may harm our business. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy, data protection, and collection, use and disclosure of personal data is increasing on a global basis. We are subject to a number of privacy laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate and these laws and regulations will likely continue to evolve over time, both through regulatory and legislative action and judicial decisions. In addition, compliance with these laws may restrict our ability to provide services to our customers that they may find to be valuable. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) became effective in May 2018. The GDPR, which applies to personal data collected in the context of all of our activities conducted from an establishment in the European Union, related to products and services offered to individuals in the European Union or related to the monitoring of individuals behavior in Europe, imposes a range of significant compliance obligations regarding the handling of personal data. Actions required to comply with these obligations depends in part on how particular and strict regulators interpret and apply them. If we fail to comply with 21 Table of Contents the GDPR, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with the GDPR, we may be subject to regulatory enforcement actions, that can result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of our annual worldwide revenue, private lawsuits, and/or reputational damage. In June 2021, the European Commission published new versions of the Standard Contractual Clauses, which are used as a legal cross-border mechanism allowing companies to transfer/allow access to personal data outside the European Economic Area. Also in June 2021, the European Data Protection Board finalized its recommendations regarding supplemental transfer measures to protect personal data during cross-border transfers. We must incur costs and expenses to comply with the new requirements, which may impact the cross-border transfer of personal data throughout our organization and to/from third parties. In the U.S., several states, including California, Colorado, Connecticut, Utah and Virginia, have adopted generally applicable and comprehensive privacy laws. These new and developing state laws provide a number of new privacy rights for residents of these states and impose corresponding obligations on organizations doing business in these states. Not only do these laws require that we make new disclosures to consumers, business contacts, employees, job applicants and others about our data collection, use and sharing practices, but they also require that we provide new rights, such as the rights to access, delete and correct personal data. While the California law (CCPA) became effective in 2020, it has already been amended significantly, and compliance with the amended law (CPRA) will be required in January 2023. Compliance with the other states laws will be required at different times during 2023. These new and amended laws will require us to continue to incur costs and expenses in our effort to comply. In addition, a number of other U.S. states are considering adopting laws and regulations imposing obligations regarding the handling of personal data. Compliance with the GDPR, the new state laws, and other current and future applicable U.S. and international privacy, data protection, cybersecurity, artificial intelligence and other data-related laws can be costly and time-consuming. Complying with these varying national and international data and privacy-related requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs and/or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and violations of data and privacy-related laws can result in significant penalties. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to our practices under communications-based laws could also expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. In particular, because of the enormous number of emails, texts and other communications we send to our users, communications laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation (such as those described below) could result in particularly large awards or fines. For example, under the federal Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or TCPA, we face potential exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with customers, including but not limited to text messages to mobile phones. Under the TCPA, plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. We are regularly subject to class-action lawsuits, as well as individual lawsuits, containing allegations that our businesses violated the TCPA. These lawsuits, and other private lawsuits not currently alleged as class actions, seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. While a 2021 Supreme Court decision narrowed the applicability of the TCPAs restrictions, plaintiffs continue to test the boundaries of the decision, and a few states, including Florida and Oklahoma, have adopted TCPA-like laws that similarly provide for statutory damages and a private right of action. Additional states may follow suit. Given the enormous number of communications we send to our users, a determination that there have been violations of the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. We post on our websites our privacy notices and practices concerning the collection, use, sharing, disclosure, deletion and retention of our user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy notices or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations, including the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA, could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action plaintiffs), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Data collection, data usage, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If Internet and mobile users were to reduce their use of our websites, mobile platforms, products, and services as a result of these concerns, or not consent to the use of their personal data for certain marketing or advertising purposes, our business could be harmed. We also have experienced security breaches and likely will in the future, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws and give rise to regulatory enforcement and/or private litigation. 22 Table of Contents Other laws and regulations could harm our business. It is not always clear how laws and regulations governing matters relevant to our business, such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, and obscenity apply to our businesses. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, mobile, and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Many of these laws, including some of those that do reference the Internet are subject to interpretation by the courts on an ongoing basis and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations of those laws and regulations. As our activities, the products and services we offer, our investment in other companies, and our geographical scope continue to expand, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to additional requirements (including licensure) or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions. For example, we have the ability to acquire investments in other companies (such as Adevinta, Adyen, KakaoBank and Gmarket, formerly known as Apollo Korea) that raise the potential for us to be deemed an investment company as defined by the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the Investment Company Act). While we intend to conduct our operations such that we will not be deemed an investment company, such a determination would require us to initiate burdensome compliance requirements and comply with restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act that would limit our activities, including limitations on our capital structure and our ability to transact with affiliates, which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Further, financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our businesses. Numerous U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, have regulations regarding auctions and the handling of property by secondhand dealers or pawnbrokers. Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted to impose such regulations upon us or our users, and others may attempt to do so in the future. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and we could be required to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues, such as forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations. We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. The European Union recently enacted the Digital Services Act (the DSA), which became effective in November 2022 and will begin to be enforced in early 2024 (or earlier if we qualify as a very large online platform). The DSA imposes legal obligations on online marketplaces operating in Europe, requiring them to verify and ensure the accuracy and disclosure of required information, as well as the safety and authenticity of products posted by third-party merchants. The DSA also enforces new content moderation obligations, notice obligations, advertising restrictions and other requirements on digital platforms that will create additional operational burdens and compliance costs for us. For online platforms like ours, noncompliance with the DSA could result in fines of up to 6% of annual global revenues, which would be adverse to our business. The European Union is also considering additional proposed regulations relating to the safety and sustainability of products on the EU market, which would bring new obligations both on us directly and our sellers and vendors. Additionally, certain EU-member countries have enacted anti-waste regulations that create direct obligations on sellers and impose compliance verification obligations on us. These anti-waste regulations vary by EU-member country, creating additional operational burdens and compliance costs on our sellers and us. These proposed and ongoing regulations could cause our marketplaces to be less attractive to current and prospective sellers and buyers, which could materially impact our business. Government regulators globally are also imposing new data reporting requirements on platforms for user tax compliance. These laws (e.g., DAC 7 in the EU, or 1099-K in the US) may make users more reluctant to use our services due to increased sensitivity around personal data collection and reporting, even when mandated by applicable laws and regulations. As we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more 23 Table of Contents of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. Laws regulating Internet, mobile and ecommerce technologies outside of the United States are generally less favorable to us than those in the United States. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on us or our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us (e.g., in cross-border trade). Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. We are regularly subject to litigation and regulatory and government inquiries, investigations and disputes, as our business evolves and as governments and regulators seek to extend new and existing laws to reach our business model. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits (including class actions and individual lawsuits), government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, accessibility claims, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, services and other matters. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our Company has grown larger, our businesses have expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. As the global regulatory and legal landscape evolves, we may also become subject to product liability or other claims when products sold by third parties using our platforms result in personal injury, illness, death, injury to property or harm to the environment, or such sales are alleged to be in violation of the law. As described more fully under Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation and Other Legal Matters and below under the heading The listing or sale by our users of certain items, including items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, illegal items or items used in an illegal manner may harm our business, certain government agencies are seeking to hold us liable for third party sales on our Marketplace platforms to the extent such sales implicate laws and regulations enforced by those agencies, including specifically the EPA and the DEA. In addition, as also more fully described under Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation and Other Legal Matters, we are responding to inquiries from the U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts regarding potential criminal liability of the Company arising from the stalking and harassment in 2019 of the editor and publisher of Ecommercebytes, a website that publishes ecommerce news and information. Six former Company employees and one former contractor have pleaded guilty to crimes arising from the conduct. The Company has begun discussions with the U.S. Attorneys Office, which discussions include a potential settlement. We expect any such settlement may include fines, other payments, and non-monetary remedies, such as additional remediation, compliance and reporting requirements. Furthermore, the editor and publisher also have a pending civil action against the Company, which seeks unspecified damages arising from the above-described conduct. The outcome and impact of such claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, such investigations and proceedings can have a material adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation and other proceedings is a complex, fact-intensive process that is subject to judgment calls. Based on currently available information, reasonably possible losses arising directly from such claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and other proceedings (i.e., monetary damages or amounts paid in judgment or settlement) in excess of our recorded accruals are not material. However, if one or more matters were resolved against us in a reporting period for amounts in excess of managements expectations, the impact on our operating results or financial condition for that reporting period could be material. These proceedings could also result in criminal sanctions, consent decrees, reputational harm, harm to our relations with various government agencies and regulators, or orders preventing us from offering certain products or services, or requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could harm our business. We are subject to regulatory activity under competition laws that could adversely impact our business. We are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including antitrust and competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the 24 Table of Contents past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the United States, individual states, the European Union or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. An increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities, including increased scrutiny in large markets such as China. Our business partnerships or agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the United States, may perceive our business to be used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. Certain competition authorities have conducted market studies of our industries. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, may be very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort and could result in significant judgments against us or require us to change our business practices. The listing or sale by our users of certain items, including items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, illegal items or items used in an illegal manner may harm our business. The listing or sale by our users of unlawful, counterfeit or stolen goods or unlawful services, or sale of goods or services in an unlawful manner, has resulted and may continue to result in allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities against us (including the employees and directors of our various entities) involving activities carried out by users through our services. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet violations of certain laws, including laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of digital goods (e.g., books, music and software), the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, customs laws, distance selling laws, and the sale of items outside of the United States that are regulated by U.S. export controls. In addition, allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, including but not limited to counterfeit items, have resulted in threatened and actual litigation from time to time by rights owners. These and similar suits may also force us to modify our business practices in a manner that increases costs, lowers revenue, makes our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to customers, and requires us to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings in order to combat these practices. In addition, we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal or counterfeit goods, which could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names, and make users reluctant to use our products and services. As described more fully under Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation and Other Legal Matters, we have received requests for information from government agencies related to our potential liability for products sold by sellers on our Marketplace platforms. We have responded to inquiries from the U.S. Department of Justice regarding products sold on our Marketplace platforms alleged to violate certain laws and regulations, including regulations of the EPA and, separately, regulations of the DEA. The inquiries relate to whether and to what extent we should be liable for the sale of regulated or illicit products manufactured and sold by others who listed such products on Marketplace platforms in a manner that evaded and/or was designed to evade detection by us. If we are found to be liable for such activities on our Marketplace, we likely will be subject to monetary damages, changes in our business practices, or other remedies that could have a material adverse impact on our business, and our reputation could suffer harm. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. Online services companies may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through their services, including claims alleging defamation, libel, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, among other things. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges both in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Any liabilities incurred as a result of these matters could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites may increase. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which could harm our business. 25 Table of Contents Interest Rate and Indebtedness Risks Fluctuations in interest rates, and changes in regulatory guidance related to such interest rates, could adversely impact our financial results. During 2022, the Federal Reserve raised benchmark interest rates to combat inflation, and interest rates are expected to continue to increase in 2023. Our borrowing costs will be impacted by rising interest rates, which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. The cost of future fixed rate indebtedness may be more expensive than existing fixed rate indebtedness that is coming due and being refinanced. Further, although as of December 31, 2022 we had no outstanding borrowings under our revolving credit facility, our revolving credit facility is subject to floating interest rates and therefore is also subject to interest rate risks to the extent we borrow in the future. We have in the past and may in the future enter into interest rate hedging arrangements, but we can provide no assurances that these arrangements will fully mitigate the increased borrowing costs. In addition, investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest-earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. As described more fully under Note 7 Investments, in 2022, the fair market value of our fixed-rate investment securities was adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, which may continue to occur. This increase was partially offset by increased interest income resulting from higher yielding investments in a higher interest rate environment. If rates were to return to lower levels, we would expect to see the opposite effect with a corresponding reduction in investment income and increase in fair value. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our business to service our indebtedness. Failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, including, without limitation, any of the following: requiring us to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other available cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes, including capital expenditures, dividends, share repurchases, and acquisitions; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures, and to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies will likely increase our borrowing costs; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends or other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Tax Risks Our business and our sellers and buyers may be subject to evolving sales and other tax regimes in various jurisdictions, which may harm our business. The application of indirect taxes such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax (GST) (including the digital services tax), business tax, withholding tax and gross receipt tax, and tax information reporting obligations to businesses like ours and to our sellers and buyers is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. Significant judgment is required to evaluate applicable tax obligations and as a result amounts recorded are estimates and are subject to adjustments. In many cases, the ultimate tax determination is uncertain because it is not clear when and how new and existing statutes might apply to our business or to our sellers businesses. In some cases it may be difficult or impossible for us to validate information provided to us by our sellers on which we must rely to ascertain any obligations that may apply to us related to our 26 Table of Contents sellers businesses, given the intricate nature of these regulations as they apply to particular products or services and that many of the products and services sold in our marketplace are unique or handmade. If we are found to be deficient in how we have addressed our tax obligations, our business could be adversely impacted. From time to time, some taxing authorities in the United States have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes imposed on our services. These notifications have not resulted in any significant tax liabilities to date, but there is a risk that some jurisdiction may be successful in the future, which would harm our business. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, some of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees. Additionally, we pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. Various jurisdictions are seeking to, or have recently imposed additional reporting, record-keeping, indirect tax collection and remittance obligations, or revenue-based taxes on businesses like ours that facilitate online commerce. If requirements like these become applicable in additional jurisdictions, our business, collectively with eBay sellers businesses, could be harmed. For example, taxing authorities in the U.S. and in other countries have targeted e-commerce platforms as a means to calculate, collect, and remit indirect taxes for transactions taking place over the internet, and have enacted laws and others are considering similar legislation. To date, 45 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico have enacted Internet sales tax legislation with additional states anticipated to adopt legislation in the coming years. Our business is also required to increase payments reporting requirements for U.S. sellers as a result of federal legislation. All businesses that process payments are now required to issue a Form 1099-K for all sellers who receive more than $600 in net payments in a year, a decrease from the previous reporting threshold of $20,000 and 200 transactions. The IRS recently announced a one-year delay of this rule. As a result, Form 1099-Ks for the new thresholds will be issued beginning in January 2024, subject to potential new federal legislation raising the threshold and/or future IRS action. Tax collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex sales and use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements, or reporting, could create additional burdens for buyers and sellers on our websites and mobile platforms. Moreover, any failure by us to prepare for and comply with this and similar reporting and record-keeping obligations could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions, adversely impact our ability to do business in certain jurisdictions and harm our business. These legislative changes or new legislation could adversely affect our business if the requirement of tax to be charged on items sold on our marketplaces causes our marketplaces to be less attractive to current and prospective buyers, which could materially impact our business and eBay sellers businesses. This legislation could also require us or our sellers to incur substantial costs in order to comply, including costs associated with tax calculation, collection, remittance, and audit requirements, which could make selling on our marketplaces less attractive. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there can be from time to time transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our business structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could harm our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by a shift in our jurisdictional earning mix, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in the valuation of our investments, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. 27 Table of Contents Transactional Risks Acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures, strategic partnerships and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business or impact our financial results. We have acquired a significant number of businesses of varying size and scope, technologies, services, and products, and we maintain investments in certain businesses. We have also disposed of significant businesses. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. These transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, merchants, vendors and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; declining employee morale and retention issues affecting employees of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; difficulty making new and strategic hires of new employees; diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to the transaction, and in the case of an acquisition, integration and administration; the need to provide transition services to a disposed of company, which may result in the diversion of resources and focus; the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise as a result; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies or whose controls, procedures and policies did not meet applicable legal and other standards; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets and new areas of business; derivative lawsuits resulting from the acquisition or disposition; liability for activities of the acquired or disposed of company before the transaction, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities and, in the case of dispositions, liabilities to the acquirers of those businesses under contractual provisions such as representations, warranties and indemnities; the potential loss of key employees following the transaction; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information by us or a third party acquiring assets or businesses from us, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure; any fluctuations in share prices, financial results and fluctuations in exchange rates, and our ability to sell our shares in any company we have invested in; and our dependence on the acquired business accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls and processes will lead to errors in our consolidated financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. We have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and/or lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Any circumstances, which may be out of our control, that adversely affect the value of our investments, or cost resulting from regulatory action or lawsuits in connection with our investments, could harm our business or negatively impact our financial results. We entered into a warrant agreement in conjunction with a commercial agreement with Adyen that entitles us to acquire a fixed number of shares of Adyens common stock subject to certain milestones being met. This warrant 28 Table of Contents is accounted for as a derivative instrument under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging . Changes in Adyens common stock price and equity volatility have had, and may continue to have in the future, a significant impact on the value of this warrant. We report this warrant on a quarterly basis at fair value in our consolidated balance sheets, and changes in the fair value of this warrant are recognized in our consolidated statement of income. Fluctuations in Adyens common stock price and prevailing foreign exchange rate or other changes in assumptions could result in material changes in the fair value that we report in our consolidated balance sheets and our consolidated statement of income, which could have a material impact on our financial results. As a result of a prior transaction, we own a significant number of Adevinta shares, and fluctuations in Adevintas share price, financial results and fluctuations in exchange rates could result in material changes in our consolidated balance sheet and our consolidated statement of income. As described more fully under Note 7 Investments Equity Investments, we recorded significant realized and unrealized losses in each of 2022 and 2021 relating to the change in fair value of these shares. In addition, our ability to sell our Adevinta shares in the future will be subject to market conditions and other factors which could impact the value we are able to realize from any such sales. We could incur significant liability if the Distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that our distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to our stockholders on July 17, 2015 (the Distribution) qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from PayPal and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our stockholders and we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that the Distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the Distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the Distribution. We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with PayPal to govern the Distribution and the relationship of the two companies. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and PayPal. The indemnity rights we have against PayPal under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. In addition, our indemnity obligations to PayPal may be significant and these risks could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 2: PROPERTIES We own and lease various properties in the U.S. and 22 other countries around the world. We use the properties for executive and administrative offices, data centers, product development offices and customer service offices. Our headquarters are located in San Jose, California and occupies approximately 0.5 million square feet. Our owned data centers are solely located in Utah. The following table presents the aggregate square footage of our owned and leased properties for our continuing operations as of December 31, 2022 (in millions): United States Other Countries Total Owned facilities 1.3 1.3 Leased facilities 1.0 0.9 1.9 Total facilities 2.3 0.9 3.2 From time to time we consider various alternatives related to our long-term facilities needs. While we believe that our existing facilities are adequate to meet our immediate needs, it may become necessary to develop and improve land that we own or lease or acquire additional or alternative space to accommodate any future growth. ITEM 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS This information is set forth under Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies Litigation and Other Legal Matters to the consolidated financial statements included in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 30 Table of Contents PART II ITEM 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANTS COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Common Stock Our common stock has been traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol EBAY since September 24, 1998. As of February 21, 2023, there were approximately 3,180 holders of record of our common stock, although we believe that there are a significantly larger number of beneficial owners of our common stock. Dividend Policy The company paid a total of $489 million and $466 million in cash dividends during the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. In February 2023, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock to be paid on March 24, 2023 to stockholders of record as of March 10, 2023. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future cash dividends are at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on many factors, including our available cash, working capital, financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, covenants in our credit agreement, applicable law and other business considerations that our Board of Directors considers relevant. Performance Measurement Comparison The graph below shows the cumulative total stockholder return of an investment of $100 (and the reinvestment of any dividends thereafter) on December 31, 2017 (the last trading day for the year ended December 31, 2017) in (i) our common stock, (ii) the Nasdaq Composite Index, (iii) the S&P 500 Index and (iv) the S&P 500 Information Technology Index. Our stock price performance shown in the graph below is not indicative of future stock price performance. The graph and related information shall not be deemed soliciting material or be deemed to be filed with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any past or future filing with the SEC, except to the extent that such filing specifically states that such graph and related information are incorporated by reference into such filing. 31 Table of Contents Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers The following table presents stock repurchase activity during the three months ended December 31, 2022: Period Ended Total Number of Shares Purchased Average Price Paid per Share (2) Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Programs Maximum Dollar Value that May Yet be Purchased Under the Programs (1) October 31, 2022 2,626,397 $ 38.35 2,626,397 $ 3,047,695,793 November 30, 2022 2,153,284 $ 45.27 488,573 $ 39.47 488,573 $ 2,930,931,584 December 31, 2022 1,884,265 $ 43.98 $ 2,848,055,977 7,152,519 3,114,970 (1) In February 2022 our Board authorized an additional $4.0 billion stock repurchase program. These stock repurchase programs have no expiration from the date of authorization. Our stock repurchase programs are intended to programmatically offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock to reduce our outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions (including accelerated share repurchase transactions) or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. During the three months ended December 31, 2022 we repurchased approximately $0.3 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. As of December 31, 2022, a total of approximately $2.8 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. We expect, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties, to continue making opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our (2) Excludes broker commissions. ITEM 6: [RESERVED] 32 Table of Contents ITEM 7: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, including with respect to the ongoing effects of COVID-19, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility and geopolitical events, such as the ongoing war in Ukraine, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). You can generally identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in our consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021. Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 are not included in this Form 10-K, and can be found in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. OVERVIEW Business eBay Inc., is a global commerce leader, which includes our Marketplace platforms. Founded in 1995 in San Jose, California, eBay is one of the worlds largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. Collectively, we connect millions of buyers and sellers around the world, empowering people and creating opportunity. Our technologies and services are designed to provide buyers choice and a breadth of relevant inventory and to enable sellers worldwide to organize and offer their inventory for sale, virtually anytime and anywhere. In 2022, we focused on our strategic playbook to understand the customer and their needs; build experiences they will love, at scale; and tell our story in new and different ways. In 2020 and extending into 2021, there were changes in consumer behavior that resulted in more online shopping driven by the outbreak of a coronavirus and its variants (COVID-19). Our Marketplace platforms experienced elevated traffic as well as the acquisition of buyers and small sellers due to the impacts of measures taken globally to contain the spread of COVID-19, which were unprecedented and are not expected to recur. In 2022, we also experienced reduced traffic in most markets resulting from geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange rate volatility and lower consumer confidence. These factors negatively impacted discretionary consumer spending, are uncertain in duration and we expect them to continue into 2023. In 2021, we completed the transfer of our Classifieds business to Adevinta ASA (Adevinta), and subsequently completed the sale of 80.01% of the outstanding equity interests of eBay Korea LLC, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Korea and a wholly owned subsidiary of eBay KTA (eBay Korea) to E-mart Inc. and one of its wholly owned subsidiaries (together, Emart). The results of our eBay Korea and Classifieds businesses have been presented as discontinued operations in our consolidated statement of income for all periods presented through the respective transaction close dates as the transactions represented a strategic shift in our business that had a major effect on our operations and financial results. See Note 4 Discontinued Operations in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information. 33 Table of Contents Presentation In addition to the corresponding measures under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. The foreign exchange neutral (FX-Neutral), or constant currency, net revenue amounts discussed below are non-GAAP financial measures and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, the FX-Neutral information appearing in the following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with the information provided below in Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance , which includes reconciliations of FX-Neutral financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. Fiscal Year Highlights Net revenues decreased 6% to $9.8 billion primarily due to a decline in traffic resulting from the normalization of consumer behavior during 2022 compared to the elevated traffic experienced on our Marketplace platforms from the impact of COVID-19 during 2021. Net revenues were also impacted by reduced traffic in most markets resulting from geopolitical and inflationary pressure during 2022 compared to 2021. In addition, net revenues were impacted by a stronger U.S. dollar in 2022 as FX-Neutral net revenues (as defined above) decreased only 4% compared to 2021. Operating margin decreased to 24.0% in 2022 compared to 28.1% in 2021. We generated cash flow from continuing operating activities of $2.6 billion in 2022 compared to $3.1 billion in 2021, ending the year with cash, cash equivalents and non-equity investments of $5.9 billion. In 2022, we received cash proceeds of $1.1 billion in the aggregate from the sales of shares in Adevinta, Adyen and KakaoBank. We recorded realized losses on the change in fair value of shares sold of $216 million in the aggregate in gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net on our consolidated statement of income for 2022. In 2022, we repurchased $3.1 billion of common stock and paid $489 million in cash dividends. In 2022, we repaid debt of $1.4 billion consisting of the 2.600% and 3.800% senior notes. In October 2022, we completed the acquisition of TCGplayer for $228 million. TCGplayer is a trusted marketplace offering more selection for collectible card game enthusiasts. In November 2022, we issued senior notes of $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount, which consisted of $425 million of 5.900% fixed rate notes due 2025, $300 million of 5.950% fixed rate notes due to 2027 and $425 million of 6.300% fixed rate notes due 2032. In January 2023, we repaid debt of $1.2 billion consisting of the floating rate and 2.750% senior notes. In February 2023, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock to be paid on March 24, 2023 to stockholders of record as of March 10, 2023. 34 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have one reportable segment to reflect the way management and our chief operating decision maker (CODM) review and assess performance of the business. Our reportable segment is Marketplace, which includes our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com, its localized counterparts and the eBay suite of mobile apps. The accounting policies of our segment are the same as those described in Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Net Revenues Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2022, we present revenues generated from our Marketplace GMV and from non-GMV based businesses as Net revenues in order to more closely align our presentation of net revenues with how our business is operated. We formerly presented such amounts as Net transaction revenues and Marketing services and other (MS&O) revenues, and those line items for such prior periods have been conformed to current period presentation. Consolidated net revenues are unchanged. Net revenues primarily include final value fees and feature fees, which include fees to promote listings and listing fees from sellers on our platforms. Our net revenues also include store subscription and other fees often from large enterprise sellers as well as revenues from the sale of advertisements and revenue sharing arrangements. Our net revenues are reduced by incentives, including discounts, coupons and rewards, provided to our customers. The following table presents net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 % Change 2021 % Change 2020 Net revenues $ 9,795 (6) % $ 10,420 17 % $ 8,894 Seasonality We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to trend with general consumer buying patterns and expect that these trends will continue. As we introduce new products and platforms, such as managed payments which was completed by the end of 2021, we expect net revenues to fluctuate. In addition, macroeconomic conditions, including the impact of COVID-19, disrupted seasonal patterns in net revenues, particularly in the second quarter of 2020 and in the first quarter of 2021. The following table presents our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly movements of these net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 2020 Net revenues $ 1,821 $ 2,337 $ 2,258 $ 2,478 % change from prior quarter (4) % 28 % (3) % 10 % 2021 Net revenues $ 2,638 $ 2,668 $ 2,501 $ 2,613 % change from prior quarter 6 % 1 % (6) % 4 % 2022 Net revenues $ 2,483 $ 2,422 $ 2,380 $ 2,510 % change from prior quarter (5) % (2) % (2) % 5 % 35 Table of Contents Net Revenues by Geography Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies primarily based upon the country in which the seller, platform that displays advertising, other service provider or customer, as the case may be, is located. The following table presents net revenues by geography for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 % Change 2021 % Change 2020 U.S. $ 4,842 (4) % 5,048 22 % $ 4,151 % of net revenues 49 % 48 % 47 % International 4,953 (8) % 5,372 13 % 4,743 % of net revenues 51 % 52 % 53 % Total net revenues $ 9,795 (6) % $ 10,420 17 % $ 8,894 Our commerce platforms operate globally, resulting in certain revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the British pound and euro. The recent appreciation of the U.S. dollar may have a material impact to our financial results, and we have seen and could continue to see elevated foreign currency volatility in the future. Through our hedging programs, we actively monitor foreign currency volatility and attempt to mitigate the risk. As shown in the table above, we generate approximately half of our net revenues internationally. Because of these factors, we are subject to the risks related to doing business in foreign countries as discussed under Item 1A: Risk Factors in Part I of this report. Net revenues included $140 million of hedging gains during 2022, $65 million of hedging losses during 2021 and $15 million of hedging gains during 2020. Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact of $320 million on net revenues in 2022 and a favorable impact of $188 million and $26 million on net revenues in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily attributable to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the British pound and euro. Key Operating Metrics Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) and take rate are significant factors that we believe affect our net revenues. GMV consists of the total value of all paid transactions between users on our platforms during the applicable period inclusive of shipping fees and taxes. Despite GMVs divergence from revenue, we still believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of paid transactions that flow through our platforms in a given period. Take rate is defined as net revenues divided by GMV and represents net revenue as a percentage of overall volume on our platforms. We believe that take rate provides a useful measure of our ability to monetize volume through marketplace services on our platforms in a given period. We use take rate to identify key revenue drivers on our marketplace. 36 Table of Contents The following table presents net revenues, GMV and take rate for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, % Change Year Ended December 31, % Change 2022 2021 As Reported FX-Neutral 2021 2020 As Reported FX-Neutral Net revenues (1) $ 9,795 $ 10,420 (6) % (4) % $ 10,420 $ 8,894 17 % 15 % Supplemental data: GMV (2) $ 73,900 $ 87,365 (15) % (11) % $ 87,365 $ 87,608 % (3) % Take rate (3) 13.25 % 11.93 % 1.32 % 11.93 % 10.15 % 1.78 % (1) Marketplace net revenues were net of $140 million, $65 million and $15 million hedging activity during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 respectively. (2) GMV has been retrospectively recast to reflect the new definition of GMV announced in December 2021. (3) Take rate is defined as net revenues divided by GMV, as discussed above. Net revenues and GMV decreased across major categories primarily due to a decline in traffic resulting from the normalization of consumer behavior during 2022 compared to the elevated traffic experienced on our Marketplace platforms from the impact of COVID-19 during 2021. Net revenues were also impacted by reduced traffic in most markets resulting from geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, foreign exchange volatility and lower consumer confidence, which negatively impacted discretionary consumer spending during 2022 compared to 2021. The decrease in net revenues was partially offset by a higher take rate during 2022 compared to 2021 as a result of revenue initiatives such as global payments and promoted listings. Net revenues decreased at a lower rate than GMV during 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to the benefit of a higher take rate during the same periods, as discussed above. We expect the divergence between net revenues and GMV to continue to a lesser extent into 2023. Despite GMVs divergence from net revenues, we still believe the metric provides a useful measure of overall volume of paid transactions that flow through the platform in a given period. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues represents costs associated with customer support, site operations and payment processing. Significant components of these costs primarily consist of employee compensation including stock-based compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense, bank transaction fees, credit card interchange and assessment fees, authentication costs and digital services tax. The following table presents cost of net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 % Change 2021 % Change 2020 Cost of net revenues $ 2,680 1 % $ 2,650 47 % $ 1,797 % of net revenues 27 % 25 % 20 % Cost of net revenues, net of immaterial hedging activities, was favorably impacted by $113 million attributable to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar in 2022 compared to 2021. The increase in cost of net revenues in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to higher payment processing costs incurred for managed payments, partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency movements described above. 37 Table of Contents Operating Expenses The following table presents operating expenses for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 % Change 2021 % Change 2020 Sales and marketing $ 2,136 (2) % $ 2,170 4 % $ 2,091 % of net revenues 22 % 21 % 24 % Product development 1,330 0 % 1,325 29 % 1,028 % of net revenues 14 % 13 % 12 % General and administrative 963 5 % 921 (6) % 985 % of net revenues 10 % 9 % 11 % Provision for transaction losses 332 (21) % 422 28 % 330 % of net revenues 3 % 4 % 4 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 4 (56) % 9 (67) % 27 Total operating expenses $ 4,765 (2) % $ 4,847 9 % $ 4,461 Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of $274 million on operating expenses in 2022 compared to 2021. There was no hedging activity within operating expenses. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and marketing program costs (both online and offline), employee compensation including stock-based compensation, certain user coupons and rewards, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising primarily includes brand campaigns and buyer/seller communications. The decrease in sales and marketing expenses in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency movements of $180 million and a decrease in certain user coupons and rewards of $27 million, partially offset by an increase in online and offline advertising expense of $178 million. Product Development Product development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation including stock-based compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major platform and other product development efforts, including the development and maintenance of our technology platform. Our top technology priorities include payment intermediation capabilities, products to grow the seller tools ecosystem and product experiences that delight our customers and enhance the buying experience for our enthusiasts. Product development expenses were flat in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to an increase in employee related costs of $36 million offset by the favorable impact of foreign currency movements of $31 million. Capitalized internal use and platform development costs were $130 million and $127 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. These costs are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation including stock-based compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. 38 Table of Contents The decrease in general and administrative expenses in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign currency movements of $42 million and restructuring costs of $33 million that did not occur in 2022, partially offset by a charge relating to legal contingencies of $50 million, charitable contributions of $35 million, one-time transaction support costs of $20 million and exit costs of $13 million related to the announcement to close our marketplace in Turkey. Provision for Transaction Losses Provision for transaction losses primarily consists of transaction loss expense associated with our buyer protection programs, losses from our managed payments services, fraud and bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance. We expect our provision for transaction losses to fluctuate depending on many factors, including changes to our protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. The decrease in provision for transaction losses in 2022 compared to the same period in 2021 was primarily due to lower bad debt expense and losses as a result of fees collected through the managed payments platform of $52 million, the favorable impact of foreign currency movements of $21 million and lower customer protection program costs of $16 million. 39 Table of Contents Gain (Loss) on Equity Investments and Warrant, Net Gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net primarily consists of gains and losses related to our various types of equity investments, including our equity investments in Adevinta, KakaoBank and Gmarket, and gains and losses due to changes in fair value of the warrant received from Adyen. The following table presents gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 % Change 2021 % Change 2020 Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in Adevinta $ (2,693) (12) % $ (3,070) ** $ Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in Adyen (118) ** (10) ** Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in Gmarket (294) ** (3) ** Unrealized change in fair value of equity investment in KakaoBank (218) (154) % 403 69 % 239 Change in fair value of warrant (230) (165) % 354 (54) % 770 Realized change in fair value of shares sold in Adevinta (1) 2 (78) % 9 ** Realized change in fair value of shares sold in Adyen (143) ** ** Realized change in fair value of shares sold in KakaoBank (75) (190) % 83 ** Impairment of equity investment in Paytm Mall ** (160) ** Gain (loss) on other investments (2) (17) (159) % 29 ** (2) Total gain (loss) on equity investments and warrant, net $ (3,786) ** $ (2,365) ** $ 1,007 (1) Gain (loss) on sale of shares in Adevinta included: (i) in 2022, a $2 million gain on the change in fair value of shares sold; (ii) in 2021, an $88 million gain recognized on the sale of the shares offset by a $79 million loss on the change in fair value of the shares sold. (2) Gain (loss) on other investments primarily included: (i) in 2022, primarily downward adjustments of $13 million recorded on equity investments under the fair value option and $7 million recorded on equity investments without readily determinable fair values; (ii) in 2021, primarily a $41 million upward adjustment and a $10 million impairment recorded on equity investments without readily determinable fair values; (iii) in 2020, primarily a $40 million impairment recorded on an investment and a $37 million gain for the receipt of proceeds that were held in escrow related to a long-term investment that was sold in 2018. ** Not meaningful The increase in total losses on equity method investments and warrant, net in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily driven by a $158 million and $621 million increase in realized and unrealized losses, respectively, recorded related to the change in fair value of our equity investment in KakaoBank, a $584 million increase in the loss recorded related to the change in fair value of the Adyen warrant, and a $291 million increase in the loss recorded related to the change in fair value of our equity investment in Gmarket, partially offset by a $377 million decrease in the unrealized loss recorded related to the change in fair value of our equity investment in Adevinta. 40 Table of Contents Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and available-for-sale investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses and interest expense, consisting of interest charges on any amounts borrowed and commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, if any. The following table presents interest and other, net for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 % Change 2021 % Change 2020 Interest income $ 73 284 % $ 19 (50) % $ 38 Interest expense (235) (13) % (269) (12) % (304) Foreign exchange and other (3) (103) % 90 ** (32) Total interest and other, net $ (165) 3 % $ (160) (46) % $ (298) ** Not meaningful Interest income increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to higher yields on corporate debt and government agency securities in a higher interest rate environment. We expect this trend to continue into 2023. Interest expense decreased in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to a higher average notional on outstanding debt during 2021 to fund early 2022 maturities. In 2022, we repaid two tranches of senior notes at substantially lower interest rates than the senior notes that were issued during the year. As a result, we expect continued upward pressure on interest expense to continue into 2023. Foreign exchange and other decreased in 2022 compared to 2021, primarily due to a gain on a foreign exchange rate hedging program in 2021 that did not recur in 2022. Income Tax Provision The following table presents provision for income taxes for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Income tax provision (benefit) $ (327) $ 146 $ 858 Effective tax rate 20.4 % 36.6 % 25.6 % The decrease in our effective tax rate in 2022 compared to 2021 was primarily due to the decrease in proportion of non-deductible losses on investments to total income (loss) from continuing operations before taxes, partially offset by a benefit from the release of a valuation allowance in 2021. The effective tax rate in 2020 included the effects of a retroactive California law change including incremental taxes on the gain on the sale of StubHub, partially offset by an increased tax benefit from stock-based compensation. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we cannot assure you that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, it is generally impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. However, we expect several tax examinations to close within the next twelve months. See Note 16 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on estimated settlements within the next twelve months. Discontinued Operations In 2021, we completed the transfer of our Classifieds business to Adevinta ASA (Adevinta), and subsequently completed the sale of 80.01% of the outstanding equity interests of eBay Korea LLC, a limited liability 41 Table of Contents company incorporated under the laws of Korea and a wholly owned subsidiary of eBay KTA (eBay Korea) to E-mart Inc. and one of its wholly owned subsidiaries (together, Emart). The results of our eBay Korea and Classifieds businesses have been presented as discontinued operations in our consolidated statement of income for all periods presented through the respective transaction close dates as the transactions represented a strategic shift in our business that had a major effect on our operations and financial results. See Note 4 Discontinued Operations in our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information. Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance To supplement our consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we use FX-Neutral net revenues, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. We define FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect. We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors overall understanding of our current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign currency exchange rate impact that may not be indicative of our core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, we believe that the inclusion of these non-GAAP measures provide consistency in our financial reporting. The following tables present a reconciliation of FX-Neutral GMV and FX-Neutral net revenues (each as defined below) to our reported GMV and net revenues for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1)(3) FX-Neutral (2) As Reported (4) As Reported FX-Neutral GMV $ 73,900 $ (3,840) $ 77,740 $ 87,365 (15) % (11) % Net Revenues $ 9,795 $ (320) $ 10,115 $ 10,420 (6) % (4) % Year Ended Year Ended December 31, 2021 2020 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1)(3) FX-Neutral (2) As Reported (4) As Reported FX-Neutral GMV $ 87,365 $ 2,362 $ 85,003 $ 87,608 % (3) % Net Revenues $ 10,420 $ 188 $ 10,232 $ 8,894 17 % 15 % (1) We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity. (2) We define FX-Neutral GMV as GMV minus the exchange rate effect. We define the non-GAAP financial measures of FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect. (3) Net revenues were net of $140 million, $65 million and $15 million of hedging activity in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (4) GMV for 2021 and 2020 has been retrospectively recast to reflect the new definition of GMV announced in December 2021. 42 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Continuing operating activities $ 2,627 $ 3,093 $ 3,004 Continuing investing activities 2,459 (1,417) (179) Continuing financing activities (3,792) (6,557) (5,680) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (57) 24 77 Net increase in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash - discontinued operations (371) 4,669 3,376 Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ 866 $ (188) $ 598 Continuing Operating Activities Our operating cash flows arise primarily from cash received from our customers on our platforms offset by cash payments for sales and marketing, employee compensation and payment processing expenses. Cash provided by continuing operating activities of $2.6 billion in 2022 compared to $3.1 billion in 2021 was primarily attributable to a decrease in operating income from continuing operations of $573 million. The decrease in operating income was driven by a decrease in net revenues during 2022 compared to the elevated traffic from the impact of COVID-19 during the same period in 2021, as noted in our comments on Net Revenues. The remaining changes in continuing operating cash flows are attributable to working capital movements and changes in non-cash items. Continuing Investing Activities Cash provided by continuing investing activities of $2.5 billion in 2022 was primarily attributable to proceeds of $20.6 billion from the maturities and sales of investments and proceeds of $1.1 billion in the aggregate from the sales of shares in Adevinta, Adyen and KakaoBank, partially offset by cash paid for investments of $18.5 billion, property and equipment of $449 million and cash paid for the acquisition of TCGplayer of $208 million. Cash used in investing activities of $1.4 billion in 2021 was primarily attributable to purchases of investments of $22.2 billion and property and equipment of $444 million. These purchases were partially offset by proceeds of $18.9 billion from the maturities and sales of investments and $2.3 billion from the sale of approximately 135 million of our voting shares in Adevinta. The largely offsetting effects of purchases of investments and maturities and sale of investments results from the management of our investments. As our immediate cash needs change, purchase and sale activity will fluctuate. Continuing Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities of $3.8 billion in 2022 was primarily driven by common stock repurchases of $3.1 billion, debt repayments of $1.4 billion, which was comprised of $750 million related to our 3.800% senior fixed rate notes due 2022 and $605 million related to our 2.600% senior fixed rate notes due 2022, and $489 million of cash dividends paid, partially offset by proceeds from debt issuances of $1.2 billion. Cash used in financing activities of $6.6 billion in 2021 was primarily driven by common stock repurchases of $7.1 billion, of which $2.5 billion related to repurchases under an accelerated share repurchase program. Cash used in financing activities also included debt repayments of $1.2 billion, which was comprised of $750 million related to our 6.000% senior fixed rate notes due 2056 that were redeemed and $405 million related to our 2.600% senior fixed rate notes due 2022 that were repurchased pursuant to a tender offer, and $466 million of cash dividends paid, partially offset by proceeds from debt issuances of $2.5 billion. 43 Table of Contents The negative and positive effect of exchange rate movements on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash was due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the British pound and euro, during 2022 and 2021, respectively. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments from continuing operations, in an aggregate amount of $5.9 billion and $7.3 billion, respectively. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to satisfy our material cash requirements over the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future. However, geopolitical and macroeconomic events including the impact of COVID-19, the war in Ukraine, foreign exchange volatility and global economic uncertainty have caused material disruptions in both U.S. and international financial markets and economies and are uncertain in duration. The future impact of these events cannot be predicted with certainty and have increased our borrowing costs and other costs of capital and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and we cannot assure that we will have access to external financing at times and on terms we consider acceptable, or at all, or that we will not experience other liquidity issues going forward. Senior Notes As of December 31, 2022, we had floating- and fixed-rate senior notes outstanding with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $8.9 billion, with $1.2 billion payable within 12 months. Future interest payments associated with the senior notes totaled $2.6 billion, with $0.3 billion payable within 12 months. The net proceeds from the issuances of these senior notes are used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, capital expenditures, share repurchases, repayment of indebtedness and possible acquisitions. During 2022, we redeemed the $1.4 billion aggregate principal amount of the 2.600% and 3.800% senior notes due 2022. Total cash consideration paid was $1.4 billion, as the redemption price was equal to 100% of the principal amount. In addition, we paid accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount. In November 2022, we issued senior notes of $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount, which consisted of $425 million of 5.900% fixed rate notes due 2025, $300 million of 5.950% fixed rate notes due to 2027 and $425 million of 6.300% fixed rate notes due 2032. In January 2023, we redeemed the $1.2 billion aggregate principal amount of the floating rate and 2.750% senior notes due 2023. Total cash consideration paid was $1.2 billion , as the redemption price was equal to 100% of the principal amount. Commercial Paper We have a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes in an aggregate principal amount at maturity of up to $1.5 billion outstanding at any time with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. As of December 31, 2022, there were no commercial paper notes outstanding. Credit Agreement In March 2020, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for an unsecured $2 billion five-year credit facility. We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $1 billion. Funds borrowed under the credit agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2022, no borrowings were outstanding under our $2 billion credit agreement. 44 Table of Contents Credit Ratings As of December 31, 2022, we were rated investment grade by Standard and Poors Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook) and Moodys Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings will likely increase our borrowing costs. We were in compliance with all financial covenants in our outstanding debt instruments for the period ended December 31, 2022. For additional details related to our debt, please see Note 11 Debt to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Leases We have operating leases for office space, data centers, as well as other corporate assets that we utilize under lease arrangements. As of December 31, 2022, we had fixed lease payment obligations of $695 million, with $149 million payable within 12 months. For additional details related to our leases, please see Note 12 Leases to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. Purchase Obligations Purchase obligation amounts include minimum purchase commitments for advertising, capital expenditures (computer equipment, software applications, engineering development services, construction contracts) and other goods and services entered into in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2022, we had purchase obligations of $164 million, with $117 million payable within 12 months. Income Taxes We are unable to reasonably predict the timing of settlement of liabilities related to unrecognized tax benefits of $331 million included in other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2022. The timing of the resolution and/or closure of audits is highly uncertain, and it is reasonably possible that the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits could significantly change in the next 12 months. However, given the number of years remaining subject to examination and the number of matters being examined, we are unable to estimate the full range of possible adjustments to the balance of gross unrecognized tax benefits. As of December 31, 2022, our assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, and short-term and long-term non-equity investments from continuing operations included assets held in certain of our foreign operations totaling approximately $2.1 billion. As we repatriate these funds to the U.S., we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes on those amounts during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have accrued deferred taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the U.S. See Note 16 Income Taxes to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information on unrecognized tax benefits and deferred taxes. Stock Repurchases Our stock repurchase programs are intended to programmatically offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock to reduce our outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. We expect, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties, to continue making opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. 45 Table of Contents During 2022, we repurchased approximately $3.1 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. In February 2022 our Board authorized an additional $4.0 billion stock repurchase program, with no expiration from the date of authorization. As of December 31, 2022, a total of approximately $2.8 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. See Note 14 Stockholders Equity to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information about our stock repurchase programs. Dividends The company paid a total of $489 million and $466 million in cash dividends in 2022 and 2021, respectively. In February 2023, we declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock to be paid on March 24, 2023 to stockholders of record as of March 10, 2023. Other Capital Resource Requirements We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, including, without limitation, as a result of the impact of geopolitical events, inflationary pressure, lower consumer spending and foreign exchange rate volatility. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions. We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. As of December 31, 2022, we had a total of $246 million in aggregate cash deposits, partially offset by $32 million in cash withdrawals, held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement. See Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information about our cash pooling arrangement. We have entered into various indemnification agreements and, in the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these various indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively. See Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in this report for more information about our indemnification provisions. 46 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates General The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. The following descriptions of critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes and other disclosures included in this report. Revenue Recognition We may enter into certain revenue contracts that include promises to transfer multiple goods or services including discounts on future services. We also may enter into arrangements to purchase services from certain customers. As a result, significant interpretation and judgment is sometimes required to determine the appropriate accounting for these transactions including: (1) whether services are considered distinct performance obligations that should be accounted for separately or combined; (2) developing an estimate of the stand-alone selling price of each distinct performance obligation; (3) whether revenue should be reported gross (as eBay is acting as a principal), or net (as eBay is acting as an agent); (4) evaluating whether a promotion or incentive is a payment to a customer; and (5) whether the arrangement would be characterized as revenue or reimbursement of costs incurred. Changes in judgments with respect to these assumptions and estimates could impact the timing or amount of revenue recognition. Income Taxes Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective government taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties and the complexity of taxes on foreign earnings. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. Tax positions are evaluated for potential reserves for uncertainty based on the estimated probability of sustaining the position under examination. Our income tax rate is affected by the tax rates that apply to our foreign earnings including U.S. minimum taxes on foreign earnings. The deferred tax benefit derived from the amortization of our intellectual property is based on the fair value, which has been agreed with foreign tax authorities. The deferred tax benefit may from time to time change based on changes in tax rates. Management has no specific plans to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates that are based on a number of factors, including our historical experience and short-range and long-range business forecasts. As of December 31, 2022, we had a valuation allowance on certain net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards based on our assessment that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized. 47 Table of Contents We recognize and measure uncertain tax positions in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S., or GAAP, pursuant to which we only recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are then measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We report a liability for unrecognized tax benefits resulting from uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. GAAP further requires that a change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions be recognized in earnings in the quarter in which such change occurs. We recognize interest and penalties, if any, related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We file annual income tax returns in multiple taxing jurisdictions around the world. A number of years may elapse before an uncertain tax position is audited by the relevant tax authorities and finally resolved. While it is often difficult to predict the final outcome or the timing of resolution of any particular uncertain tax position, we believe that our reserves for income taxes reflect the most likely outcome. We adjust these reserves, as well as the related interest, where appropriate in light of changing facts and circumstances. Settlement of any particular position could require the use of cash. The following table presents our effective tax rates for the periods indicated (in millions, except percentages): Year Ended December 31, 2022 2021 2020 Income tax provision (benefit) $ (327) $ 146 $ 858 Effective tax rate 20.4 % 36.6 % 25.6 % Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes or interpretations in tax laws, regulations or accounting principles. In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service, as well as various state and foreign tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Based on our results for the year ended December 31, 2022, a one-percentage point change in our provision for income taxes as a percentage of income before taxes would have resulted in an increase or decrease in the provision of approximately $16 million, resulting in an approximate $0.03 change in diluted earnings per share. Goodwill The purchase price of an acquired company is allocated between intangible assets and the net tangible assets of the acquired business with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill. As of December 31, 2022, our goodwill totaled $4.3 billion. We assess the impairment of goodwill of our reporting unit annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If the reporting unit does not pass the qualitative assessment, then the reporting units carrying value is compared to its fair value. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using market and discounted cash flow approaches. Goodwill is considered impaired if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. The discounted cash flow approach uses expected future operating results. The market approach uses comparable company information to determine revenue and earnings multiples to value our reporting unit. Failure to achieve these expected results or market multiples may cause a future impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit. We conducted our annual impairment test of goodwill as of August 31, 2022 and 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we determined that no impairment of the carrying value of goodwill was required. See Note 5 Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. 48 Table of Contents Legal Contingencies In connection with certain pending litigation and other claims, we have estimated the range of probable loss, net of expected recoveries, and provided for such losses through charges to our consolidated statement of income. These estimates have been based on our assessment of the facts and circumstances at each balance sheet date and are subject to change based upon new information and future events. From time to time, we are involved in disputes and regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. We are currently involved in legal proceedings, some of which are discussed in Item 1A: Risk Factors, Item 3: Legal Proceedings and Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in this report. We believe that we have meritorious defenses to the claims against us, and we intend to defend ourselves vigorously. However, even if successful, our defense against certain actions will be costly and could require significant amounts of managements time and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. If the plaintiffs were to prevail on certain claims, we might be forced to pay significant damages and licensing fees, modify our business practices or even be prohibited from conducting a significant part of our business. Any such results could materially harm our business and could result in a material adverse impact on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See "Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the consolidated financial statements included in this report, regarding the impact of certain recent accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements. 49 Table of Contents