Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part II Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in our condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. When we refer to we, our, us or eBay in this document, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries. Overview We are a global technology company that enables commerce through three reportable business segments: Marketplaces, Payments and GSI. Our Marketplaces segment includes our eBay.com platform and its localized counterparts and our other online trading platforms, such as our online classifieds sites and StubHub. Our Payments segment is comprised of PayPal, Bill Me Later and Zong. Our GSI segment consists of GSI Commerce, Inc. ("GSI"), which we acquired in the second quarter of 2011. Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 increased 14% to $3.7 billion compared to the same period of the prior year, driven primarily by increases in net revenues from our Marketplaces and Payments segments. For the three months ended March 31, 2013 , our operating margin increased to 21% from 20% in the same period of the prior year due primarily to an increase in operating margin in our Marketplaces segment offset in part by declines in operating margins in our Payments and GSI segments. For the three months ended March 31, 2013 , our diluted earnings per share increased to $0.51 , a $0.07 increase compared to the same period of the prior year, driven primarily by growth in net revenues and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by higher interest expense. For the three months ended March 31, 2013 , we generated cash flow from operations of $937 million , compared to $531 million for the same period of the prior year. Our Marketplaces segment total net revenues increased $229 million , or 13% , for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in total net revenues was driven primarily by an increase in GMV (as defined below) excluding vehicles of 13% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, which was attributable to strong growth in the U.S. as well as in our advertising business. Our Marketplaces segment operating margin increased 3.3 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to efficiencies in marketing spend, partially offset by continued investments in new initiatives. Our Payments segment total net revenues increased $239 million , or 18% , for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in total net revenues was driven primarily by an increase in net TPV (as defined below) of 21% for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year and strong growth in Bill Me Later. Our Payments segment operating margin decreased 2.2 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to a decrease in foreign currency gains, a shift to large merchants with lower take rates and investments in consumer awareness and product initiatives. 23 Our GSI segment total net revenues decreased $1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. Our GSI segment operating margin decreased 6.7 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to a lower take rate on GeC Merchandise Sales (as defined below) as well as continued investment in our commerce platform. Some key operating metrics that members of our senior management regularly review to evaluate our financial results include net promoter score (NPS), market share, GMV, GMV excluding vehicles, number of sold items, net TPV, Merchant Services net TPV (as defined below), on eBay net TPV (as defined below), net number of payments, penetration rates, active registered accounts, funding mix (the mix of payments vehicles, such as credit cards, debit cards, bank accounts, Bill Me Later accounts and PayPal accounts, used by customers to make payments through our Payments networks), global ecommerce (GeC) Merchandise Sales, same store sales, enabled commerce volume (ECV), free cash flow (a non-GAAP measure, which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment) and revenue excluding acquisitions and foreign currency impact (also a non-GAAP measure). We define GMV as the total value of all successfully closed items between users on our Marketplaces trading platforms (excluding eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com) during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. We define net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks, Bill Me Later accounts and Zong during the applicable period, excluding PayPal's payment gateway business. We define Merchant Services net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks, Bill Me Later accounts and Zong during the applicable period, excluding PayPal's payment gateway business and payments for transactions on our Marketplaces and GSI platforms. We define on eBay net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks and Bill Me Later accounts during the applicable period for transactions on our Marketplaces and GSI platforms. We define GeC Merchandise Sales as the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through the GSI ecommerce services platform during the applicable period, whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee. We define ECV as the total commerce and payment volume across all three segments consisting of GMV, Merchant Services net TPV and GeC Merchandise Sales. Results of Operations Summary of Net Revenues We generate two types of net revenues: net transaction revenues and marketing services and other revenues. Our net transaction revenues are derived principally from listing fees, final value fees (which are fees payable on transactions completed on our Marketplaces trading platforms), fees paid by merchants for payment processing services and ecommerce service fees. Our marketing services revenues are derived principally from the sale of advertisements, revenue sharing arrangements, classifieds fees, marketing service fees and lead referral fees. Other revenues are derived principally from interest and fees earned on the Bill Me Later portfolio of receivables from loans, interest earned on certain PayPal customer account balances and fees from contractual arrangements with third parties that provide services to our users. 24 The following table sets forth the breakdown of net revenues by type and geography for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (In millions, except percentage changes) Net Revenues by Type: Net transaction revenues Marketplaces $ 1,608 $ 1,425 Payments 1,435 1,216 GSI 186 182 Total net transaction revenues 3,229 2,823 Marketing services and other revenues Marketplaces 349 303 Payments 113 93 GSI 50 55 Corporate and other 12 6 Total marketing services and other revenues 524 457 Elimination of inter-segment net revenue (1) (5 ) (3 ) Total net revenues $ 3,748 $ 3,277 Net Revenues by Geography: U.S. $ 1,789 $ 1,581 International 1,959 1,696 Total net revenues $ 3,748 $ 3,277 (1) Represents revenue generated between our reportable segments. Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies based primarily upon the country in which the seller, payment recipient, customer, website that displays advertising, or other service provider, as the case may be, is located. Because we generated a majority of our net revenues internationally in recent periods, including the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012, we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries as discussed under "Part II - Item 1A - Risk Factors." In that regard, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our results of operations. We have a foreign exchange risk management program that is designed to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies; however, the effectiveness of this program in mitigating the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations varies from period to period, and in any given period, our operating results are usually affected, sometimes significantly, by changes in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates also directly affect our cross-border revenue. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on our business using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. For the three months ended March 31, 2013 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net revenues by approximately $1 million (net of a positive impact from hedging activities included in PayPal's net revenue of less than $1 million) compared to the same period of the prior year. On a business segment basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2013 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted Marketplaces net revenues by approximately $2 million and negatively impacted Payments and GSI net revenues by approximately $3 million and less than $1 million, respectively, in each case compared to the same period of the prior year (net of the impact of hedging activities noted above, in the case of Payments net revenues). 25 The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, certain key operating metrics that we believe are significant factors affecting our net revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, Percent 2013 2012 Change (In millions, except percentage changes) Supplemental Operating Data: Marketplaces Segment: (1) GMV excluding vehicles (2) $ 18,326 $ 16,206 13 % GMV vehicles only (3) $ 1,686 $ 1,871 (10 )% Total GMV (4) $ 20,012 $ 18,077 11 % Payments Segment: Merchant services net TPV (5) $ 28,087 $ 22,433 25 % On eBay net TPV (6) $ 12,953 $ 11,424 13 % Total net TPV (7) $ 41,040 $ 33,857 21 % GSI Segment: GeC Merchandise Sales (8) $ 807 $ 715 13 % (1) eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com are not included in these metrics. (2) Total value of all successfully closed items between users on our Marketplaces trading platforms during the period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction, excluding vehicles GMV. (3) Total value of all successfully closed vehicle transactions between users on our Marketplaces trading platforms during the period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. (4) Total value of all successfully closed items between users on our Marketplaces trading platforms during the period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. (5) Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks, Bill Me Later accounts and Zong during the period, excluding PayPal's payment gateway business and payments for transactions on our Marketplaces and GSI platforms. (6) Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks and Bill Me Later accounts during the period for transactions on our Marketplaces and GSI platforms. (7) Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks, Bill Me Later accounts and Zong during the period, excluding PayPal's payment gateway business. (8) Represents the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through the GSI ecommerce services platform during the period, whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee. 26 Seasonality The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly movements of these net revenues: Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 (In millions, except percentage changes) 2011 (1) Net revenues $ 2,546 $ 2,760 $ 2,966 $ 3,380 Percent change from prior quarter 2 % 8 % 7 % 14 % 2012 Net revenues $ 3,277 $ 3,398 $ 3,404 $ 3,992 Percent change from prior quarter (3 )% 4 % % 17 % 2013 Net revenues $ 3,748 Percent change from prior quarter (6 )% (1) Net revenues attributable to the GSI segment are reflected from June 17, 2011 (the date the acquisition of GSI was completed). We expect transaction activity patterns on our websites to mirror general consumer buying patterns. Our GSI segment is highly seasonal. The fourth calendar quarter typically accounts for a disproportionate amount of GSI's total annual revenue because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers during the fourth quarter holiday season. Marketplaces Net Transaction Revenues Marketplaces net transaction revenues increased $183 million , or 13% , consistent with the increase in GMV excluding vehicles of 13% , in each case during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in net transaction revenue and GMV excluding vehicles was due primarily to growth both in the U.S. and internationally. Marketplaces net transaction revenues earned internationally (i.e., outside the U.S.) totaled $888 million during the first quarter of 2013 , representing 55% of total Marketplaces net transaction revenues during the period. Marketplaces net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $789 million during the first quarter of 2012 , representing 55% of total Marketplaces net transaction revenues in the period. The increase in international net transaction revenues was due primarily to growth in our existing international markets. Payments Net Transaction Revenues Payments net transaction revenues increased $219 million , or 18% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to net TPV growth of 21% , partially offset by a lower take rate. The increase in net TPV was due primarily to growth in consumer and merchant use of PayPal both on and off eBay. The lower take rate is due primarily to a decrease in currency hedging gains and a shift to larger merchants who pay lower rates based on volume. Our Merchant Services net TPV increased 25% during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year and represented 68% of PayPal's net TPV in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 66% in the same period of the prior year. On eBay net TPV increased 13% during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year and represented 32% of PayPal's net TPV in the first quarter of 2013 compared to 34% for the same period in the prior year. Payments net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $791 million during the first quarter of 2013 , representing 55% of total Payments net transaction revenues in the period. Payments net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $658 million during the first quarter of 2012 , representing 54% of total Payments net transaction revenues during the period. The increase in international net transaction revenues was due primarily to the growth of our Merchant Services business outside the U.S. 27 GSI Net Transaction Revenues GSI net transaction revenues increased $4 million , or 2% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to the 13% increase in GeC Merchandise Sales, offset by a lower take rate. Marketing Services and Other Revenues Marketing services and other revenues increased $67 million , or 15% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, and represented 14% of total net revenues for both the first quarter of 2013 and 2012, respectively. The increase in marketing services and other revenues was due primarily to growth in our Bill Me Later portfolio of receivables from loans, as well as increased revenue from our advertising business and lead referral fees. Summary of Cost of Net Revenues The following table summarizes changes in cost of net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change from First Quarter 2012 to First Quarter 2013 2013 2012 in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentages) Cost of net revenues: Marketplaces $ 356 $ 299 $ 57 19 % As a percentage of total Marketplaces net revenues 18.2 % 17.3 % Payments 617 515 102 20 % As a percentage of total Payments net revenues 39.9 % 39.3 % GSI 175 145 30 21 % As a percentage of total GSI net revenues 74.2 % 61.2 % Corporate and other 4 24 (20 ) (83 )% Total cost of net revenues $ 1,152 $ 983 $ 169 17 % As a percentage of net revenues 30.7 % 30.0 % Cost of net revenues consists primarily of costs associated with payment processing, interest expense on borrowings incurred to finance Bill Me Later's portfolio of loan receivables, customer support, site operations and fulfillment. Significant components of these costs include bank transaction fees, credit card interchange and assessment fees, interest expense on indebtedness incurred to finance the purchase of consumer loan receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts, employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense. Marketplaces Marketplaces cost of net revenues increased $57 million , or 19% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to investment in site operations infrastructure and customer support programs, which resulted in the cost of net revenues as a percentage of Marketplaces net revenues increasing by 0.9 percentage points year over year. Payments Payments cost of net revenues increased $102 million , or 20% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to the impact of growth in net TPV, which resulted in the cost of net revenues as a percentage of Payments net revenues increasing by 0.6 percentage points year over year. 28 GSI GSI cost of net revenues increased $30 million , or 21% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to the increase in GeC merchandise sales volume as well as continued investment in GSI's commerce platform, which resulted in the cost of net revenues as a percentage of GSI net revenues increasing by 13 percentage points year over year. Summary of Operating Expenses, Non-Operating Items and Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes changes in operating expenses, non-operating items and provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change from First Quarter 2012 to First Quarter 2013 2013 2012 in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentage changes) Sales and marketing $ 697 $ 677 $ 20 3 % Product development 434 374 60 16 % General and administrative 408 372 36 10 % Provision for transaction and loan losses 175 134 41 31 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 82 84 (2 ) (2 )% Interest and other, net 9 31 (22 ) (71 )% Provision for income taxes (132 ) (114 ) (18 ) 16 % The following table summarizes operating expenses, non-operating items and provision for income taxes as a percentage of net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 Sales and marketing 19 % 21 % Product development 12 % 11 % General and administrative 11 % 11 % Provision for transaction and loan losses 5 % 4 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 2 % 3 % Interest and other, net % 1 % Provision for income taxes (4 )% (3 )% Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising costs and marketing programs (both online and offline), employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising includes brand campaigns, buyer/seller communications and general public relations expenses. A significant portion of our sales and marketing expense is attributable to our online marketing programs, primarily paid search, which include keyword advertising and third party lead generation costs, in order to drive traffic to our Marketplaces and Payments websites. Sales and marketing expenses increased $20 million , or 3% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to higher employee-related expenses (including consultant costs, facility costs and equipment-related costs), partially offset by a decrease in marketing program costs. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of net revenues was 19% and 21% for the first quarter of 2013 and 2012 , respectively. 29 Product Development Product development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major site and other product development efforts, including the development of our next generation platform architecture, migration of certain platforms, seller tools and Payments services projects. Our top technology priorities include mobile, user experience, search, platform and new products such as PayPal Here. Capitalized site and product development costs were $49 million in the first quarter of 2013 , compared to $47 million in the first quarter of 2012 , and are reflected primarily as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. Product development expenses increased $60 million , or 16% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to higher employee-related costs (including consultant costs, facility costs and equipment-related costs) driven by increased investment in platform, mobile and offline. Product development expenses as a net percentage of revenues were 12% and 11% for the first quarter of 2013 and 2012 , respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. General and administrative expenses increased $36 million , or 10% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to higher employee-related costs (including consultant costs, facility costs and equipment-related costs). General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues were 11% for both the first quarter of 2013 and 2012 . Provision for Transaction and Loan Losses Provision for transaction and loan losses consists primarily of transaction loss expense associated with our consumer protection programs, fraud, chargebacks, and merchant credit losses; bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance; and loan loss reserves associated with our loan receivables balance. We expect our provision for transaction and loan loss expense to fluctuate depending on many factors, including macroeconomic conditions, our consumer protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. Provision for transaction and loan losses increased $41 million , or 31% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was due primarily to higher transaction volume and growth in our Bill Me Later portfolio of receivables from consumer loans. The increase was partially offset by a reduction in our Marketplaces bad debt expense. Provision for transaction and loan loss expense as a percentage of net revenues was 5% and 4% for the first quarter of 2013 and 2012 , respectively. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets From time to time we have purchased, and we expect to continue to purchase, assets and businesses. These purchase transactions generally result in the creation of acquired intangible assets with finite lives and lead to a corresponding increase in our amortization expense in periods subsequent to acquisition. We amortize intangible assets over the period of estimated benefit, using the straight-line method and estimated useful lives ranging from one to eight years. Amortization of acquired intangible assets is also impacted by our sales of assets and businesses and timing of acquired intangible assets becoming fully amortized. See "Note 3 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Amortization of acquired intangible assets decreased by $2 million , or 2% , during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. 30 Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, our portion of operating results from investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, investment gain/loss on acquisitions and interest expense, consisting of interest charges on any amounts borrowed and commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding commercial paper and debt securities. Interest and other income, net excludes interest expense on borrowings incurred to finance Bill Me Later's portfolio of loan receivables, which is included in cost of net revenues. Interest and other, net decreased $22 million during the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease in interest and other, net was due primarily to an increase in interest expense of approximately $18 million as a result of our issuance of $3 billion of senior notes in July 2012. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 16.3% for the first quarter of 2013 , compared to 16.7% for the same period in the prior year. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in nondeductible expenses, partially offset by discrete items. From time to time, we engage in certain intercompany transactions and legal entity restructurings. We consider many factors when evaluating these transactions, including the alignment of our corporate structure with our organizational objectives and the operational and tax efficiency of our corporate structure, as well as the long-term cash flows and cash needs of our different businesses. These transactions may impact our overall tax rate and/or result in additional cash tax payments. The impact in any period may be significant. These transactions may be complex and the impact of such transactions on future periods may be difficult to estimate. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we can provide no assurances that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, we believe it is impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 937 $ 531 Investing activities (719 ) (893 ) Financing activities (411 ) (219 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (94 ) 54 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (287 ) $ (527 ) Operating Activities We generated cash from operating activities of $937 million and $531 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 , respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2013 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to a decrease in cash paid for income taxes of $392 million and an increase in net income of $107 million . Investing Activities The net cash used in investing activities of $719 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 was due primarily to net cash paid for the purchases of investments of $1.4 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $299 million , partially offset by proceeds of $1 billion from the maturities and sale of investments. 31 The net cash used in investing activities of $893 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012 was due primarily to net cash paid for the purchases of investments of $1 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $242 million, partially offset by proceeds of $408 million from the maturities and sale of investments. Financing Activities The net cash used in financing activities of $411 million in the three months ended March 31, 2013 was due primarily to cash outflows of $476 million to repurchase common stock and cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $153 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock units and awards. These cash outflows were partially offset by the effect of $116 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation and $102 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options. The net cash used in financing activities of $219 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012 was due primarily to cash outflows of $240 million to repurchase common stock as well as cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $118 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock units and awards. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows of $85 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and the effect of $54 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The negative effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2013 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Euro. The positive effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2012 was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Euro and Korean Won. Stock Repurchases In June 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $2 billion of our common stock, with no expiration from the date of authorization. The stock repurchase program is intended to offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs. During the three months ended March 31, 2013 , we repurchased approximately $476 million of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. As of March 31, 2013 , approximately $1.5 billion remained for further repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program. Shelf Registration Statement and Long-Term Debt At March 31, 2013 , we had an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue various types of debt securities, such as fixed or floating rate notes, U.S. dollar or foreign currency denominated notes, redeemable notes, global notes, and dual currency or other indexed notes. Each issuance under the shelf registration will require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be issued. The registration statement does not limit the amount of debt securities that may be issued thereunder. Our ability to issue debt securities is subject to market conditions and other factors impacting our borrowing capacity, including our credit ratings and compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement. We issued $3 billion of senior notes in an underwritten public offering in July 2012. These senior notes remain outstanding and consist of $250 million aggregate principal amount of 0.70% notes due 2015, $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.35% notes due 2017, $1 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.60% notes due 2022 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.00% notes due 2042. We issued $1.5 billion of senior notes under a prior shelf registration statement in an underwritten public offering in 2010. These senior notes remain outstanding and consist of $400 million aggregate principal amount of 0.875% notes due 2013, $600 million aggregate principal amount of 1.625% notes due 2015 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.250% notes due 2020. The indenture pursuant to which the senior notes were issued includes customary covenants that, among other things, and subject to exceptions, limit our ability to incur, assume or guarantee debt secured by liens on specified assets or enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to specified properties, and also includes customary events of default. 32 Commercial Paper We have a $2 billion commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue in an aggregate principal amount of up to $2 billion at any time outstanding. As of March 31, 2013 , there were no commercial paper notes outstanding. We may elect, subject to market conditions, to issue additional commercial paper notes from time to time in the future. Credit Agreement As of March 31, 2013 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under our $3 billion credit agreement. As described above, we have a $2 billion commercial paper program and maintain $2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they become due. As a result, at March 31, 2013 , $1 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. The credit agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the banks. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens, subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenant requires us to meet a quarterly financial test with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. Notes Payable and Capital Lease Obligations In addition to the debt described above, as of March 31, 2013 , we had notes payable of $14 million and capital lease obligations of $14 million . As of March 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all covenants in our outstanding debt instruments. Commitments As of March 31, 2013 , approximately $13 billion of unused credit was available to Bill Me Later accountholders. While this amount represents the total unused credit available, we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, that all of our Bill Me Later accountholders will access their entire available credit at any given point in time. In addition, the individual lines of credit that make up this unused credit are subject to periodic review and termination by the chartered financial institution that is the issuer of Bill Me Later credit products based on, among other things, account usage and customer creditworthiness. When a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the receivables related to the consumer loans extended by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of the purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each customer account, we own the related receivable, and Bill Me Later is responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of March 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 , we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, in an aggregate amount of $12 billion . As of March 31, 2013 , this amount included assets of these types held outside the U.S. in certain of our foreign operations totaling approximately $8 billion . If these assets were distributed to the U.S., we may be subject to additional U.S. taxes in certain circumstances. We actively monitor all counterparties that hold these assets, primarily focusing on the safety of principal and secondarily improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited with third party financial institutions. To the extent that our Bill Me Later products become more widely available through improved and more comprehensive product integrations with eBay, PayPal and other channels, and as we further promote Bill Me Later products, customer adoption and usage of Bill Me Later products may expand. Any resulting growth in the portfolio of Bill Me Later loan receivables would increase our liquidity needs and any failure to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect the Bill Me Later business. We currently fund the expansion of the Bill Me Later portfolio of loan receivables with domestic and international cash resources and borrowings. 33 From time to time, we engage in certain intercompany transactions and legal entity restructurings. We consider many factors when evaluating these transactions, including the alignment of our corporate structure with our organizational objectives and the operational and tax efficiency of our corporate structure, as well as the long-term cash flows and cash needs of our different businesses. These transactions may impact our overall tax rate and/or result in additional cash tax payments. The impact in any period may be significant. These transactions may be complex and the impact of such transactions on future periods may be difficult to estimate. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, Bill Me Later portfolio of loan receivables and stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2013 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In Europe, we have two cash pooling arrangements with a financial institution for cash management purposes. These arrangements allow for cash withdrawals from this financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held in Europe within the same financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). These arrangements also allow us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income. As of March 31, 2013 , we had a total of $5.7 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $5.7 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within the same financial institution under these cash pooling arrangements. Indemnification Provisions In the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations, including our standard marketing, promotions and application-programming-interface license agreements. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to our performance under the subject agreement. In certain cases we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement. GSI has provided in many of its major ecommerce agreements an indemnity for other types of third-party claims, which are indemnities mainly related to various intellectual property rights, and we have provided similar indemnities in a limited number of agreements for our other businesses. In our PayPal business, we have provided an indemnity to our payment processors in the event of certain third-party claims or card association fines against the processor arising out of conduct by PayPal or PayPal customers. PayPal has also provided a limited indemnity to merchants using its retail point of sale payment services. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively.