ITEM 2: MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, including with respect to the anticipated effects of COVID-19, new or planned features or services, or management strategies, including our strategic review). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part II - Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in our unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in this report. OVERVIEW Business eBay Inc. is a global commerce leader, which includes our Marketplace and Classifieds platforms. Founded in 1995 in San Jose, California, eBay is one of the worlds largest and most vibrant marketplaces for discovering great value and unique selection. Collectively, we connect millions of buyers and sellers around the world, empowering people and creating opportunity. Our technologies and services are designed to give buyers choice and a breadth of relevant inventory and to enable sellers worldwide to organize and offer their inventory for sale, virtually anytime and anywhere. On February 13, 2020, we closed the previously announced sale of our StubHub business to an affiliate of viagogo. Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, StubHubs financial results for periods prior to the sale have been reflected in our condensed consolidated statement of income as discontinued operations. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations in the prior year are classified as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. See Note 4 Discontinued Operations in our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report for additional information. On February 21, 2020, we issued a statement regarding our previously announced strategic review of Classifieds confirming that we have been in active discussions with multiple parties regarding a potential transaction. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic, which continues to spread throughout the world. While the disruption is currently expected to be temporary, there is uncertainty around the duration. Our Marketplace platforms have experienced improved traffic, buyer acquisition, and conversion due to ongoing confinement at home dynamics in many countries. The Marketplace platforms have also experienced improved acquisition of small business sellers, offset by a decline in advertising. Our eBay Classifieds platforms are adversely impacted by recent auto dealer closures in many international markets, lower traffic to horizontal classifieds sites around the world due to social distancing requirements and lower advertising revenues. The impacts seen in both platforms could continue while shelter-in-place or similar guidelines remain active, however it is difficult to predict the impact on our platforms as these guidelines are eased or lifted and how consumer demand and seller inventory may evolve over time. See Results of Operations below for impacts of COVID-19 on our results for the three months ended March 31, 2020. For additional information, see Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements below and Item 1A: Risk Factors 33 under the captions The global COVID-19 pandemic could harm our business and results of operations in Part II of this report. On April 13, 2020, we announced that the Board of Directors of eBay appointed Jamie Iannone as President and Chief Executive Officer of eBay, effective April 27, 2020. Mr. Iannone was also appointed as a member of the Board, effective as of April 27, 2020. When we refer to we, our, us or eBay in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. Presentation In addition to the corresponding measures under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), management uses non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. The foreign exchange neutral (FX-Neutral), or constant currency, net revenue amounts discussed below are non-GAAP financial measures and are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. Accordingly, the FX-Neutral information appearing in the following discussion of our results of operations should be read in conjunction with the information provided below in Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance , which includes reconciliations of FX-Neutral financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. Quarter Highlights Net revenues decreased 2% to $2.4 billion during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. FX-Neutral net revenue increased 1% during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. Operating margin increased to 26.5% for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to 24.6% for the same period in 2019. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased to $0.64 during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $0.57 in the same period in 2019. The sale of StubHub was completed for $4.1 billion of proceeds, subject to working capital adjustments, which was recorded within discontinued operations. We generated cash flow from continuing operating activities of $702 million during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $572 million in the same period in 2019. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we issued debt of $1.0 billion and paid $4.0 billion for repurchases of our common stock and paid $114 million in cash dividends. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have two reportable segments to reflect the way management and our chief operating decision maker (CODM) review and assess performance of the business. During the first quarter of 2020, we classified the results of our previous StubHub segment as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated statement of income for all prior periods presented. Our two reportable segments are Marketplace and Classifieds. Marketplace includes our online marketplace located at www.ebay.com, its localized counterparts and the eBay suite of mobile apps. Classifieds includes a collection of brands such as mobile.de, Kijiji, Gumtree, Marktplaats, eBay Kleinanzeigen and others. The accounting policies of our segments are the same as those described in Note 1 The Company and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies in our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Prior period segment information has been reclassified to conform to the current period segment presentation. 34 Net Revenues Seasonality We expect transaction activity patterns on our platforms to mirror general consumer buying patterns and expect that these trends will continue. All of our segments have seasonal cadences that impact their revenues and margins. The following table sets forth sequential quarterly movements of our total net revenues for the periods presented (in millions, except percentages): Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 2018 Net revenues $ 2,348 $ 2,394 $ 2,358 $ 2,563 % change from prior quarter (2) % 2 % (1) % 9 % 2019 Net revenues $ 2,413 $ 2,423 $ 2,343 $ 2,500 % change from prior quarter (6) % % (3) % 7 % 2020 Net revenues $ 2,374 $ $ $ % change from prior quarter (5) % Net Revenues by Geography Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies primarily based upon the country in which the seller, platform that displays advertising, other service provider or customer, as the case may be, is located. The following table presents net revenues by geography for the periods presented (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2020 2019 As Reported U.S. $ 822 $ 842 (2) % Percentage of net revenues 35 % 35 % International 1,552 1,571 (1) % Percentage of net revenues 65 % 65 % Total net revenues $ 2,374 $ 2,413 (2) % Our commerce platforms operate globally, resulting in certain revenues that are denominated in foreign currencies, including the euro, British pound, Korean won, and Australian dollar. In addition, as shown in the table above, we generate a majority of our net revenues internationally. Because of these factors, we are subject to the risks related to doing business in foreign countries as discussed in Part II - Item 1A: Risk Factors. Net revenues included immaterial hedging gains during the three months ended March 31, 2020, as compared to $20 million of hedging gains during the same period in 2019. The hedging activity in net revenues specifically relates to hedges of net transaction revenues generated by our Marketplace segment. Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had an unfavorable impact of $41 million on net revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to an unfavorable impact of $67 million during the same period in 2019. The effect of foreign currency exchange rate movements during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily attributable to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the Korean won and euro. 35 Net Revenues by Type and Segment We generate two types of net revenues: Net transaction revenues primarily include final value fees, feature fees, including fees to promote listings, and listing fees from sellers on our Marketplace platforms. Our net transaction revenues also include store subscription and other fees, often from large enterprise sellers. Our net transaction revenues are reduced by incentives, including discounts, coupons and rewards, provided to our customers. Marketing services and other (MS&O) revenues consist of Marketplace and Classifieds revenues principally from the sale of advertisements, classifieds fees, revenue sharing arrangements and first-party inventory programs. The following table presents net revenues by type and segment (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change Net transaction revenues: Marketplace $ 1,900 $ 1,885 1 % Marketing services and other revenues: Marketplace 230 277 (17) % Classifieds 248 256 (3) % Elimination of inter-segment net revenues (4) (5) (20) % Total 474 528 (10) % Total net revenues $ 2,374 $ 2,413 (2) % Net Transaction Revenues Key Operating Metrics Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) and take rate are significant factors that we believe affect our net transaction revenues. GMV consists of the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on our Marketplace platform during the applicable period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. Despite GMVs divergence from revenue, we still believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of closed transactions that flow through our Marketplace platform in a given period, notwithstanding the inclusion in GMV of closed transactions that are not ultimately consummated. Take rate is defined as net transaction revenues divided by GMV. Marketplace Net Transaction Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change 2020 2019 As Reported FX-Neutral (In millions, except percentages) Marketplace net transaction revenues (1) $ 1,900 $ 1,885 1 % 3 % Supplemental data: Marketplace GMV $ 21,259 $ 21,571 (1) % % Marketplace take rate 8.93 % 8.74 % 0.19 % (1) Marketplace net transaction revenues were net of immaterial hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and $20 million of hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2019. 36 Marketplace net transaction revenues increased during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to growth in promoted listing fees and higher take rate, partially offset by additional credit provisions recognized in light of the current economic environment driven by COVID-19. Marketplace transaction take rate was higher during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019, primarily due to growth in promoted listing fees, which along with final value fees are calculated as a percentage of an items sale price and category mix, partially offset by additional credit provisions recognized in light of the current economic environment driven by COVID-19. The increase in Marketplace net transaction revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was due to take rate considerations discussed above, despite declining Marketplace GMV. We expect that the divergence between Marketplace net transaction revenues and Marketplace GMV to continue throughout 2020. Despite GMVs divergence from net transaction revenues, we still believe the metric provides a useful measure of overall volume of closed transactions that flow through the platform in a given period. Marketing Services and Other Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, % Change 2020 2019 As Reported FX-Neutral (In millions, except percentages) Marketplace $ 230 $ 277 (17) % (15) % Classifieds 248 256 (3) % % Elimination of inter-segment net revenues (4) (5) (20) % (20) % Total MS&O revenues $ 474 $ 528 (10) % (8) % Marketplace MS&O Revenues The decrease in Marketplace MS&O revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily due to the sale of brands4friends in the third quarter of 2019, lower advertising revenues that were driven by our ongoing shift to promoted listing fees, which are recognized in net transaction revenues, partially offset by increases attributable to our first-party inventory program in Korea. Classifieds MS&O Revenues The decrease in Classifieds MS&O revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily driven by the impact of COVID-19 on advertising revenues. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues primarily consists of costs associated with customer support, site operations, costs of goods sold and payment processing. Significant components of these costs include employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense, first-party inventory program costs, bank transaction fees, and credit card interchange and assessment fees. The following table presents cost of net revenues (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change Cost of net revenues $ 526 $ 539 (3) % Percentage of net revenues 22.1 % 22.3 % Cost of net revenues, net of immaterial hedging activities, was favorably impacted by $11 million attributable to foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. 37 The decrease in cost of net revenues during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily due to a favorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar, lower cost of goods sold due to the sale brands4friends in the third quarter of 2019, and lower customer support and site operations costs. The decrease in cost of net revenues was partially offset by an increase in payment processing costs as we continue to transition customers to our payments platform and an increase in cost of goods sold related to our first-party inventory program in Korea. Operating Expenses The following table presents operating expenses (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change Sales and marketing $ 607 $ 647 (6) % Percentage of net revenues 26 % 27 % Product development 267 272 (2) % Percentage of net revenues 11 % 11 % General and administrative 234 284 (18) % Percentage of net revenues 10 % 12 % Provision for transaction losses 102 67 54 % Percentage of net revenues 4 % 3 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 9 11 (18) % Total operating expenses $ 1,219 $ 1,281 (5) % Foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar had a favorable impact of $20 million on operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. There was no hedging activity within operating expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2020. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of advertising and marketing program costs (both online and offline), employee compensation, certain user coupons and rewards, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising primarily includes brand campaigns and buyer/seller communications. The decrease in sales and marketing expense during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily due to a decrease in employee-related costs, a favorable impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar and a decrease in user coupons and rewards. Product Development Product development expenses primarily consist of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major platform and other product development efforts, including the development and maintenance of our technology platform. Our top technology priorities include payment intermediation capabilities and improved seller tools and buyer experiences built on a foundation of structured data. The change in product development expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was relatively flat. Capitalized internal use and platform development costs were $31 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to $38 million for the same period in 2019. These costs are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. 38 General and Administrative General and administrative expenses primarily consist of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. The decrease in general and administrative expenses during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily due to restructuring costs related to our global workforce reduction in 2019 and decreases in professional fees and employee-related costs. Provision for Transaction Losses Provision for transaction losses primarily consists of transaction loss expense associated with our buyer protection programs, fraud and bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance. We expect our provision for transaction losses to fluctuate depending on many factors, including changes to our protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. The increase in provision for transaction losses during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily due to an increase in bad debt expense as a result of additional provisions recognized in light of the current economic environment driven by COVID-19. Income from Continuing Operations The following table presents income from continuing operations (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change Income from continuing operations $ 629 $ 593 6 % Operating margin 26.5 % 24.6 % The increase in income from continuing operations during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily due to lower restructuring and employee costs in 2019 which were partially offset by lower Marketplace operating income and the impact of COVID-19 on the Classifieds segment in 2020 as described above. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net primarily consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, gains and losses due to changes in fair value of the warrant received from Adyen, our portion of operating results from investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, investment gain/loss on acquisitions or disposals and interest expense, consisting of interest charges on any amounts borrowed and commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, if any. The following table presents interest and other, net (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 % Change Total interest and other, net $ 2 $ 64 ** Percentage of net revenues % 3 % The decrease in interest and other, net during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily attributable to the change in the fair value of the Adyen warrant from 2019 partially offset by a gain recorded for the receipt of proceeds that were held in escrow related to a long-term investment that was sold in 2018. 39 Income Tax Provision The following table presents provision for income taxes (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 Income tax provision $ 146 $ 141 Effective tax rate 23.2 % 21.3 % The increase in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 was primarily due to changes in the jurisdictional mix and character of earnings in foreign jurisdictions and related U.S. tax implications. The realignment of our legal structure, substantially completed in 2018, allows us to achieve certain foreign cash tax benefits due to the step-up in tax basis achieved in certain foreign jurisdictions. We expect these cash tax benefits to remain consistent, subject to the performance of our foreign platforms , for a period in excess of 10 years. The realignment primarily impacted our international entities. However, U.S. tax reform and the new U.S. minimum tax on foreign earnings will reduce our expected consolidated cash tax benefits. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we cannot assure you that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, we believe it is impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. Discontinued Operations On February 13, 2020, we closed the previously announced sale of our StubHub business to an affiliate of viagogo. Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, StubHubs financial results for periods prior to the sale have been reflected in our condensed consolidated statement of income as discontinued operations. Additionally, the related assets and liabilities associated with the discontinued operations in the prior year are classified as discontinued operations in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. See Note 4 Discontinued Operations for additional information. 40 Non-GAAP Measures of Financial Performance To supplement our condensed consolidated financial statements presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we use FX-Neutral net revenues, which are non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses the foregoing non-GAAP measures in reviewing our financial results. We define FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect. We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts, excluding hedging activity. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative to, measures prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. In addition, these non-GAAP measures are not based on any comprehensive set of accounting rules or principles. Non-GAAP measures have limitations in that they do not reflect all of the amounts associated with our results of operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. These measures should only be used to evaluate our results of operations in conjunction with the corresponding GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures are provided to enhance investors overall understanding of our current financial performance and its prospects for the future. Specifically, we believe these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to both management and investors by excluding the foreign currency exchange rate impact that may not be indicative of our core operating results and business outlook. In addition, because we have historically reported certain non-GAAP results to investors, we believe that the inclusion of these non-GAAP measures provide consistency in our financial reporting. The following tables set forth a reconciliation of FX-Neutral GMV and FX-Neutral net revenues (each as defined below) to our reported GMV and net revenues for the periods presented (in millions, except percentages): Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 Three Months Ended March 31, 2019 As Reported Exchange Rate Effect (1)(3) FX-Neutral (2) As Reported As Reported % Change FX-Neutral % Change GMV: Marketplace $ 21,259 $ (417) $ 21,676 $ 21,571 (1) % % Net Revenues Net transaction revenues: Marketplace $ 1,900 $ (30) $ 1,930 $ 1,885 1 % 3 % Marketing services and other revenues: Marketplace 230 (5) 235 277 (17) % (15) % Classifieds 248 (6) 254 256 (3) % % Elimination of inter-segment net revenue (4) (4) (5) (20) % (20) % Total 474 (11) 485 528 (10) % (8) % Total net revenues $ 2,374 $ (41) $ 2,415 $ 2,413 (2) % 1 % (1) We define exchange rate effect as the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts excluding hedging activity. (2) We define FX-Neutral GMV as GMV minus the exchange rate effect. We define the non-GAAP financial measures of FX-Neutral net revenues as net revenues minus the exchange rate effect. (3) Marketplace net transaction revenues were net of immaterial hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2020 and $20 million of hedging activity during the three months ended March 31, 2019. 41 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2020 2019 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Continuing operating activities $ 702 $ 572 Continuing investing activities (1,569) 571 Continuing financing activities (3,161) (1,605) Effect of exchange rates on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash (34) (10) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents - discontinued operations 3,965 (35) Net increase (decrease) in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash $ (97) $ (507) Continuing Operating Activities Cash provided by continuing operating activities of $702 million in the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to net income of $3.4 billion with adjustments for income from discontinued operations of $2.9 billion, $147 million in depreciation and amortization, $100 million in stock-based compensation, $102 million in provision for transaction losses, $52 million for deferred income taxes, partially offset by $134 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects, $38 million for a gain on sale of an investment and an adjustment to net income of $12 million for changes in the fair value of the Adyen warrant. Continuing Investing Activities Cash used in continuing investing activities of $1.6 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to cash paid for investments of $10.7 billion and property and equipment of $98 million, partially offset by proceeds of $9.2 billion from the maturities and sales of investments. Continuing Financing Activities Cash used in continuing financing activities of $3.2 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2020 was primarily attributable to cash paid to repurchase $4.0 billion of common stock, of which $3.0 billion related to repurchases of common stock under an accelerated share repurchase program, and $114 million of cash dividends, which were partially offset by $1.0 billion of proceeds from debt issuances. The negative effect of exchange rate movements on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Korean won, British pound, Turkish Iira and Australian dollar during the three months ended March 31, 2020 compared to the 2019 year-end rate. 42 Stock Repurchases In January 2019, our Board authorized a $4.0 billion stock repurchase program and in January 2020, our Board authorized an additional $5.0 billion stock repurchase program. These stock repurchase programs have no expiration from the date of authorization. On February 13, 2020, we entered into accelerated share repurchase agreements (the ASR Agreements) with each three financial institutions (each, an ASR Counterparty), as part of our share repurchase program. Under the ASR Agreements, we paid an aggregate amount of $3.0 billion to the ASR Counterparties and received an initial delivery of approximately 69 million shares of our common stock, which shares were recorded as a $2.55 billion increase to treasury stock. The final number of shares to be repurchased will be based on the volume-weighted average stock price of our common stock during the terms of the agreements, less a discount. This is evaluated as an unsettled forward contract indexed to our own stock, with $450 million classified within stockholders equity. The transactions are scheduled to settle in the third quarter of 2020 but may settle earlier in certain circumstances. At final settlement, each ASR Counterparty may be required to deliver additional shares of our common stock to us or, under certain circumstances, we may be required to make a cash payment or deliver shares of our common stock to the applicable ASR Counterparty, with the method of settlement at our election. Our stock repurchase programs are intended to programmatically offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock to reduce our outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions (including accelerated share repurchase transactions) or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. During the three months ended March 31, 2020, we repurchased approximately $4 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. As of March 31, 2020, a total of approximately $3.2 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. We expect, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties, to continue making opportunistic and programmatic repurchases of our common stock. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including corporate and regulatory requirements, the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. Dividends We paid a tot al of $114 million in cash dividends during the three months ended March 31, 2020. In April 2020, our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.16 per share of common stock to be paid on June 19, 2020 to stockholders of record as of June 1, 2020. Shelf Registration Statement and Debt Shelf Registration As of March 31, 2020, we had an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue various types of debt securities, as well as common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares representing fractional interest in shares of preferred stock, purchase contracts and units from time to time in one or more offerings. Each issuance under the shelf registration statement will require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be issued. The registration statement does not limit the amount of securities that may be issued thereunder. Our ability to issue securities is subject to market conditions and other factors including, in the case of our debt securities, our credit ratings and compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement. 43 Senior Notes As of March 31, 2020, we had floating- and fixed-rate senior notes outstanding for an aggregate principal amount of $8.8 billion. The net proceeds from the issuances of these senior notes are used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, capital expenditures, share repurchases, repayment of indebtedness and possible acquisitions. The floating rate notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. On and after March 1, 2021, we may redeem some or all of the 6.000% fixed rate notes due 2056 at any time and from time to time prior to their maturity, at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest. We may redeem some or all of the other fixed rate notes of each series at any time and from time to time prior to their maturity, generally at a make-whole redemption price plus accrued and unpaid interest. If a change of control triggering event (as defined in the applicable senior notes) occurs with respect to the 2.150% fixed rate notes due 2020, the 3.800% fixed rate notes due 2022, the floating rate notes due 2023, the 2.750% fixed rate notes due 2023, the 1.900% fixed rate notes due 2025, the 3.600% fixed rate notes due 2027, the 2.700% fixed rate notes due 2030 or the 6.000% fixed rate notes due 2056, we must, subject to certain exceptions, offer to repurchase all of the notes of the applicable series at a price equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. For additional details related to our senior notes, please see Note 10 Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. To help achieve our interest rate risk management objectives, in connection with the previous issuance of certain senior notes, we entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $2.4 billion of the fixed rate notes to floating rate debt based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread. These swaps were designated as fair value hedges against changes in the fair value of certain fixed rate senior notes resulting from changes in interest rates. As of March 31, 2020, we had no interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges outstanding as $1.15 billion related to our 2.200% senior notes of the $2.4 billion aggregate notional amount matured in 2019 and in 2019 we terminated the interest rate swaps related to $750 million of our 2.875% senior notes due July 2021 and $500 million of our 3.450% senior notes due July 2024. As a result of the early termination, hedge accounting was discontinued prospectively and the gain on termination was recorded as an increase to the long-term debt balance and is being recognized over the remaining life of the underlying debt as a reduction to interest expense. The gain recognized during the three months ended March 31, 2020 was immaterial . For additional details related to the interest rate swap termination, please see, Note 10 Debt to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. The indenture pursuant to which the senior notes were issued includes customary covenants that, among other things and subject to exceptions, limit our ability to incur, assume or guarantee debt secured by liens on specified assets or enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to specified properties, and also includes customary events of default with customary grace periods in certain circumstances, including payment defaults and bankruptcy-related defaults. Commercial Paper We have a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes in an aggregate principal amount at maturity of up to $1.5 billion outstanding at any time with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue. As of March 31, 2020, there were no commercial paper notes outstanding. Credit Agreement In March 2020, we entered into a credit agreement that provides for an unsecured $2 billion five-year credit facility. We may also, subject to the agreement of the applicable lenders, increase commitments under the revolving credit facility by up to $1 billion. Funds borrowed under the credit agreement may be used for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes. The credit agreement replaced our prior $2 billion unsecured revolving credit agreement dated November 2015, which was terminated effective March 2020. As of March 31, 2020, no borrowings were outstanding under our $2 billion credit agreement. However, as described above, we have an up to $1.5 billion commercial paper program and are required to maintain available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they become due, in an aggregate amount of $1.5 billion. However as of March 31, 2020, no borrowings were outstanding under our commercial paper program; therefore, $2 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. The 44 credit agreement includes a covenant limiting our consolidated leverage ratio to no more than 4.0:1.0, subject to, upon the occurrence of a qualified material acquisition, if so elected by us, a step-up to 4.5:1.0 for the four fiscal quarters completed following such qualified material acquisition. The credit agreement includes customary events of default, with corresponding grace periods in certain circumstances, including payment defaults, cross-defaults and bankruptcy-related defaults. In addition, the credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens and subsidiary indebtedness, in each case, subject to customary exceptions. The credit agreement also contains customary representations and warranties. We were in compliance with all covenants in our outstanding debt instruments for the three months ended March 31, 2020. Credit Ratings As of March 31, 2020, we were rated investment grade by Standard and Poors Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook), Moodys Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated BBB, short-term rated F-2, with a stable outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any further actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, as described above, will likely increase our borrowing costs. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of March 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, in an aggregate amount of $5.2 billion and $3.8 billion, respectively. As of March 31, 2020, this amount included assets held in certain of our foreign operations totaling approximately $3.2 billion. As we repatriate these funds to the U.S., we will be required to pay income taxes in certain U.S. states and applicable foreign withholding taxes on those amounts during the period when such repatriation occurs. We have accrued deferred taxes for the tax effect of repatriating the funds to the U.S. We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets, including, without limitation, as a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, repayment of debt and stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. However, COVID-19 and related measures to contain its impact have caused material disruptions in both national and global financial markets and economies. The future impact of COVID-19 and these containment measures cannot be predicted with certainty and may increase our borrowing costs and other costs of capital and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and we cannot assure that we will have access to external financing at times and on terms we consider acceptable, or at all, or that we will not experience other liquidity issues going forward. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2020, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 45 We have a cash pooling arrangement with a financial institution for cash management purposes. This arrangement allows for cash withdrawals from the financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the same financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). This arrangement also allows us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under the arrangement. As of March 31, 2020, we had a total of $4.5 billion in aggregate cash deposits, partially offset by $4.5 billion in cash withdrawals, held within the financial institution under the cash pooling arrangement. Indemnification Provisions We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with PayPal to govern the separation and relationship of the two companies. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and PayPal, which may be significant. In addition, the indemnity rights we have against PayPal under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us and our indemnity obligations to PayPal may be significant. In addition, we have entered into indemnification agreements with each of our directors, executive officers and certain other officers. These agreements require us to indemnify such individuals, to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law, for certain liabilities to which they may become subject as a result of their affiliation with us. In the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations, including our standard marketing, promotions and application programming interface license agreements. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to our performance under the subject agreement. In certain cases, we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our condensed consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively.