Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed inPart II Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in our condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. Overview eBay is a global commerce platform and payments leader. We enable commerce through eBay, the world's largest online marketplace, which allows users to buy and sell in nearly every country on earth; through PayPal, which enables individuals and businesses to securely, easily and quickly send and receive online payments; and through GSI, which facilitates ecommerce, multichannel retailing and interactive marketing for global enterprises. X.commerce brings together the technology assets and developer communities of eBay, PayPal and Magento, an ecommerce storefront platform, to support our mission of enabling commerce. We also reach millions of people through specialized marketplaces such as StubHub, the world's largest ticket marketplace, and eBay classifieds sites, which together have a presence in more than 1,000 cities around the world. We have three reportable business segments: Marketplaces, Payments and GSI. Our Marketplaces segment includes our eBay.com platform and its localized counterparts and our other online trading platforms, such as our online classifieds sites and StubHub. Our Payments segment is comprised of PayPal, Bill Me Later and Zong. Our GSI segment consists of GSI Commerce, Inc. ("GSI"), and was added upon the completion of our acquisition of GSI on June 17, 2011. The results of our GSI segment have been included in our consolidated results of operations from the acquisition date. Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2012 increased 29% to $3.3 billion , compared to the same period of the prior year, driven primarily by a 24% increase in PayPal net total payment volume (TPV), a 12% increase in Marketplaces gross merchandise volume (GMV) excluding vehicles and net revenues of $237 million from GSI. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 , our operating margin decreased to 20% from 22% in the same period of the prior year, driven primarily by the impact of acquisitions and business mix. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 , our diluted earnings per share increased to $0.44 , a $0.08 increase compared to the same period of the prior year, driven primarily by solid top-line growth, higher interest and other, net and lower outstanding shares, partially offset by a lower operating margin. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 , we generated cash flow from operations of approximately $531 million , compared to $700 million for the same period of the prior year. The decrease in cash flow from operations was due primarily to cash paid for income taxes of $432 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012, associated primarily with the gain on the sale of our remaining equity interest in Skype in October 2011, compared to $24 million in the same period of the prior year. Our Marketplaces segment total net revenues increased $175 million , or 11% , for the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in total net revenues was driven primarily by a year-over-year increase in GMV excluding vehicles of 12% , which was due primarily to strong growth in all regions and continued growth at StubHub. Marketplaces segment operating margin decreased 1.8 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year due to investments in our marketing and product development efforts. 22 Our Payments segment total net revenues increased $316 million , or 32% , for the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in total net revenues was driven primarily by a year-over-year increase in net TPV of 24% , a higher take rate due primarily to growth in Bill Me Later revenue, foreign exchange fees associated with cross-border transactions and a favorable impact from our foreign currency hedging activities. Our Payments segment operating margin increased 4.1 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to improvement in funding mix, lower processing costs and operating leverage. Our GSI segment was formed as a result of our acquisition of GSI in June 2011. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 , GSI contributed $237 million in revenue and had a segment operating margin of 9.5% . Some key operating metrics that members of our senior management regularly review to evaluate our financial results include net promoter score (NPS), market share, GMV, GMV excluding vehicles, number of sold items, net TPV, net number of payments, global ecommerce (GeC) merchandise sales, penetration rates, active registered accounts, same store sales, funding mix (the mix of payments vehicles such as credit cards, debit cards, bank accounts and PayPal accounts, used by customers to make payments through our Payments networks), free cash flow (which we define as net cash provided by operating activities less purchases of property and equipment, net) and revenue excluding acquisitions and foreign currency impact. Outlook We expect our Payments business in the second quarter of 2012 to continue its strong performance from expanded consumer and merchant adoption. In addition, we expect solid performance in the second quarter of 2012 from our Marketplaces business in its core markets driven by strength in ecommerce and mobile and our continued investment in marketing and technology. Finally, we expect our GSI business to continue to perform well, driven by operational improvements and the realization of synergies. We expect to continue to invest in all of our platforms and new products. Results of Operations Summary of Net Revenues We generate two types of net revenues: net transaction revenues and marketing services and other revenues. Our net transaction revenues are derived principally from listing fees, final value fees (which are fees payable on transactions completed on our Marketplaces trading platforms), fees paid by merchants for payment processing services and ecommerce service fees. Our marketing services revenues are derived principally from the sale of advertisements, revenue sharing arrangements, classifieds fees, marketing service fees and lead referral fees. Other revenues are derived principally from interest and fees earned on the Bill Me Later portfolio of receivables from loans, interest earned on certain PayPal customer account balances and fees from contractual arrangements with third parties that provide services to our users. 23 The following table sets forth the breakdown of net revenues by type and geography for the periods presented. Three Months Ended March 31, Percent 2012 2011 (1) Change (In millions, except percentage changes) Net Revenues by Type: Net transaction revenues Marketplaces $ 1,425 $ 1,284 11 % Payments 1,216 943 29 % GSI 182 N/A Total net transaction revenues 2,823 2,227 27 % Marketing services and other revenues Marketplaces 303 269 13 % Payments 93 50 86 % GSI 55 N/A Corporate and other 6 N/A Total marketing services and other revenues 457 319 43 % Elimination of inter-segment net revenue (2) (3 ) N/A Total net revenues $ 3,277 $ 2,546 29 % Net Revenues by Geography: U.S. $ 1,581 $ 1,141 39 % International 1,696 1,405 21 % Total net revenues $ 3,277 $ 2,546 29 % (1) Excludes data for GSI, which was acquired in June 2011. (2) Represents revenue generated between our reportable segments. Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies based primarily upon the country in which the seller, payment recipient, customer, website that displays advertising, or other service provider, as the case may be, is located. Because we generate substantial net revenues internationally, we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries as discussed under "Part II - Item 1A - Risk Factors." In that regard, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our results of operations. We have a foreign exchange risk management program that is designed to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies; however, the effectiveness of this program in mitigating the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations varies from period to period, and in any given period, our operating results are usually affected, sometimes significantly, by changes in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates also directly affect our cross-border revenue. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on our business using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. For the three months ended March 31, 2012 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net revenues by approximately $23 million (net of a $12 million positive impact from hedging activities included in PayPal's net revenue) compared to the same period of the prior year. On a business segment basis for the three months ended March 31, 2012 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted Marketplaces net revenues by approximately $24 million and positively impacted Payments net revenues by approximately $1 million , in each case compared to the same period of the prior year (net of the impact of hedging activities, noted above). 24 The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, certain key operating metrics that we believe are significant factors affecting our net revenues. Three Months Ended March 31, Percent 2012 2011 Change (In millions, except percentage changes) Supplemental Operating Data: Marketplaces Segment: (1) GMV excluding vehicles (2) 16,206 14,496 12 % GMV vehicles only (3) 1,871 2,050 (9 )% Total GMV (4) 18,077 16,546 9 % Payments Segment: Net TPV (5) 33,857 27,362 24 % GSI Segment: GeC Merchandise Sales (6) 715 N/A (1) eBay's classifieds websites and Shopping.com are not included in these metrics. (2) Total value of all successfully closed items between users on eBay Marketplaces trading platforms during the period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction, excluding vehicles GMV. (3) Total value of all successfully closed vehicle transactions between users on eBay Marketplaces trading platforms during the period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. (4) Total value of all successfully closed items between users on eBay Marketplaces trading platforms during the period, regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction. (5) Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our Payments networks and Zong, excluding PayPal's payment gateway business, and on Bill Me Later accounts during the period. (6) Represents the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through the GSI ecommerce services platform, whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee. Seasonality The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly movements of these net revenues: Quarter Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 (In millions, except percentage changes) 2010 Net revenues $ 2,196 $ 2,215 $ 2,249 $ 2,495 Percent change from prior quarter (7 )% 1 % 2 % 11 % 2011 (1) Net revenues $ 2,546 $ 2,760 $ 2,966 $ 3,380 Percent change from prior quarter 2 % 8 % 7 % 14 % 2012 Net revenues $ 3,277 Percent change from prior quarter (3 )% (1) Net revenues attributable to the GSI segment are reflected from June 17, 2011 (the date the acquisition of GSI was completed). We expect transaction activity patterns on our websites to mirror general consumer buying patterns. Our GSI segment is highly seasonal. The fourth calendar quarter typically accounts for a disproportionate amount of GSI's total annual revenue because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers during the fourth quarter holiday season. 25 Marketplaces Net Transaction Revenues Marketplaces net transaction revenues increased $141 million , or 11% , while GMV excluding vehicles increased 12% during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period in the prior year. The increase in net transaction revenue and GMV excluding vehicles was due primarily to strong growth across all regions and continued growth at StubHub. Marketplaces net transaction revenues earned internationally (i.e., outside the U.S.) totaled $789 million and $725 million during the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing 55% of total Marketplaces net transaction revenues for both periods. The increase in international net transaction revenues was due primarily to growth in our existing international markets, partially offset by the impact of foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Payments Net Transaction Revenues Payments net transaction revenues increased $273 million , or 29% , during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to net TPV growth of 24% , and a higher take rate due primarily to foreign exchange fees associated with cross-border transactions, as well as a favorable impact from our foreign currency hedging activities. The increase in net TPV was due primarily to growth in consumer and merchant adoption of PayPal. Our Merchant Services net TPV increased 28% during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year, and represented 66% of PayPal's net TPV in the first quarter of 2012 , compared with 64% in the first quarter of 2011. Net TPV on our eBay.com platform and its localized counterparts increased 17% during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year. Payments net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $658 million and $476 million during the first quarter of 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing 54% and 50% of total Payments net transaction revenues during those respective periods. The increase in international net transaction revenues was due primarily to the growth of our Merchant Services business and increased penetration on eBay Marketplaces platforms internationally. GSI Net Transaction Revenues GSI net transaction revenues were $182 million during the first quarter of 2012 . Marketing Services and Other Revenues Marketing services and other revenues increased $138 million , or 43% , during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year, and represented 14% and 13% of total net revenues during those respective periods. The increase in marketing services and other revenues during the first quarter of 2012 was due primarily to revenues attributable to GSI and growth in our Bill Me Later (BML) portfolio of receivables from loans as well as increased revenue from our classifieds and advertising business. 26 Summary of Cost of Net Revenues The following table summarizes changes in cost of net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 2012 2011 (1) in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentages) Cost of net revenues: Marketplaces $ 299 $ 296 $ 3 1 % As a percentage of total Marketplaces net revenues 17.3 % 19.0 % Payments 515 433 82 19 % As a percentage of total Payments net revenues 39.3 % 43.6 % GSI 145 145 N/A As a percentage of total GSI net revenues 61.2 % Corporate and other 24 24 N/A Total cost of net revenues $ 983 $ 729 $ 254 35 % As a percentage of net revenues 30.0 % 28.6 % (1) Excludes data for GSI, which was acquired in June 2011. Cost of Net Revenues Cost of net revenues consists primarily of costs associated with payment processing, customer support, site operations, fulfillment and inventory. Significant components of these costs include bank transaction fees, credit card interchange and assessment fees, interest expense on indebtedness incurred to finance the purchase of consumer loans receivable by Bill Me Later, employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense. Marketplaces Marketplaces cost of net revenues increased $3 million , or 1% , during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year. Marketplaces cost of net revenues as a percentage of Marketplaces net revenues decreased 1.7 percentage points during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to improved operating leverage in our site operation infrastructure. Payments Payments cost of net revenues increased $82 million , or 19% , during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in Payments cost of net revenues was due primarily to the impact of growth in net TPV. Payments cost of net revenues as a percentage of Payments net revenues decreased 4.3 percentage points during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to a lower transaction expense rate. The improvement in our transaction expense rate was driven primarily by improvement in funding mix and lower processing costs. GSI GSI cost of net revenues was $145 million during the first quarter of 2012 . 27 Summary of Operating Expenses, Non-Operating Items and Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes changes in operating expenses, non-operating items and provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change from 2011 to 2012 2012 2011 in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentage changes) Sales and marketing $ 677 $ 533 $ 144 27 % Product development 374 275 99 36 % General and administrative 372 293 79 27 % Provision for transaction and loan losses 134 107 27 25 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 84 44 40 91 % Interest and other, net 31 3 28 933 % Provision for income taxes (114 ) (92 ) (22 ) 24 % Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising costs and marketing programs (both online and offline), employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising includes brand campaigns, buyer/seller communications and general public relations expenses. A significant portion of our sales and marketing expense is attributable to our online marketing programs, primarily paid search, which include keyword advertising and third party lead generation costs, in order to drive traffic to our Marketplaces and Payments websites. Sales and marketing expenses increased $144 million , or 27% , during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to higher employee-related expenses (including consultant costs, facility costs and equipment-related costs), marketing program costs (including our brand campaign and product launches), and the impact from acquisitions, primarily GSI. Product Development Product development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major site and other product development efforts, including the development of our next generation platform architecture, migration of certain platforms, seller tools and Payments services projects. Our top technology priorities involve search, catalog, mobile, platform and user experience. Capitalized site and product development costs were $47 million in the first quarter of 2012 , compared to $37 million in the first quarter of 2011 , and are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. Product development expenses increased $99 million , or 36% , during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to higher employee-related costs (including consultant costs, facility costs and equipment-related costs) driven by increased investment in our top technology priorities and the impact from acquisitions, primarily GSI. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. General and administrative expenses increased $79 million , or 27% , during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same periods of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to an increase in payroll and related expenses and the impact of acquisitions, primarily GSI. 28 Provision for Transaction and Loan Losses Provision for transaction and loan losses consists primarily of transaction loss expense associated with our customer protection programs, fraud, chargebacks, and merchant credit losses; bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance; and loan loss reserves associated with our principal loan receivable balance. We expect our provision for transaction and loan loss expense to fluctuate depending on many factors, including macroeconomic conditions, our customer protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. Provision for transaction and loan losses increased $27 million , or 25% , during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was due primarily to higher transaction volume and growth in our BML portfolio of receivables from loans. The increase was partially offset by a reduction in our Marketplaces consumer protection program expense as a result of initiating certain loss prevention programs. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets From time to time we have purchased, and we expect to continue to purchase, assets and businesses. These purchase transactions generally result in the creation of acquired intangible assets with finite lives and lead to a corresponding increase in our amortization expense in periods subsequent to acquisition. We amortize intangible assets over the period of estimated benefit, using the straight-line method and estimated useful lives ranging from one to eight years. Amortization of acquired intangible assets is also impacted by our sales of assets and businesses and timing of acquired intangible assets becoming fully amortized. Amortization of acquired intangible assets increased by $40 million , or 91% , during the first quarter of 2012, compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to the impact of acquisitions, primarily GSI. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net, consists of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, our portion of operating results from investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, investment gain/loss on acquisitions and interest expense consisting of interest charges on our outstanding commercial paper and debt securities and on the amount drawn under our credit agreement, if any. Interest and other income, net excludes interest expense on borrowings incurred to finance Bill Me Later's portfolio of loan receivables, which is included in cost of net revenues. Interest and other, net increased $28 million during the first quarter of 2012 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in interest and other, net was due primarily to higher interest income, investment gains and a favorable impact from foreign currency activity, partially offset by losses from our equity method investments and higher interest expense. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 16.7% for the first quarter of 2012 , compared to 16.3% for the same period in the prior year. The slight increase in our effective tax rate during the first quarter of 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to the impact of discrete tax items during the quarter. From time to time, we engage in certain intercompany transactions and legal entity restructurings. We consider many factors when evaluating these transactions, including the alignment of our corporate structure with our organizational objectives and the operational and tax efficiency of our corporate structure, as well as the long-term cash flows and cash needs of our different businesses. These transactions may impact our overall tax rate and/or result in additional cash tax payments. The impact in any period may be significant. These transactions may be complex and the impact of such transactions on future periods may be difficult to estimate. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we cannot assure you that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, we believe it is impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. 29 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2012 2011 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 531 $ 700 Investing activities (893 ) (597 ) Financing activities (219 ) (339 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 54 123 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (527 ) $ (113 ) Operating Activities We generated cash from operating activities of $531 million and $700 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011 , respectively. Non-cash charges to earnings were $526 million and $419 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Non-cash charges to earnings included depreciation and amortization on our long-term assets, stock-based compensation and the provision for transaction and loan losses. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended March 31, 2012 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to cash paid for income taxes in the first three months of 2012 of $432 million , which were primarily associated with the gain on the sale of our remaining equity interest in Skype in October 2011, compared to $24 million in the first three months of 2011. Investing Activities The net cash used in investing activities of $893 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012 was due primarily to cash paid for the purchases of investments of $1 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $242 million , partially offset by proceeds of $408 million from the maturities and sale of investments. The net cash used in investing activities of $597 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 was due primarily to cash paid for the purchases of investments of $485 million, acquisition of a business of $191 million and purchases of property and equipment of $149 million, partially offset by proceeds of $230 million from the maturities and sale of investments. Financing Activities The net cash used in financing activities of $219 million in the three months ended March 31, 2012 was due primarily to cash outflows of $240 million to repurchase common stock as well as cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $118 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock units and awards. These cash outflows were partially offset by $85 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and $54 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The net cash used in financing activities of $339 million in the three months ended March 31, 2011 was due primarily to cash outflows of $357 million to repurchase common stock, as well as cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $109 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock awards and units. These cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $73 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and $54 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The positive effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 was due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Euro. Stock Repurchases In September 2010, our Board authorized a stock repurchase program that provides for the repurchase of up to $2 billion of our common stock, with no expiration from the date of authorization, for the purpose of offsetting the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs. During the three months ended March 31, 2012 , we repurchased approximately $240 30 million of our common stock under this stock repurchase program. As of March 31, 2012 , approximately $641 million remained for further repurchases of our common stock under this stock repurchase program. Shelf Registration Statement and Long-Term Debt At March 31, 2012 , we had an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue various types of debt securities, such as fixed or floating rate notes, U.S. dollar or foreign currency denominated notes, redeemable notes, global notes, and dual currency or other indexed notes. Issuances under the shelf registration will require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be issued. The registration statement does not limit the amount of debt securities that may be issued thereunder. Our ability to issue debt securities is subject to market conditions and other factors impacting our borrowing capacity, including our credit ratings and compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement. We have issued $1.5 billion of senior unsecured debt securities under the shelf registration statement in an underwritten public offering. These debt securities remain outstanding and consist of $400 million aggregate principal amount of 0.875% notes due 2013, $600 million aggregate principal amount of 1.625% notes due 2015 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.250% notes due 2020. Commercial Paper We have a $2 billion commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue in an aggregate principal amount of up to $2 billion at any time outstanding. As of March 31, 2012 , $550 million aggregate principal amount of commercial paper was outstanding, the weighted average interest rate on those notes was 0.16% per annum and the weighted average remaining term on our commercial paper notes was 56 days. Credit Agreement As of March 31, 2012 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under our $3 billion credit agreement. As described above, we have a $2 billion commercial paper program and maintain $2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they become due. As a result, at March 31, 2012 , $1 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. Notes Payable and Capital Lease Obligations In addition to the debt described above, as of March 31, 2012 , we had notes payable of $16 million and capital lease obligations of $24 million . Commitments As of March 31, 2012 , approximately $10 billion of unused credit was available to Bill Me Later accountholders. The individual lines of credit that make up this unused credit are subject to periodic review and termination by the chartered financial institution that is the issuer of Bill Me Later credit products based on, among other things, account usage and customer creditworthiness. Currently, when a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the receivables related to the consumer loans extended by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of the purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each customer account, we own the related receivable, and Bill Me Later is responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements At March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 , we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as time deposits and fixed income securities classified as short-term investments, in an aggregate amount of $8 billion. At March 31, 2012 , this amount included assets of these types held outside the U.S. in certain of our foreign operations totaling approximately $7 billion. If these assets were distributed to the U.S., we may be subject to additional U.S. taxes in certain circumstances. We actively monitor the third-party depository institutions and money market funds that hold these assets, primarily focusing on the safety of principal and secondarily maximizing yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various financial institutions and money market funds in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these financial institutions or money market funds fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not 31 experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited with third party financial institutions. These balances in the U.S. may exceed the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limits. While we monitor the cash balances in our operating accounts, these cash balances could be adversely impacted if the underlying financial institutions fail and could be subject to other adverse conditions in the financial markets. To the extent that our Bill Me Later products become more widely available through improved and more comprehensive product integrations with eBay, PayPal and other channels, and as we further promote Bill Me Later products, we expect customer adoption and usage of Bill Me Later products to expand. Any resulting growth in the portfolio of Bill Me Later loan receivables would increase our liquidity needs and any failure to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect the Bill Me Later business. We currently fund the expansion of the Bill Me Later portfolio of loan receivables with borrowings and domestic and international cash resources. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, Bill Me Later portfolio of receivables from loans and stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2012 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. In Europe, we have two cash pooling arrangements with a financial institution for cash management purposes. These arrangements allow for cash withdrawals from this financial institution based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held in Europe within the same financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). These arrangements also allow us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by the financial institution as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income. As of March 31, 2012 , we had a total of $5 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $5 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within the same financial institution under these cash pooling arrangements. Based on differences in regulatory requirements and commercial law in the jurisdictions where PayPal operates, PayPal holds customer balances either as direct claims against PayPal or as an agent or custodian on behalf of PayPal's customers. Customer funds held by PayPal as an agent or custodian on behalf of our customers are not reflected in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. These off-balance sheet funds totaled approximately $3 billion as of March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. These funds include funds held on behalf of U.S. customers that are deposited in bank accounts insured by the FDIC (subject to applicable limits). Additionally, please see the information in "Item 1A: Risk Factors" under the caption "If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices." Indemnification Provisions In the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations, including our standard marketing, promotions and application-programming-interface license agreements. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to our performance under the subject agreement. GSI has provided in many of its major ecommerce agreements an indemnity for other types of third-party claims, which are indemnities mainly related to various intellectual property rights, and we have provided similar indemnities in a limited number of agreements for our other businesses. In our PayPal business, we have provided an indemnity to our payment processors in the event of certain third-party claims or card association fines against the processor arising out of conduct by PayPal or PayPal customers. In connection with the sale of Skype Technologies, S.A. (Skype) in November 2009, we made certain customary warranties to the buyer in the purchase agreement. Our liability to the buyer for inaccuracies in these warranties is generally subject to certain limitations. With respect to certain specified litigation matters involving Skype that were pending as of the closing of the transaction, we also agreed, among other things, to 32 bear 50% of the cost of any monetary judgment that is rendered in respect of those matters. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively.