Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including statements that involve expectations, plans or intentions (such as those relating to future business, future results of operations or financial condition, the planned separation of our eBay and PayPal businesses into independent publicly traded companies, new or planned features or services, or management strategies). You can identify these forward-looking statements by words such as may, will, would, should, could, expect, anticipate, believe, estimate, intend, plan and other similar expressions. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in our forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties include, among others, those discussed in Part II Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as well as in our condensed consolidated financial statements, related notes, and the other information appearing elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. Given these risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. You should read the following Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in conjunction with the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this report. When we refer to we, our, us or eBay in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, we mean the current Delaware corporation (eBay Inc.) and its California predecessor, as well as all of our consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise expressly stated or the context otherwise requires. Overview We are a global technology company that enables commerce through three reportable segments: Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise. Our Marketplaces segment includes our eBay.com platform and its localized counterparts and our other online platforms, such as our online classifieds sites and StubHub. Our Payments segment is comprised of our PayPal business. Our Enterprise segment includes our Magento business and provides commerce technologies, omnichannel operations and marketing solutions for merchants of all sizes that operate in general merchandise categories. In January 2015, we announced that we will be exploring strategic options for eBay Enterprise, including a possible sale or partial sale, or IPO. On September 30, 2014, we announced that our Board of Directors, following a strategic review of our growth strategies and structure, has approved a plan to separate PayPal (consisting of our Payments segment) into an independent publicly traded company. We expect to complete the transaction as a tax-free spin-off in the second half of 2015, subject to market, regulatory, and certain other conditions. We also announced that Dan Schulman has been appointed as President of PayPal and CEO-designee of the standalone PayPal company following separation, and that Devin Wenig, currently president of eBay Marketplaces, will become CEO of eBay company following separation. We have also recently announced that, following the separation, we expect that Tom Tierney will become the Chairman of the Board of eBay Inc. and that John Donahoe will become the Chairman of the Board of PayPal Holdings, Inc. The separation is subject to risks, uncertainties and conditions and there can be no assurance that the separation will be completed on the terms or on the timing currently contemplated, or at all. Please see the information in Item 1A: Risk Factors under the heading Risk Factors Related to the Planned Separation, which describes some of the risks and uncertainties associated with the proposed separation. We expect to incur significant costs in connection with our planned separation of our PayPal business. These costs relate primarily to third-party advisory and consulting services, retention payments to certain employees, incremental stock-based compensation and other costs directly related to the separation. Costs related to employees for retention or stock-based compensation are classified on a basis consistent with their regular compensation charges and included within cost of net revenues, sales and marketing, product development or general and administrative in our consolidated statement of income as applicable. Costs other than those paid to employees are included within general and administrative in our consolidated statement of income. During the three months ended March 31, 2015, we incurred approximately $87 million related to separation costs. We expect to continue to incur additional separation costs in 2015 until we complete the separation of our PayPal business. We currently estimate that such additional separation costs will exceed $135 million, although that estimate is subject to a number of assumptions and uncertainties. 30 Net revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2015 increased 4% to $4.4 billion compared to the same period of the prior year, driven primarily by increases in net revenues from our PayPal segment. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , our operating margin decreased to 16% from 21% in the same period of the prior year due to higher general and administrative costs and a greater proportion of our revenue being derived from our Payments segment, which has lower margins than our Marketplaces segment. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , our diluted earnings per share increased to $0.51 , a $2.33 increase compared to the same period of the prior year, driven primarily by the accrual in 2014 of deferred taxes on $9.0 billion of undistributed foreign earnings for 2013 and prior years and, to a lesser extent, by growth in net revenues and a lower share count. For both the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, we generated cash flow from operations of $1.2 billion . Our Marketplaces segment total net revenues decreased $86 million , or 4% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. Gross Merchandise Volume (GMV) (as defined below) decreased 2% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease in total net revenues and GMV was driven primarily by a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Our Marketplaces segment operating margin decreased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to continued investments in our site operations and business initiatives. Our Payments segment total net revenues increased $263 million , or 14% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in total net revenues was driven primarily by an increase in net total payment volume (Net TPV) (as defined below) of 18% . Our Payments segment operating margin decreased by 0.5 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to increased provision for transaction and loan losses partially offset by a favorable transaction expense rate. Our Enterprise segment total net revenues increased $19 million , or 7% , for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in total net revenues was driven primarily by an increase in Gross Merchandise Sales (as defined below) of 8% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , our Enterprise segment operating margin was consistent with the same period of the prior year. We define GMV as the total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on Marketplaces platforms (excluding eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com) during the applicable period regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction; excludes vehicles and real estate gross merchandise volume. We believe that GMV provides a useful measure of the overall volume of closed transactions that flow through our Marketplaces trading platforms in a given period, notwithstanding the inclusion in GMV of closed transactions that are not ultimately consummated. We define Net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, Venmo and payments processed through Braintrees full stack payments platform during the period; excludes payments sent or received through PayPal's and Braintree's payment gateway businesses. We define Merchant Services Net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, Venmo and payments processed through Braintree's full stack payments platform, during the period; excludes PayPal's and Braintree's payment gateway businesses and payments for transactions on our Marketplaces platforms. We define On eBay Net TPV as the total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, during the period for transactions on our Marketplaces platforms. We define Gross Merchandise Sales as the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through our Enterprise commerce technologies, whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee; excludes volume transacted through the Magento platform. We define ECV as the total Marketplaces GMV, Payments Merchant Services Net TPV and eBay Enterprise Gross Merchandise Sales not earned on eBay or paid for via PayPal or PayPal Credit during the period; it excludes volume transacted through the Magento platform. 31 Results of Operations Summary of Net Revenues We generate two types of net revenues: net transaction revenues and marketing services and other revenues. Our net transaction revenues are derived principally from listing fees and final value fees (which are fees payable on transactions closed on our Marketplaces platforms), fees paid by merchants for payment processing services and ecommerce service fees. Our marketing services revenues are derived principally from the sale of advertisements, revenue sharing arrangements, classifieds fees, marketing service fees and lead referral fees. Other revenues are derived principally from interest and fees earned on the PayPal Credit portfolio of receivables from loans, interest earned on certain PayPal customer account balances and fees from contractual arrangements with third parties that provide services to our users. The following table sets forth the breakdown of net revenues by type and geography for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (In millions) Net Revenues by Type: Net transaction revenues Marketplaces $ 1,672 $ 1,727 Payments 1,940 1,700 Enterprise 224 208 Total net transaction revenues 3,836 3,635 Marketing services and other revenues Marketplaces 397 428 Payments 168 145 Enterprise 64 61 Total marketing services and other revenues 629 634 Elimination of inter-segment net revenue (1) (17 ) (7 ) Total net revenues $ 4,448 $ 4,262 Net Revenues by Geography: U.S. $ 2,149 $ 1,998 International 2,299 2,264 Total net revenues $ 4,448 $ 4,262 (1) Represents net revenue generated between our reportable segments. Revenues are attributed to U.S. and international geographies based primarily upon the country in which the seller, payment recipient, customer, website that displays advertising, or other service provider, as the case may be, is located. Because we generated a majority of our net revenues internationally in recent periods, including the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , we are subject to the risks of doing business in foreign countries as discussed under "Part II - Item 1A - Risk Factors." In that regard, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our results of operations. We have a foreign exchange risk management program that is designed to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currencies; however, the effectiveness of this program in mitigating the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on our results of operations varies from period to period, and in any given period our operating results are usually affected, sometimes significantly, by changes in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates also directly affect our cross-border revenue. We calculate the year-over-year impact of foreign currency movements on our business using prior period foreign currency rates applied to current year transactional currency amounts. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net revenues by $234 million (inclusive of a positive impact of approximately $50 million from hedging activities included in Payments net revenue). On a business segment basis, for the three months ended March 31, 2015 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted Marketplaces, Payments, and Enterprise net revenues by approximately $152 32 million , $80 million , and $2 million , respectively (net of the positive impact of hedging activities noted above in the case of Payments net revenues). The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, certain key operating metrics that we believe are significant factors affecting our net revenues: Three Months Ended March 31, Percent 2015 2014 Change (In millions, except percentage changes) Supplemental Operating Data: Marketplaces Segment: (1) GMV (2) $ 20,195 $ 20,545 (2 )% Marketplaces Transaction Take Rate (3) 8.28 % 8.41 % (0.13 )% Payments Segment: Merchant Services Net TPV (4) $ 46,732 $ 37,162 26 % On eBay Net TPV (5) $ 14,681 $ 14,844 (1 )% Net TPV (6) $ 61,413 $ 52,006 18 % Payments Take Rate (7) 3.43 % 3.55 % (0.12 )% Enterprise Segment: Gross Merchandise Sales (8) $ 1,014 $ 936 8 % Enterprise Transaction Take Rate (9) 22.09 % 22.22 % (0.13 )% (1) eBay's classifieds websites, brands4friends and Shopping.com are not included in these metrics. (2) Total value of all successfully closed transactions between users on Marketplaces platforms during the applicable period regardless of whether the buyer and seller actually consummated the transaction; excludes vehicles and real estate gross merchandise volume. (3) Total net transaction revenues earned through our Marketplaces segment, divided by Gross Merchandise Volume. (4) Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, Venmo and payments processed through Braintree's full stack payments platform, during the period; excludes PayPal's and Braintree's payment gateway businesses and payments for transactions on our Marketplaces platforms. (5) Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, during the period for transactions on our Marketplaces platforms. (6) Total dollar volume of payments, net of payment reversals, successfully completed through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, Venmo and payments processed through Braintrees full stack payments platform during the period; excludes payments sent or received through PayPal's and Braintrees payment gateway businesses. (7) Total net revenues earned through our payments networks, including PayPal Credit, Braintree, Venmo, PayPals payment gateway business, subscription fees and other net revenues, divided by Net TPV. (8) Represents the retail value of all sales transactions, inclusive of freight charges and net of allowance for returns and discounts, which flow through our Enterprise commerce technologies, whether we record the full amount of such transaction as a product sale or a percentage of such transaction as a service fee; excludes volume transacted through the Magento platform. (9) Total net transaction revenues earned through our Enterprise segment, divided by Gross Merchandise Sales. 33 Seasonality The following table sets forth, for the periods presented, our total net revenues and the sequential quarterly movements of these net revenues: Three Months Ended March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 (In millions, except percentage changes) 2013 Net revenues $ 3,748 $ 3,877 $ 3,892 $ 4,530 Percent change from prior quarter (6 )% 3 % 0 % 16 % 2014 Net revenues $ 4,262 $ 4,366 $ 4,353 $ 4,921 Percent change from prior quarter (6 )% 2 % 0 % 13 % 2015 Net revenues $ 4,448 Percent change from prior quarter (10 )% % % % We expect transaction activity patterns on our websites to mirror general consumer buying patterns. Our Enterprise segment is highly seasonal. The fourth calendar quarter typically accounts for a disproportionate amount of Enterprise's total annual revenues because consumers increase their purchases and businesses increase their advertising to consumers in the fourth quarter holiday season. We expect that these trends will continue. Marketplaces Net Transaction Revenues Marketplaces net transaction revenues decreased $55 million , or 3% , while GMV decreased 2% during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year. The decrease in total net transaction revenues and GMV was driven primarily by a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. The Marketplaces transaction take rate was lower during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period in the prior year due to a shift in geographical and vertical mix to transactions with a lower take rate. Marketplaces net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $923 million and $995 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively, representing 55% and 58% of total Marketplaces net transaction revenues during those respective periods. Payments Net Transaction Revenues Payments net transaction revenues increased $240 million , or 14% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to an increase in Net TPV of 18% . The growth in Payments net transaction revenues was lower than the growth in Net TPV due to a lower take rate. The increase in Net TPV was due primarily to growth in consumer and merchant use of PayPal and growth in volume through our Braintree products. The lower take rate was due primarily to a higher portion of Merchant Services volume. Merchant Services volume includes a higher concentration of Net TPV from larger merchants who generate higher volume at lower take rates. Additionally, Merchant Services volume includes Net TPV generated through our unbranded products such as Braintree where we generally earn lower take rates. We expect the concentration of Merchant Services volume to continue to increase. Our Merchant Services Net TPV increased 26% during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, and represented 76% of PayPal's Net TPV for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to 71% in the same period of the prior year. On eBay Net TPV decreased 1% during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, and represented 24% of PayPal's Net TPV for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to 29% in the same period of the prior year. Payments net transaction revenues earned internationally totaled $1.1 billion and $950 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, representing 56% of total Payments net transaction revenues during those respective periods. 34 Enterprise Net Transaction Revenues Enterprise net transaction revenues increased $16 million , or 8% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, due primarily to an 8% increase in Gross Merchandise Sales. Marketing Services and Other Revenues Marketing services and other revenues decreased $5 million , or 1% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year, and represented 14% and 15% of total net revenues during those respective periods. The decrease was driven primarily by a negative impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. The decrease was offset by an increase due primarily to growth in our PayPal Credit portfolio of receivables from loans, as well as increased revenue from advertising. Summary of Cost of Net Revenues The following table summarizes changes in cost of net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change from 2014 to 2015 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentages) Cost of net revenues: Marketplaces $ 419 $ 404 $ 15 4 % As a percentage of total Marketplaces net revenues 20.3 % 18.7 % Payments 820 744 76 10 % As a percentage of total Payments net revenues 38.9 % 40.3 % Enterprise 211 200 11 6 % As a percentage of total Enterprise net revenues 73.3 % 74.3 % Corporate and other 3 (3 ) (100 )% Total cost of net revenues $ 1,450 $ 1,351 $ 99 7 % As a percentage of net revenues 32.6 % 31.7 % Cost of net revenues consists primarily of costs associated with payment processing, customer support, site operations, and fulfillment. Significant components of these costs include bank transaction fees, credit card interchange and assessment fees, interest expense on indebtedness incurred to finance the purchase of consumer loan receivables related to PayPal Credit accounts, employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment and amortization expense. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted cost of net revenues by $60 million (inclusive of a positive impact of approximately $6 million from hedging activities). For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted Marketplaces, Payments, and Enterprise cost of net revenues by approximately $24 million , $40 million , and $2 million , respectively, and negatively impacted Corporate and other by $6 million . Marketplaces Marketplaces cost of net revenues increased $15 million , or 4% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to continued investment in our site operations and data centers. Marketplaces cost of net revenues as a percentage of Marketplaces net revenues increased by 1.6 percentage points during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period in the prior year. Payments Payments cost of net revenues increased $76 million or 10% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to the impact of growth in Net TPV offset in part by favorable transaction expense rates. Payments cost of net revenues as a percentage of Payments net revenues decreased by 1.4 percentage points during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period in the prior year. 35 Enterprise Enterprise cost of net revenues increased $11 million or 6% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was due primarily to the increase in Gross Merchandise Sales. Enterprise cost of net revenues as a percentage of Enterprise net revenues decreased by 1.0 percentage points during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period in the prior year. Summary of Operating Expenses, Non-Operating Items and Provision for Income Taxes The following table summarizes changes in operating expenses, non-operating items and provision for income taxes for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, Change from 2014 to 2015 2015 2014 in Dollars in % (In millions, except percentage changes) Sales and marketing $ 794 $ 805 (11 ) (1 )% Product development 485 480 5 1 % General and administrative 665 465 200 43 % Provision for transaction and loan losses 264 204 60 29 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 58 79 (21 ) (27 )% Interest and other, net 8 (5 ) 13 (260 )% Provision for income taxes (114 ) (3,199 ) 3,085 (96 )% The following table summarizes operating expenses, non-operating items and provision for income taxes as a percentage of net revenues for the periods presented: Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 Sales and marketing 18 % 19 % Product development 11 % 11 % General and administrative 15 % 11 % Provision for transaction and loan losses 6 % 5 % Amortization of acquired intangible assets 1 % 2 % Interest and other, net % % Provision for income taxes 3 % 75 % For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted operating expenses by $98 million (inclusive of a positive impact of approximately $14 million from hedging activities). For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted Marketplaces, Payments, and Enterprise operating expenses by approximately $61 million , $34 million , and $3 million , respectively. Sales and Marketing Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of advertising costs and marketing programs (both online and offline), employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Online marketing expenses represent traffic acquisition costs in various channels such as paid search, affiliates marketing and display advertising. Offline advertising includes brand campaigns, buyer/seller communications and general public relations expenses. Sales and marketing expenses decreased $11 million , or 1% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease in sales and marketing expense was due primarily to the impact from foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar. Sales and marketing expense as a percentage of net revenues was 18% and 19% , respectively, for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 . 36 Product Development Product development expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs and depreciation on equipment. Product development expenses are net of required capitalization of major site and other product development efforts, including the development of our next generation platform architecture, migration of certain platforms, seller tools and Payments services projects. Our top technology priorities include mobile, user experience, search, platform and products. Capitalized internal use and website development costs were $96 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to $80 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 and are primarily reflected as a cost of net revenues when amortized in future periods. Product development expenses increased $5 million , or 1% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year due primarily to higher employee-related costs. Product development expenses as a percentage of net revenues were 11% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, contractor costs, facilities costs, depreciation of equipment, employer payroll taxes on stock-based compensation, legal expenses, restructuring, insurance premiums and professional fees. Our legal expenses, including those related to various ongoing legal proceedings, may fluctuate substantially from period to period. General and administrative expenses increased $200 million , or 43% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase was due primarily to restructuring costs related to our global workforce reduction and costs related to our planned separation of our PayPal business (as discussed in Overview above). In January 2015, at a regular meeting of our Board of Directors (the Board), the Board approved a plan to implement a strategic reduction of our existing global workforce. As a result, we are reducing our workforce globally. The reduction is expected to be substantially completed in the first half of 2015. See Note 15 - Restructuring to the condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net revenues were 15% and 11% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Provision for Transaction and Loan Losses Provision for transaction and loan losses consists primarily of transaction loss expense associated with our customer protection programs, fraud and chargebacks; credit losses associated with our consumer and merchant loan receivables; and bad debt expense associated with our accounts receivable balance. We expect our provision for transaction and loan loss expense to fluctuate depending on many factors, including macroeconomic conditions, our customer protection programs and the impact of regulatory changes. Provision for transaction and loan losses increased $60 million , or 29% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. Provision for transaction and loan losses as a percentage of net revenues was 6% and 5% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 and 2014 , respectively. Marketplaces provision for transaction losses increased by $6 million , or 10% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 , compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was driven primarily by changes in our buyer protection programs, partially offset by improvements in bad debt rates. Payments provision for transaction and loan losses increased by $48 million , or 34% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was due primarily to higher transaction volume. The increase was also due to growth in our PayPal Credit portfolio of receivables from consumer loans. Modifications to our PayPal Credit acceptable risk parameters did not have a material impact on our provision for loan losses. 37 Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets From time to time we have purchased, and we expect to continue to purchase, assets and businesses. These purchase transactions generally result in the creation of acquired intangible assets with finite lives and lead to a corresponding increase in our amortization expense in periods subsequent to acquisition. We amortize intangible assets over the period of estimated benefit, using the straight-line method and estimated useful lives ranging from one to eight years. Amortization of acquired intangible assets is also impacted by our sales of assets and businesses and timing of acquired intangible assets becoming fully amortized. See "Note 3 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to our condensed consolidated financial statements included in this report. Amortization of acquired intangible assets decreased by $21 million , or 27% , during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The decrease was due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized during 2014. Interest and Other, Net Interest and other, net consists primarily of interest earned on cash, cash equivalents and investments, as well as foreign exchange transaction gains and losses, our portion of operating results from investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting, investment gain/loss on acquisitions and interest expense, consisting of interest charges on any amounts borrowed and commitment fees on unborrowed amounts under our credit agreement and interest expense on our outstanding debt securities and commercial paper, if any. Interest and other, net excludes interest expense on borrowings incurred to finance PayPal Credit's portfolio of loan receivables, which is included in cost of net revenues. Interest and other, net increased $13 million during the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in interest and other, net was due primarily to a favorable impact from foreign currency activity. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 15.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to 366.4% for the same period in the prior year. The decrease in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to the same period of the prior year was due primarily to the prior year accrual of U.S. income and applicable foreign taxes on $9 billion of undistributed foreign earnings for 2013 and prior years which were no longer considered indefinitely reinvested. Without this accrual, our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2014 would have been 18.3%. The 2.9 percentage point decrease in our effective tax rate for the three months ended March 31, 2015 compared to our effective tax rate (excluding the foregoing accrual) for the same period in the prior year was due primarily to changes in the mix of earnings and discrete items. From time to time, we engage in certain intercompany transactions and legal entity restructurings. We consider many factors when evaluating these transactions, including the alignment of our corporate structure with our organizational objectives and the operational and tax efficiency of our corporate structure, as well as the long-term cash flows and cash needs of our different businesses. These transactions may impact our overall tax rate and/or result in additional cash tax payments. The impact in any period may be significant. These transactions may be complex and the impact of such transactions on future periods may be difficult to estimate. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities both domestically and internationally. We believe that adequate amounts have been reserved for any adjustments that may ultimately result from these examinations, although we can provide no assurances that this will be the case given the inherent uncertainties in these examinations. Due to the ongoing tax examinations, we believe it is impractical to determine the amount and timing of these adjustments. 38 Liquidity and Capital Resources Cash Flows Three Months Ended March 31, 2015 2014 (In millions) Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities $ 1,151 $ 1,174 Investing activities (724 ) 532 Financing activities (985 ) (1,793 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (297 ) 8 Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (855 ) $ (79 ) Operating Activities The net cash provided by operating activities of $1.2 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was due primarily to net income of $626 million with adjustments of $381 million in depreciation and amortization, $264 million in provision for transaction and loan losses and $185 million in stock-based compensation and a decrease of $87 million in deferred income taxes and $218 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects. The net cash provided by operating activities of $1.2 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2014 was due primarily to net loss of $2.3 billion with adjustments of $382 million in depreciation and amortization, $204 million in provision for transaction and loan losses, $149 million in stock-based compensation and $3.1 billion in deferred income taxes and a decrease of $343 million in changes in assets and liabilities, net of acquisition effects. Investing Activities The net cash used in investing activities of $724 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was due primarily to cash paid for purchases of investments of $2.4 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $322 million , partially offset by proceeds of $2.0 billion from the maturities and sale of investments. The net cash provided by investing activities of $532 million in the three months ended March 31, 2014 was due primarily to proceeds of $2.0 billion from the maturities and sale of investments, partially offset by cash paid for the purchases of investments of $1.3 billion and purchases of property and equipment of $206 million . Financing Activities The net cash used in financing activities of $985 million in the three months ended March 31, 2015 was due primarily to cash outflows of $1.0 billion to repurchase common stock and cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $51 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock units and awards. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows of $38 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and the effect of $28 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The net cash used in financing activities of $1.8 billion in the three months ended March 31, 2014 was due primarily to cash outflows of $1.8 billion to repurchase common stock and cash paid for tax withholdings in the amount of $104 million related to net share settlements of restricted stock units and awards. These cash outflows were partially offset by cash inflows of $55 million from the issuance of common stock in connection with the exercise of stock options and the effect of $60 million of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. The negative effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents during the three months ended March 31, 2015 was due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other currencies, primarily the Euro. 39 Stock Repurchases In January 2014, our Board authorized a stock repurchase program that provided for the repurchase of up to an additional $5 billion of our common stock, with no expiration from the date of authorization. In January 2015, our Board authorized an additional $2 billion stock repurchase program, with no expiration from the date of authorization. The stock repurchase programs are intended to offset the impact of dilution from our equity compensation programs and, subject to market conditions and other factors, to make opportunistic repurchases of our common stock to reduce outstanding share count. Any share repurchases under our stock repurchase programs may be made through open market transactions, block trades, privately negotiated transactions (including accelerated share repurchase transactions) or other means at times and in such amounts as management deems appropriate and will be funded from our working capital or other financing alternatives. During the three months ended March 31, 2015 , we repurchased approximately $1.0 billion of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. As of March 31, 2015 , a total of approximately $2.0 billion remained available for future repurchases of our common stock under our January 2015 repurchase program. We expect, subject to market conditions and other uncertainties, to continue making opportunistic repurchases of our common stock. However, our stock repurchase programs may be limited or terminated at any time without prior notice. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors including corporate and regulatory requirements, price and other market conditions and managements determination as to the appropriate use of our cash. Shelf Registration Statement and Long-Term Debt At March 31, 2015 , we had an effective shelf registration statement on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to issue various types of debt securities, as well as common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares representing fractional interest in shares of preferred stock, purchase contracts and units from time to time in one or more offerings. Each issuance under the shelf registration statement will require the filing of a prospectus supplement identifying the amount and terms of the securities to be issued. The registration statement does not limit the amount of securities that may be issued thereunder. Our ability to issue securities is subject to market conditions and other factors including, in the case of our debt securities, our credit ratings and compliance with the covenants in our credit agreement. In July 2014, we issued $3.5 billion of senior unsecured notes, or senior notes, in an underwritten public offering. These senior notes remain outstanding and consist of $450 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due 2017, $400 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate notes due 2019, $1.15 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.2% notes due 2019, $750 million aggregate principal amount of 2.875% notes due 2021 and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.45% notes due 2024. The net proceeds from the sale of these senior notes were used for general corporate purposes, including, among other things, the repayment of outstanding commercial paper borrowings. To help achieve our interest rate risk management objectives, in connection with the July 2014 issuance of senior unsecured notes, we entered into interest rate swap agreements that effectively converted $2.4 billion of those fixed rate notes to floating rate debt based on the London InterBank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus a spread. These swaps were designated as fair value hedges against changes in the fair value of certain fixed rate senior notes resulting from changes in interest rates. We previously issued senior notes in underwritten public offerings under prior registration statements, of which $250 million aggregate principal amount of 0.70% notes due 2015, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 1.35% notes due 2017, $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.60% notes due 2022, $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.00% notes due 2042, $600 million aggregate principal amount of 1.625% notes due 2015 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.250% notes due 2020 remained outstanding as of March 31, 2015 . The indenture pursuant to which the senior notes were issued includes customary covenants that, among other things and subject to exceptions, limit our ability to incur, assume or guarantee debt secured by liens on specified assets or enter into sale and lease-back transactions with respect to specified properties, and also includes customary events of default. Commercial Paper We have a $2 billion commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue commercial paper notes with maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issue in an aggregate principal amount of up to $2 billion at any time outstanding. As of March 31, 2015 , there were no commercial paper notes outstanding. We have in the past used proceeds from the issuance of commercial paper notes for general corporate purposes, including funding share repurchases. We may elect, subject to market conditions, to issue additional commercial paper notes from time to time in the future. 40 Credit Agreement As of March 31, 2015 , no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under our $3 billion credit agreement. As described above, we have an up to $2 billion commercial paper program and maintain $2 billion of available borrowing capacity under our credit agreement in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they become due. As a result, at March 31, 2015 , $1 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit agreement. The credit agreement contains customary representations, warranties, affirmative and negative covenants, including a financial covenant, events of default and indemnification provisions in favor of the banks. The negative covenants include restrictions regarding the incurrence of liens, subject to certain exceptions. The financial covenant requires us to meet a quarterly financial test with respect to a minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio. Other Indebtedness In addition to the debt described above, as of March 31, 2015 , we had $18 million of borrowings outstanding under our overdraft facilities. We were in compliance with all covenants in our outstanding debt instruments for the three-month period ended March 31, 2015 . Credit Ratings As of January 1, 2014, our long-term debt and short-term funding were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated A, short-term rated A-1, with a stable outlook), Moody's Investor Service (long-term rated A2, short-term rated P-1, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated A, short-term rated F1, with a stable outlook). Following the September 2014 announcement of our planned separation of our PayPal business, Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC and Moody's Investor Service placed our long-term debt and short-term funding ratings under review with negative implications, while Fitch Ratings, Inc. downgraded our long-term debt from A to A- and short-term funding from F1 to F2, retaining our investment grade status, and placed the long-term rating under review with negative implications. As of April 1, 2015, Fitch Ratings, Inc. affirmed the short-term funding rating at F2. We did not experience any material operational, funding, or liquidity impacts from this rating downgrade. We expect that these credit rating agencies will continue to monitor developments in our planned separation of PayPal, including the capital structure for each company after separation, which could result in additional downgrades. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and because downgrades would likely increase our borrowing costs we disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. In addition, to assist PayPal in our planned separation we are currently working with credit rating agencies to obtain separate credit ratings for PayPal and we believe that immediately following separation both eBay and PayPal will be rated investment grade. Commitments As of March 31, 2015 , approximately $21.5 billion of unused credit was available to PayPal Credit accountholders. While this amount represents the total unused credit available, we have not experienced, and do not anticipate, that all of our PayPal Credit accountholders will access their entire available credit at any given point in time. In addition, the individual lines of credit that make up this unused credit are subject to periodic review and termination by the chartered financial institutions that are the issuers of PayPal Credit products based on, among other things, account usage and customer creditworthiness. When a consumer makes a purchase using a PayPal Credit product, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the consumer receivables related to the consumer loans and as a result of that purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. However, we subsequently sell a participation interest in the entire pool of consumer loans to the chartered financial institution that extended the consumer loans. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own the customer accounts, we own and bear the risk of loss on the related consumer receivables, less the participation interest held by the chartered financial institution, and PayPal Credit is responsible for all servicing functions related to the customer account balances. As of March 31, 2015 , the total outstanding principal balance on this pool of consumer loans was $3.6 billion , of which the chartered financial institution owned a participation interest of $169 million , or 4.63% of the total outstanding balance of the consumer loans as of that date. 41 Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements As of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 , we had assets classified as cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, in an aggregate amount of $14.1 billion and $14.6 billion , respectively. As of March 31, 2015 , $10.0 billion of our cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, was held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries. Of the $10.0 billion held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries, approximately $8.0 billion was available for use in the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. income taxes in excess of the amounts already accrued in our financial statements as of March 31, 2015. The remaining amount of non-U.S. cash and cash equivalents, as well as short-term and long-term non-equity investments, have been indefinitely reinvested and, therefore, no U.S. current or deferred taxes have been accrued as this amount is necessary to support our planned ongoing investments in our foreign operations. We believe our U.S. sources of cash and liquidity are sufficient to meet our business needs in the U.S., and we do not expect that we will need to repatriate the funds we have designated as indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S. Under current tax laws, should our plans change and we were to choose to repatriate some or all of the funds we have designated as indefinitely reinvested outside the U.S., such amounts would be subject to U.S. income taxes and applicable non-U.S. income and withholding taxes. In connection with our planned separation of PayPal, we are reviewing our capital allocation strategy to ensure that each of PayPal and eBay will be well capitalized at separation. As part of this strategy, we expect to contribute approximately $3.5 billion of cash to PayPal prior to separation. This contribution is expected to consist of both domestic and international cash, but no final decision has been made regarding the amount of the contribution or its allocation between domestic and international sources. We actively monitor all counterparties that hold our cash and cash equivalents and non-equity investments, focusing primarily on the safety of principal and secondarily on improving yield on these assets. We diversify our cash and cash equivalents and investments among various counterparties in order to reduce our exposure should any one of these counterparties fail or encounter difficulties. To date, we have not experienced any material loss or lack of access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments; however, we can provide no assurances that access to our invested cash, cash equivalents or short-term investments will not be impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets. At any point in time we have funds in our operating accounts and customer accounts that are deposited and invested with third party financial institutions. We currently fund the expansion of the PayPal Credit portfolio of loan receivables with domestic and international cash resources and borrowings. To the extent that our PayPal Credit or other credit products become more widely available through improved and more comprehensive product integrations with eBay, PayPal and other channels, and as we further promote PayPal Credit or other credit products, customer adoption and usage of such products may expand. Any resulting growth in the portfolio of PayPal Credit or other loan receivables would increase our liquidity needs and any failure to meet those liquidity needs could adversely affect the PayPal Credit products. In April 2015, we concluded an arrangement with certain investors under which we have agreed to sell a participation interest of approximately $700 million in a portion of our purchased consumer receivables arising from loans made by our partner chartered financial institutions to individual consumers to purchase goods and services using our PayPal Credit products. This transaction, which is subject to customary closing conditions, is expected to close in the second quarter of 2015. We will continue to consider alternative sources of funding of our credit portfolio through our strategic and financial partners. In June 2014, we agreed, subject to certain conditions, that PayPal, one of its affiliates or a third party partner will purchase a portfolio of consumer loan receivables relating to the customer accounts arising out of our current credit program agreement with Synchrony (formerly GE Capital Retail Bank) for a price based on the book value of the consumer loan receivables portfolio at the time of the purchase (expected to be October 2016), subject to certain adjustments and exclusions. As of December 31, 2014, Synchrony had a net receivables portfolio under the credit program agreement of approximately $1.5 billion. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments, together with cash expected to be generated from operations, borrowings available under our credit agreement and commercial paper program, and our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to fund our operating activities, anticipated capital expenditures, PayPal Credit portfolio of loan receivables and stock repurchases for the foreseeable future. 42 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2015 , we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or future material effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. We have various cash pooling arrangements with financial institutions for cash management purposes. These arrangements allow for cash withdrawals from these financial institutions based upon our aggregate operating cash balances held within the same financial institution (Aggregate Cash Deposits). These arrangements also allow us to withdraw amounts exceeding the Aggregate Cash Deposits up to an agreed-upon limit. The net balance of the withdrawals and the Aggregate Cash Deposits are used by these financial institutions as a basis for calculating our net interest expense or income under these arrangements. As of March 31, 2015 , we had a total of $7.2 billion in cash withdrawals offsetting our $7.2 billion in Aggregate Cash Deposits held within these financial institutions under these cash pooling arrangements. Indemnification Provisions In the ordinary course of business, we have included limited indemnification provisions in certain of our agreements with parties with which we have commercial relations, including our standard marketing, promotions and application-programming-interface license agreements. Under these contracts, we generally indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse the indemnified party for losses suffered or incurred by the indemnified party in connection with claims by a third party with respect to our domain names, trademarks, logos and other branding elements to the extent that such marks are applicable to our performance under the subject agreement. In certain cases, we have agreed to provide indemnification for intellectual property infringement. Our Enterprise business has provided in many of its major ecommerce agreements an indemnity for other types of third-party claims, which are indemnities mainly related to various intellectual property rights, and we have provided similar indemnities in a limited number of agreements for our other businesses, including our Magento business. In our PayPal business, we have provided an indemnity to our payment processors in the event of certain third-party claims or card association fines against the processor arising out of conduct by PayPal or PayPal customers. PayPal has also provided a limited indemnity to merchants using its retail point of sale payment services and to manufacturers of its point of sale devices (e.g., the PayPal Here devices and the Beacon device). In addition, Bill Me Later has provided indemnification provisions in its agreements with the chartered financial institutions that issue its credit products. It is not possible to determine the maximum potential loss under these indemnification provisions due to our limited history of prior indemnification claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular provision. To date, losses recorded in our consolidated statement of income in connection with our indemnification provisions have not been significant, either individually or collectively. Critical Accounting Policies, Judgments and Estimates General The preparation of our consolidated financial statements and related notes requires us to make judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Refer to the critical accounting policies, judgments and estimates under Item 7, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, where we discuss additional significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. Goodwill and Intangible Assets The purchase price of an acquired company is allocated between intangible assets and the net tangible assets of the acquired business with the residual of the purchase price recorded as goodwill. The determination of the value of the intangible assets acquired involves certain judgments and estimates. These judgments can include, but are not limited to, the cash flows that an asset is expected to generate in the future and the appropriate weighted average cost of capital. At March 31, 2015, our goodwill totaled $9.0 billion and our identifiable intangible assets, net totaled $481 million. We assess the impairment of goodwill of our reporting units annually, or more often if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at the reporting unit level by first performing a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value. If the reporting unit does not pass the qualitative assessment, then the reporting unit's carrying value is 43 compared to its fair value. The fair values of the reporting units are estimated using market and discounted cash flow approaches. Goodwill is considered impaired if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value. The discounted cash flow approach uses expected future operating results. The market approach uses comparable company information to determine revenue and earnings multiples to value our reporting units. Failure to achieve these expected results or market multiples may cause a future impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit. We conducted our annual impairment test of goodwill as of August 31, 2014 and 2013. In January 2015, we announced that we will be exploring strategic options for our eBay Enterprise business, including a possible sale or partial sale, or IPO. In connection with the process of exploring strategic options, we developed an updated forecast for our eBay Enterprise business which indicated lower results than our prior forecast developed in 2014. As a result of the decline in forecasted results at our eBay Enterprise business, we assessed the business for potential impairment of goodwill at the reporting unit level, as of March 31, 2015. The fair value of eBay Enterprise was estimated using the discounted cash flow approach based on the expected future operating results from the latest forecast prepared in the quarter ended March 31, 2015. The results of the interim impairment assessment as of March 31, 2015, indicate eBay Enterprises fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 8%. Among our reporting units, the fair value of eBay Enterprise is the closest to its carrying value and is most sensitive to changes in assumptions. We continue to explore strategic options and have made no decisions regarding what option we intend to pursue and have not committed to any particular plan. If the expected fair value received in a disposition of our eBay Enterprise business is less than its carrying value, a Goodwill impairment charge will be realized. See Note 3 - Goodwill and Intangible Assets to the consolidated financial statements included in this report.