ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of eGains financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Overview eGain automates customer engagement with an innovative knowledge hub, powered by conversational AI and analytics. We sell mostly to large enterprises across financial services, telecommunications, retail, government, healthcare, and utilities. That is, organizations seeking to better serve customers at scale while coping with content silos, process complexity, and regulatory compliance. With our mantra of AX + BX + CX = DX , we guide clients to effortless digital experience (DX) by holistically optimizing agent experience (AX), business experience (BX) and customer experience (CX). Leading brands use eGains cloud software to improve customer satisfaction, empower agents, reduce service cost, and boost sales. We are headquartered in the United States. We also operate in United Kingdom and India. We have transitioned from a hybrid model, where we sold both SaaS and perpetual license solutions, to a SaaS only business model. Today, we only sell SaaS to new clients and are actively migrating our remaining perpetual license clients to SaaS. As we continue to migrate our legacy perpetual license clients to SaaS, we expect our legacy revenue, primarily comprising annual maintenance and support fees for legacy perpetual license clients to continue to decline. We believe our go-forward SaaS business model affords us recurring revenue visibility and more predictability. Fiscal year 2022 affirmed our view that SaaS clients adopt our product innovation much faster than the perpetual license model and get better service levels. We believe SaaS clients enjoy up to 50% faster time to value from their eGain investment. COVID-19 Since early 2020, several public health organizations have recommended, and many local governments have implemented, certain measures to slow and limit the transmission of COVID-19, including shelter-in-place and social distancing orders, which has resulted in a significant deterioration of economic conditions in the countries in which we operate. The impact of COVID-19 and the related disruptions caused to the global economy and our business did not have a material adverse impact on our business during the year ended June 30, 2022. However, the ongoing spread of the COVID-19 virus, including new variants, current availability of COVID-19 vaccinations, and recent lockdown orders in China, caused us to adapt and modify our business practices, including implementing hybrid work model policies and limiting travel by our employees, among other things. In response to the ongoing spread of COVID-19, we have taken the following measures to date: Implemented hybrid work model and social distancing policies throughout our organization ; Limited employee travel ; Cancelled certain sales and marketing events; and Looked to our customers needs to best support their operations during this crisis. The effect of the COVID-19 pandemic, may not be fully reflective in our results of operations and overall financial performance until further periods, if at all. The impact, if any, of operational changes we may implement is uncertain, 33 Table of Contents but changes we have implemented as of the filing date have not affected and are not expected to affect our ability to maintain operations. We will continuously monitor the situation to determine what actions may be necessary or appropriate to address the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which may include actions mandated or recommended by federal, state or local government authorities. See our Risk Factors for further discussion of the possible impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business. Key Financial Measures We monitor the key financial performance measures set forth below as well as cash and cash equivalents and available debt capacity, which are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, to help us evaluate trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational effectiveness and efficiencies. SaaS Revenues With our transition to a SaaS only business model, we believe SaaS revenue better reflects our business momentum and to analyze progress and thus, we disaggregate our subscription revenue growth between: SaaS revenue, which is defined as revenue from cloud delivery arrangements, term licenses and embedded OEM royalties and associated support; and Legacy revenue, which is defined as revenue from license, maintenance and support contracts on perpetual license arrangements that we no longer sell. The following table presents a break out of subscription revenue between SaaS and legacy revenues for each of the following periods: Fiscal Year Ended June 30 2022 2021 Change Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) SaaS revenue $ 80,904 $ 66,929 $ 13,975 21 % Legacy revenue 3,653 5,442 (1,789) (33) % Total SaaS and legacy revenue $ 84,557 $ 72,371 $ 12,186 As we continue to migrate our legacy perpetual license clients to SaaS, we expect our legacy revenue to continue to decline. SaaS and Professional Services Revenue As we continue to shift to a SaaS only business model, substantially all of professional services revenue is now generated from our SaaS customer base. We believe the combination of SaaS and professional services revenue is a useful measure to value our business on a forward-looking basis. The following table presents total SaaS and professional services revenue for each of the following periods: Fiscal Year Ended June 30 2022 2021 Change Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) SaaS revenue $ 80,904 $ 66,929 $ 13,975 21 % Professional services 7,394 5,916 1,478 25 % Total SaaS and professional services revenue $ 88,298 $ 72,845 $ 15,453 34 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Operating Income Non-GAAP operating income is defined as (loss) income from operations, adjusted for the impact of stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangible assets. Management believes that it is useful to exclude certain non-cash charges and non-core operational charges from non-GAAP operating income because (i) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations; and (ii) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of the timing of new stock-based awards and acquisitions. The presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The following table presents a reconciliation of GAAP (loss) income from operations to non-GAAP income from operations for each of the following periods: Fiscal Year Ended June 30 2022 2021 (Loss) Income from operations $ (2,138) $ 7,339 Add: Stock-based compensation 11,380 1,700 Amortization of intangible assets 26 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 9,242 $ 9,065 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, allowance for doubtful accounts, the valuation of goodwill and intangible assets, the valuation of deferred tax allowance, and legal contingencies have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Sources of Revenues Our revenue is comprised of two categories, subscription and professional services. Subscription includes SaaS revenue and legacy revenue. SaaS revenue includes revenue from cloud delivery arrangements, term licenses and embedded OEM royalties and associated support. Legacy revenue is associated with license, maintenance and support contracts on perpetual license arrangements that we no longer sell. Professional services include consulting, implementation, training, and managed services. Subscription Revenue For our cloud delivery arrangements, our maintenance and support arrangements and our term license subscriptions that incorporate substantial cloud functionality, the combined performance obligation is recognized ratably over the contract term as the obligation is delivered. For contracts involving distinct software licenses, the license performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time when control is transferred to the customer. 35 Table of Contents We typically invoice our customers in advance upon execution of the contract or subsequent renewals. Invoiced amounts are recorded in accounts receivable, deferred revenue or revenue, depending on when control is transferred to our customers based on each arrangement. We have a royalty revenue agreement with a customer related to our embedded intellectual property. Under the terms of the agreement, the customer is to provide a combined fixed fee, per agent, for each software license sold containing the embedded software to us. These embedded OEM royalties are included as subscription revenue. Under revenue guidance, since these arrangements are for sales-based licenses of intellectual property, we recognize revenue only as the subsequent sale occurs. However, since such sales are reported by the customer with a quarter in arrears, such revenue is recognized at the time it is reported and paid by the customer given that any estimated variable consideration would have to be fully constrained due to the unpredictability of such estimate and the unavoidable risk that it may lead to significant revenue reversals. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue includes system implementation, consulting, training, and managed services. The transaction price is allocated to various performance obligations based on their stand-alone selling prices. Revenue allocated to each performance obligation is recognized as work is performed. Our consulting and implementation service contracts are bid either on a time-and-materials basis or on a fixed-fee basis. Fixed fees are generally paid on milestone billing at pre-determined points in the contract. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. Training revenue that meets the criteria to be accounted for separately is recognized when training is provided. Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations represent contracted revenues that have not yet been recognized, and include billed deferred revenues, consisting of amounts invoiced to customers whether collected or uncollected which have not been recognized as revenues, as well as unbilled amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenues in future periods. The transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations are influenced by a variety of factors, including seasonality, timing of renewals, average contract terms and foreign currency rates. As of June 30, 2022, our remaining performance obligations were $100.5 million of which we expect to recognize $63.2 million and $37.3 million as revenue within one year and beyond one year, respectively. We expect our remaining performance obligations to change quarterly for several reasons including the timing of new contracts and renewals, duration and size of our subscription and support arrangements, variable billing cycles and foreign exchange rate fluctuation. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period. Depending on timing, the initial invoice and subsequent renewal invoices may occur in different quarters. This may result in an increase or decrease to our accounts receivable and deferred revenue. Costs Capitalized to Obtain Revenue Contracts We capitalize incremental costs to obtain non-cancelable subscription and maintenance and support revenue contracts with amortization periods that may extend longer than the non-cancelable subscription and maintenance and support revenue contract terms. We capitalize incremental costs of obtaining a non-cancelable subscription and maintenance and support revenue contract with amortization periods of one year or more. The capitalized amounts consist primarily of sales commissions paid to our direct sales force. Capitalized amounts also include (i) amounts paid to employees other than the direct sales force who earn incentive payouts under annual compensation plans that are tied to the value of contracts acquired and (ii) the associated payroll taxes and fringe benefit costs associated with the payments to our employees. Costs capitalized related to new revenue contracts are generally deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we estimate to be five years. We determine the period of benefit by taking into consideration the 36 Table of Contents period from initial contract through renewal, which constitutes the length of our customer relationship or customer life. Amortization of costs capitalized related to new revenue contracts is included as a component of sales and marketing expense in our operating results. Stock-Based Compensation We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718, Compensation Stock Compensation . Under the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value of the stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding Black-Scholes valuation assumptions such as stock price volatility and expected option lives. We determine the appropriate measure of expected volatility by reviewing historic volatility in the share price of our common stock, as adjusted for certain events that management deems to be non-recurring and non-indicative of future events. We base our estimate of expected life on the historical exercise behavior, cancellations of all past option grants made by us during the time period in which our common stock has been publicly traded, the contractual term, the vesting period and the expected remaining term of the option. Based on our historical experience of option pre-vesting cancellations, we have assumed an annualized forfeiture rate for our options. We record additional expense if the actual forfeiture rate is lower than we estimated and record a recovery of prior expense if the actual forfeiture rate is higher than what we estimated. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We review goodwill annually for impairment or sooner whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. In addition, we evaluate purchased intangible assets to determine that all such assets have determinable lives. We operate under a single reporting unit and accordingly, all of our goodwill is associated with the entire company. We had no impairment for fiscal years ended June 30, 2022 and 2021. Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We extend unsecured credit to customers on a regular basis. Our accounts receivable is derived from revenue earned from customers and are not interest bearing. We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts to reserve for potential uncollectible trade receivables. We review our trade receivables by aging category to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. We exercise judgment when determining the adequacy of these reserves as we evaluate historical bad debt trends, general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, and changes in customer financial conditions. If we make different judgments or utilize different estimates, then material differences may result in additional reserves for trade receivables, which would be reflected by charges in general and administrative expenses for any period presented. We write-off a receivable after all collection efforts have been exhausted and the amount is deemed uncollectible. As described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in