Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with our audited financial statements and the related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be identified by the use of the words such as aims, anticipates, believes, continue, could, would, estimates, expects, intends, may, might, plans, potential, should, or will and similar expressions or the negative of those terms. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the effect of changes in macroeconomic factors beyond our control; our hybrid revenue model and its potential impact on our total revenue; our ability to predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates;our lengthy sales cycles and the difficulty in predicting timing of sales or delays; competition in the markets in which we do business and our failure to compete successfully therein; our expectations regarding the composition of our customers and the result of a loss of a significant customer; the adequacy of our capital resources and need for additional financing and the effect of failing to obtain adequate funding; the development and expansion of our strategic and third party distribution partnerships and relationships with systems integrators; our ability to effectively implement and improve our current products; our ability to innovate and respond to rapid technological change and competitive challenges; legal liability or the effect of negative publicity for the services provided to consumers via our technology platforms; legal and regulatory uncertainties and other risks related to protection of our intellectual property assets; our ability to anticipate our competitors; the operational integrity and maintenance of our systems; the effect of unauthorized access to a customers data or our data or our IT systems; the uncertainty of demand for our products; the anticipated customer benefits from our products; the actual mix in new business between cloud and license transactions when compared with managements projections; the anticipated revenue to us from the Cisco Partnership; the ability to increase revenue as a result of the increased investment in sales and marketing; our ability to hire additional personnel and retain key personnel; our ability to expand and improve our sales performance and marketing activities; our ability to manage our expenditures and estimate future expenses, revenue, and operational requirements; our ability to manage our business plans, strategies and outlooks and any business-related forecasts or projections; the effect of changes to management judgments and estimates; the impact of any modification to our pricing practices in the future; risks from our substantial international operations; our inability to successfully detect weaknesses or errors in our internal controls; our ability to manage future growth; the trading price of our common stock; geographical and currency fluctuations; and our expectations with respect to revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and other financial metrics. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Risk Factors Item 1A in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 which is incorporated herein by reference. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in statements relating to our future plans, product releases, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other assumptions underlying or relating to any of these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below, under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, for factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. All references to eGain, the Company, our, we or us mean eGain Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is clear from the context that such terms mean only this parent company and excludes subsidiaries. eGain and the eGain are trademarks of eGain Corporation. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this report. 20 Table of Contents Overview eGain is a leading provider of cloud-based customer engagement software solutions. For over a decade, we have helped businesses that sell to consumers, or B2C enterprises, improve customer experience, grow sales, and reduce cost across the web, social, phone and store channels using our best-in-class knowledge management, digital engagement and contact center analytics capabilities. Hundreds of global enterprises rely on us to transform fragmented sales engagement and customer service operations into unified customer engagement hubs. We have operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, South Africa and India. Unbilled Deferred Revenue Unbilled deferred revenue represents business that is contracted but not yet invoiced or collected and offbalance-sheet and, accordingly, is not recorded in deferred revenue. As such, the deferred revenue balance on our condensed consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. As of September 30, 2016, unbilled deferred revenue decreased to $26.8 million, from approximately $31.1 million as of June 30, 2016. Key Financial Measures We monitor the key financial performance measures set forth below as well as cash and cash equivalents and available debt capacity, which are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, to help us evaluate trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational effectiveness and efficiencies. These key financial performance measures include certain non-GAAP metrics, including Adjusted EBITDA as defined below. The presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net loss, adjusted for the impact of purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue related to acquisitions, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, interest expense, net, income tax provision (benefit), amortization of acquired intangibles, and severance and related charges. Management believes that it is useful to exclude certain non-cash charges and non-core operational charges from Adjusted EBITDA because (1) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and (2) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of the timing of new stock-based awards and acquisitions. 21 Table of Contents The following table presents our key financial measures, including a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net loss for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Revenue $ 14,745 $ 16,476 Add: Purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue related to acquisitions 16 20 Non-GAAP Revenue 14,761 16,496 Gross Profit 9,681 10,004 Adjusted EBITDA Net loss $ (2,411) $ (3,237) Add: Purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue related to acquisitions 16 20 Depreciation and amortization 354 549 Stock-based compensation expense 236 513 Interest expense, net 422 333 Income tax provision 832 334 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 579 695 Severance and related charges 47 24 Adjusted EBITDA $ 75 $ (769) Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discuss our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, our management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, deferred tax valuation allowance and accrued liabilities, long-lived assets, stock-based compensation goodwill and intangible assets and contingencies. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to these estimates for the periods presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For a detailed explanation of the judgments made in these areas, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2016, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on September 13, 2016. We have reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on September 13, 2016 and determined that there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies in the three months ended September 30, 2016. Business Combinations Business combinations are accounted for at fair value under the purchase method of accounting. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in general and administrative expenses and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date affect income tax expense. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets 22 Table of Contents acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on managements estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the condensed consolidated financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets. Revenue Recognition We enter into arrangements to deliver multiple products or services (multiple-elements). We apply software revenue recognition rules and multiple-elements arrangement revenue guidance. Significant management judgments and estimates are made and used to determine the revenue recognized in any accounting period. Material differences may result in changes to the amount and timing of our revenue for any period if different conditions were to prevail. We present revenue, net of taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities. We derive revenue from three sources: (i) Subscription and support fees primarily consist of cloud revenue from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services, term license revenue, and maintenance and support revenue; (ii) License fees primarily consist of perpetual software license revenue; (iii) Professional services primarily consist of consulting, implementation services and training. Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria are met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists: Evidence of an arrangement consists of a written contract signed by both the customer and management prior to the end of the period. We use signed software license, services agreements and order forms as evidence of an arrangement for sales of software, cloud, maintenance and support. We use signed statement of work as evidence of arrangement for professional services. Delivery or performance has occurre d: Software is delivered to customers electronically or on a CD-ROM, and license files are delivered electronically. Delivery is considered to have occurred when we provide the customer access to the software along with login credentials. Fees are fixed or determinable: We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. Arrangements where a significant portion of the fee is due beyond 90 days from delivery are generally not considered to be fixed or determinable. Collectibility is probable: We assess collectibility based on a number of factors, including the customers past payment history and its current creditworthiness. Payment terms generally range from 30 to 90 days from invoice date. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the revenue and recognize it at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash payment. We apply the provisions of ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition , to all transactions involving the licensing of software products. In the event of a multiple element arrangement for a license transaction, we evaluate the transaction as if each element represents a separate unit of accounting taking into account all factors following the accounting standards. We apply ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, for cloud transactions to determine the accounting treatment for multiple elements. We also apply ASC 605-35 for fixed fee arrangements in which we use the percentage of completion method to recognize revenue when reliable estimates are available for the costs and efforts necessary to complete the implementation services. When such estimates are not available, the completed contract method is utilized. Under the completed contract method, revenue is recognized only when a contract is completed or substantially complete. 23 Table of Contents When licenses are sold together with system implementation and consulting services, license fees are recognized upon shipment, provided that (i) payment of the license fees is not dependent upon the performance of the consulting and implementation services, (ii) the services are available from other vendors, (iii) the services qualify for separate accounting as we have sufficient experience in providing such services, have the ability to estimate cost of providing such services, and we have vendor-specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value, and (iv) the services are not essential to the functionality of the software. We evaluate whether each of the elements in these arrangements represents a separate unit of accounting, as defined by ASC 605, using all applicable facts and circumstances, including whether (i) we sell or could readily sell the element unaccompanied by the other elements, (ii) the element has stand-alone value to the customer, and (iii) there is a general right of return. We use VSOE, of fair value for each of those units, when available. For revenue recognition with multiple-deliverable elements, in certain limited circumstances when VSOE of fair value does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy, which includes VSOE, third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE, and best estimate of selling price, or BESP. We determine the relative selling price for a deliverable based on VSOE, if available, or BESP, if VSOE is not available. We have determined that TPE is not a practical alternative due to differences in our service offerings compared to other parties and the availability of relevant third-party pricing information. We determine BESP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, customer demographic, the geographic area where services are sold, price lists, its go-to-market strategy, historical standalone sales and contract prices. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in relative selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. Subscription and Support Revenue Cloud Revenue Cloud services revenue consists of fees from customers subscribing to our cloud-based service offerings. We recognize cloud services revenue ratably over the period of the applicable agreement as services are provided. Cloud agreements typically have an initial term of 12 to 36 months and automatically renew unless either party cancels the agreement. The majority of the cloud services customers purchase a combination of our cloud service and professional services. In some cases, the customer may also acquire a license for our software. We consider the applicability of ASC 985-605, on a contract-by-contract basis. In cloud services agreements, where the customer does not have the contractual right to take possession of the software, the revenue is recognized on a monthly basis over the term of the contract. Invoiced amounts are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. We consider a software element to exist when we determine that the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the cloud period without significant penalty and can feasibly run the software on its own hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third party to host the software. Additionally, we have established VSOE for the cloud and maintenance and support elements of perpetual license sales, based on the prices charged when sold separately and substantive renewal terms. Accordingly, when a software element exists in a cloud services arrangement, license revenue for the perpetual software license element is determined using the residual method and is recognized upon delivery. Revenue for the cloud and maintenance and support elements is recognized ratably over the contractual time period. Professional services are recognized as described below under Professional Services Revenue. If VSOE of fair value cannot be established for the undelivered elements of an agreement, the entire amount of revenue from the arrangement is recognized ratably over the period that these elements are delivered. Term License Revenue Term license revenue includes arrangements where our customers receive license rights to use our software along with bundled maintenance and support services for the term of the contract. The majority of our contracts provide 24 Table of Contents customers with the right to use one or more products up to a specific license volume. Certain of our license agreements specify that customers can exceed pre-determined base volume levels, in which case additional fees are specified in the license agreement. Term license revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the license contract. Maintenance and Support Revenue Maintenance and support revenue consists of customers purchasing maintenance and support for our on-premise software. We use VSOE of fair value for maintenance and support to account for the arrangement using the residual method, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element. Maintenance and support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract, which is typically one year. Maintenance and support is renewable by the customer on an annual basis. Maintenance and support rates, including subsequent renewal rates, are typically established based upon a specified percentage of net license fees as set forth in the arrangement. License Revenue License revenue includes perpetual licenses sold to customers to use our software in conjunction with related maintenance and support services. If an acceptance period is required, revenue is recognized upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software products and/or services, we use the residual method under which revenue is allocated to the undelivered elements based on VSOE of the fair value of such undelivered elements. The residual amount of revenue is allocated to the delivered elements and recognized as revenue, assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Such undelivered elements in these arrangements typically consist of software maintenance and support, implementation and consulting services and in some cases, cloud services. We periodically sell to resellers. License sales to resellers as a percentage of total revenue were approximately 11% and 6% for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Revenue from sales to resellers is generally recognized upon delivery to the reseller but depends on the facts and circumstances of the transaction, such as our understanding of the resellers plans to sell the software, if there are any return provisions, price protection or other allowances, the resellers financial status and our experience with the particular reseller. Historically sales to resellers have not included any return provisions, price protections or other allowances. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue includes system implementation, consulting and training. For license transactions, the majority of our consulting and implementation services qualify for separate accounting. We use VSOE of fair value for the services to account for the arrangement using the residual method, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element. Our consulting and implementation service contracts are bid either on a fixed-fee basis or on a time-and-materials basis. Substantially all of our contracts are on a time-and-materials basis. For time-and-materials contracts, where the services are not essential to the functionality, we recognize revenue as services are performed. If the services are essential to functionality, then both the license revenue and the service revenue are recognized under the percentage of completion method. For a fixed-fee contract, we recognize revenue based upon the costs and efforts to complete the services in accordance with the percentage of completion method, provided we are able to estimate such cost and efforts. Under ASC 605-25, in order to account for deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement as separate units of accounting, the deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. For cloud services, in determining whether professional services have standalone value, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription service start date and the contractual dependence of the subscription service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. 25 Table of Contents We determined at or around July 1, 2013 that we had established standalone value for these implementation services under cloud contracts. This was primarily due to the change in our business focus, the growing number of partners we trained and certified to perform these deployment services and the consequential sale of subscription services without bundled implementation service. Revenues earned from professional services related to consulting and implementation of a majority of our core subscription services are being accounted for separately from revenues earned from subscription services beginning July 1, 2013 when the standalone value was established for those professional services. For those contracts that have standalone value, we recognized the services revenue when rendered for time and material contracts, when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer for fixed price contracts or by percentage of completion basis if there is no acceptance criteria. For cloud, consulting and implementation services that do not qualify for separate accounting, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the estimated life of the customer cloud relationship, once cloud has gone live or system ready. We currently estimate the life of the customer cloud relationship to be approximately 28 months, based on the average life of all cloud customer relationships. Training revenue that meets the criteria to be accounted for separately is recognized when training is provided. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue primarily consists of payments received in advance of revenue recognition from cloud, term license, and maintenance and support services and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. We generally invoice customers in annual or quarterly installments. The deferred revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable cloud or maintenance and support agreements. Deferred revenue is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing and new business linearity within the quarter. Deferred revenue that will be recognized during the succeeding twelve month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as noncurrent. As of September 30, 2016, deferred revenue increased to $18.0 million, compared to $15.7 million as of June 30, 2016. Deferred Commissions Deferred commissions are the direct and incremental costs directly associated with cloud contracts with customers and consist of sales commissions to the Companys direct sales force. The commissions are deferred and amortized over the terms of the related customer contracts, which are typically one or two years. The commission payments are paid based on contract terms in the month following the quarter in which the commissions are earned. The deferred commission amounts are recognized as Sales and marketing expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations over the terms of the related customer contracts, in proportion to the recognition of the associated revenue. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain items reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percent of total revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 Revenue: Subscription and support 74 % 66 % License 11 % 15 % Professional services 15 % 19 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of subscription and support 20 % 19 % Cost of license % % Cost of professional services 14 % 20 % Total cost of revenue 34 % 39 % Gross profit 66 % 61 % Operating expenses: Research and development 25 % 24 % Sales and marketing 36 % 40 % General and administrative 14 % 14 % Total operating expenses 75 % 78 % Loss from operations (9) % (17) % Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change % Subscription and support $ 10,863 $ 10,842 $ 21 0 % License 1,650 2,426 (776) (32) % Professional services 2,232 3,208 (976) (30) % Total revenue $ 14,745 $ 16,476 $ (1,731) (11) % Total revenue decreased 11% to $14.7 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from the comparable year-ago quarter. The decrease is attributable to the shift from perpetual license business towards a cloud delivery model and lower professional services revenue due to a reduction in time and effort required for an average project. Subscription and support revenue, which is comprised of cloud, term license and software maintenance and support revenue increased to $10.9 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $10.8 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. License revenue decreased 32% to $1.7 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $2.4 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The decrease in license revenue was primarily due to the shift from perpetual license business towards a cloud delivery model. Professional services revenue decreased 30% to $2.2 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $3.2 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The decrease in professional services revenue was primarily due to a reduction in time and effort required for an average project as a result of improvements in our product deployment process. 27 Table of Contents Revenue by Geographic Area Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change % Domestic $ 7,262 $ 9,600 $ (2,338) (24) % International 7,483 6,876 607 9 % Total revenue $ 14,745 $ 16,476 $ (1,731) (11) % Revenue from domestic sales decreased primarily due to lower license and support revenue associated with the shift towards a cloud delivery model. Revenue from international sales increased 9% to $7.5 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $6.9 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The impact of the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro and British Pound resulted in a net decrease of $1.2 million in total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2016. To measure the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuation, we recalculate current period results using the comparable prior period exchange rate. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change % Subscription and support $ 2,927 $ 3,079 $ (152) (5) % License 7 7 % Professional services 2,130 3,386 (1,256) (37) % Total cost of revenue $ 5,064 $ 6,472 $ (1,408) (22) % Percentage of total revenue 34 % 39 % Gross margin 66 % 61 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of compensation and benefits for our personnel who provide customer service to our customers for consulting, software maintenance and support services and personnel who support our server and network infrastructure, fees for outside consultants and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Total cost of revenue decreased 22% to $5.1 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $6.5 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to decreases of (i) $891,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses resulting from improvements to our product that has simplified the deployment process thereby reducing the effort previously required, and the business decision to shift these services over to our partners; (ii) $313,000 in the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee; and (iii) $220,000 in outside consulting services; partially offset by an increase of $18,000 in cloud related expense such as hosted network and lease costs paid to remote co-location centers. Gross margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2016 was 66% compared to 61% in the comparable year-ago quarter. Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. Dollars and changes in severance and related charges, we anticipate cost of subscription and support to remain relatively constant in dollar terms in fiscal year 2017 and the gross margin to remain relatively constant as we continue to invest in our cloud infrastructure. We anticipate cost of license and the cost of professional services to remain relatively constant based upon our current business plan. 28 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change % Research and development $ 3,675 $ 3,900 $ (225) (6) % Percentage of total revenue 25 % 24 % Research and development expense primarily consists of compensation and benefits for our engineering, product management and development, and quality assurance personnel, fees for outside consultants and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Total costs for research and development decreased 6% to $3.7 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $3.9 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to decreases of (i) $29,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses; (ii) $74,000 in outside consulting services; and (iii) $133,000 from the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee; partially offset by an increase of $11,000 in amortization of intangible assets. Total research and development revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 25% and 24% for the quarters ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. Dollar and changes in severance and related charges, we anticipate research and development expense to be relatively constant in dollar terms in future quarters based upon our current business plan. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change % Sales and marketing $ 5,240 $ 6,668 $ (1,428) (21) % Percentage of total revenue 36 % 40 % Sales and marketing expense primarily consist of compensation and benefits for our sales, marketing and business development personnel, lead generation activities, advertising, trade show and other promotional costs and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Sales and marketing expense decreased 21% to $5.2 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $6.7 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to decreases of (i) $881,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses; (ii) $293,000 from the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee; (iii) $163,000 in marketing program expenses; and (iv) $105,000 in amortization of intangible assets. Total sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenue was 36% and 40% for the quarters ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. Dollar and changes in severance and related charges, we anticipate sales and marketing expense to increase moderately in dollar terms in future quarters based upon our current business plan. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change % General and administrative $ 2,031 $ 2,246 $ (215) (10) % Percentage of total revenue 14 % 14 % General and administrative expense primarily consist of compensation and benefits for our finance, human resources, administrative and legal personnel, fees for outside professional services, provision for doubtful accounts and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Total general and administrative expense decreased 10% to $2.0 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 from $2.2 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to decreases of (i) $426,000 in personnel and personnel-related expense; (ii) $86,000 from the foreign 29 Table of Contents exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee; partially offset by increases of (i) $295,000 in bad debt expense; and (ii) $71,000 from outside consulting services. Total general and administrative expense as a percentage of total revenue was 14% and 14% for the quarters ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. Dollar and changes in severance and related charges, we anticipate general and administrative expense to decrease in dollar terms in future quarters based upon our current business plan. Loss from Operations Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2016 2015 Change % Loss from operations $ (1,265) $ (2,810) $ 1,545 55 % Operating margin (9) % (17) % Loss from operations in the quarter ended September 30, 2016 was $1.3 million which included $579,000 of amortization of purchased intangible assets and $236,000 of stock-based compensation expenses, compared to loss from operations of $2.8 million which included $695,000 of amortization of purchased intangible assets and $513,000 of stock-based compensation expenses in the comparable year-ago quarter. We recorded a 9% negative operating margin in the quarter ended September 30, 2016, compared to a 17% negative operating margin in the comparable year-ago quarter. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense consists of interest on bank borrowings and capital leases. Interest expense, net was $422,000 and $333,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The increase in interest expense primarily relates to interest paid on higher average bank borrowings and capital leasing agreements. Other Income, Net Other income, net was $108,000 and $240,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Other income, net primarily consists of exchange rate gain/loss on foreign currency transactions. Income Tax Provision We recorded an income tax provision of $832,000 and $334,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The income tax provision primarily relates to foreign and state income tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of September 30, 2016 our cash and cash equivalents was $9.5 million compared to cash and cash equivalents of $11.8 million as of June 30, 2016. As of September 30, 2016, our deferred revenue was $18.0 million compared to $15.8 million on June 30, 2016. Unbilled deferred revenue, representing business that is contracted but not yet invoiced or collected and off balance sheet, was $26.8 million as of September 30, 2016, down from $31.1 million as of June 30, 2016. As of September 30, 2016, we reduced bank borrowings by $4.6 million to $16.9 million from $21.6 million as of June 30, 2016. 30 Table of Contents If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to achieve or sustain positive cash flows, maintain current operations, fund any potential expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our expectations as to our future cash flows and our future cash balances are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions regarding anticipated increases in our revenue, the mix of new cloud and license business, our ability to retain existing customers and customer purchasing and payment patterns, many of which are beyond our control. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to cash used in operating activities of $5.6 million in the comparable year-ago period. The increase in cash provided was primarily due to a reduced net loss of $2.4 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to a net loss of $3.2 million in the comparable year-ago period before adjusting for depreciation, amortization of deferred commissions, deferred financing costs, and intangible assets, stock-based compensation, and changes in working capital accounts. The decrease in accounts receivable due to improved cash collections and increase in deferred revenue led to the improvement in cash provided by operations. Net cash used in investing activities was $42,000 during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $578,000 million during the comparable year-ago period. The net cash used in investing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2016 was related to the purchase of equipment. The net cash provided by investing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2015 was primarily attributed to a decrease of $647,000 in restricted cash. Net cash used in financing activities was $4.7 million during the three months ended September 30, 2016 compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $3.5 million during the comparable year-ago period. Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2016 primarily related to $5.3 million in repayment of borrowings from our bank facilities, and $88,000 payments on capital lease obligations, partially offset by new bank borrowings of $618,000. Commitments We entered into a sublease agreement that commenced on August 8, 2015 and that expired on August 31, 2016. Rental income from the sublease was approximately $426,000 for the year ended June 30, 2016. The sublease tenant did not renew and in accordance with ASC 420 Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations, we recorded a $305,000 lease exit liability and related rent expense on June 30, 2016 for an expected loss on the sublease for approximately 22,000 square feet of space as we will not receive sublease payments until another sublease tenant is found. The sublease is under our master lease agreement for our Sunnyvale facility. We classified all of the $305,000 lease exit liability in current liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of June 30, 2016. We expect the future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases to be offset with sub-lease income, once a tenant is secured. We are actively marketing this office space and have received offers to sublease the space. We will reevaluate the sublease exit liability in the second quarter of fiscal 2017. There was no other significant change to our contractual obligations since June 30, 2016. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2016 we had no significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K, other than operating leases and co-location agreement that were included in our commitment schedule as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016. There was no significant change since June 30, 2016. 31 Table of Contents