ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion of eGains financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and related notes in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Overview eGain automates customer experience with an AI knowledge hub solution. We sell our SaaS solution to enterprises who want to improve customer experience while reducing cost, by using AI to synthesize and deliver trusted, consumable answers from a knowledge hub. We are headquartered in Sunnyvale, California, USA. We also operate in the United Kingdom and India. Key Financial Measures We monitor the key financial performance measures set forth below as well as cash and cash equivalents and available debt capacity, which are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, to help us evaluate trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational effectiveness and efficiencies. Revenue We believe total revenue is a useful measure to value our business. SaaS revenue is defined as revenue from cloud delivery arrangements, term licenses, embedded OEM royalties and associated support. Professional services revenue includes system implementation, consulting, training, and managed services. The following table presents total revenue for each of the following periods: Fiscal Year Ended June 30 2025 2024 Change Revenue (in thousands, except percentages) SaaS revenue $ 81,921 $ 85,082 $ (3,161) (4) % Professional services 6,510 7,721 (1,211) (16) % Total revenue $ 88,431 $ 92,803 $ (4,372) Non-GAAP Operating Income Non-GAAP operating income is defined as income from operations, adjusted for the impact of stock-based compensation expense. 35 Table of Contents Management believes that it is useful to exclude certain non-cash charges and non-core operational charges from non-GAAP operating income because (i) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations; and (ii) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of the timing of new stock-based awards. The presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation, or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). The following table presents a reconciliation of GAAP income from operations to non-GAAP income from operations for each of the following periods: Fiscal Year Ended June 30 2025 2024 Income from operations $ 4,433 $ 5,971 Add: Stock-based compensation 2,449 4,529 Non-GAAP income from operations $ 6,882 $ 10,500 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, provision for credit losses, the valuation of goodwill, the valuation of deferred tax allowance, and legal contingencies have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Sources of Revenues Our revenue is comprised of two categories including SaaS and professional services. SaaS revenue includes cloud delivery arrangements, term licenses, embedded OEM royalties, and associated support. An immaterial amount of SaaS revenue is comprised of our legacy revenue which is associated with license, maintenance, and support contracts on perpetual license arrangements that we no longer sell. Professional services include consulting, implementation, training, and managed services. SaaS Revenue For our cloud delivery arrangements, our maintenance and support arrangements and our term license subscriptions that incorporate substantial cloud functionality, the combined performance obligation is recognized ratably over the contract term as the obligation is delivered. For contracts involving distinct software licenses, the license performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time when control is transferred to the customer. We typically invoice our customers in advance upon execution of the contract or subsequent renewals. Invoiced amounts are recorded in accounts receivable, deferred revenue or revenue, depending on when control is transferred to our customers based on each arrangement. We have a royalty revenue agreement with a customer related to our embedded intellectual property. Under the terms of the agreement, the customer is to provide a combined fixed fee, per agent, for each software license sold containing the 36 Table of Contents embedded software to us. These embedded OEM royalties are included as SaaS revenue. Under revenue guidance, since these arrangements are for sales-based licenses of intellectual property, we recognize revenue only as the subsequent sale occurs. However, since such sales are reported by the customer with a quarter in arrears, such revenue is recognized at the time it is reported and paid by the customer. Any estimated variable consideration would have to be fully constrained due to the unpredictability of such estimates and the risk of significant revenue reversals. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue includes system implementation, consulting, training, and managed services. The transaction price is allocated to various performance obligations based on their SSP. Revenue allocated to each performance obligation is recognized as work is performed. Managed services include a comprehensive set of processes and activities that range from implementation to monitoring the evolution and support of our solutions in a company. Our consulting and implementation service contracts are bid either on a time-and-material basis or on a fixed-fee basis. Managed services contracts are bid on a time-and-material basis. Fixed fees are generally paid on milestone billing at pre-determined points in the contract. Amounts that have been invoiced are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether transfer of control to customers has occurred. Training revenue that meets the criteria to be accounted for separately is recognized when training is provided. Remaining Performance Obligations Remaining performance obligations represent contracted revenue that have not yet been recognized, and include billed deferred revenue, consisting of amounts invoiced to customers whether collected or uncollected which have not been recognized as revenue, as well as unbilled amounts that will be invoiced and recognized as revenue in future periods. The transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligation is influenced by a variety of factors, including seasonality, timing of renewals, average contract terms and foreign currency exchange rates. As of June 30, 2025, our remaining performance obligations were $91.6 million, of which we expect to recognize $63.0 million and $28.6 million as revenue within one year and beyond one year, respectively. We expect our remaining performance obligations to change quarterly for several reasons including the timing of new contracts and renewals, duration and size of our subscription and support arrangements, variable billing cycles and foreign exchange rate fluctuation. We typically issue renewal invoices in advance of the renewal service period. Depending on timing, the initial invoice and subsequent renewal invoices may occur in different quarters. This may result in an increase or decrease to our accounts receivable and deferred revenue. Costs Capitalized to Obtain Revenue Contracts Under Topic 606, we capitalize incremental costs to obtain non-cancelable subscription and maintenance and support revenue contracts with amortization periods that may extend longer than the non-cancelable subscription and maintenance and support revenue contract terms. We capitalize incremental costs of obtaining a non-cancelable subscription and maintenance and support revenue contract with amortization periods of one year or more. The capitalized amounts consist primarily of sales commissions paid to our direct sales force. Capitalized amounts also include (i) amounts paid to employees other than the direct sales force who earn incentive payouts under annual compensation plans that are tied to the value of contracts acquired and (ii) the associated payroll taxes and fringe benefit costs associated with the payments to our employees. Costs capitalized related to new revenue contracts are generally deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of benefit that we estimate to be five years. We determine the period of benefit by taking into consideration the period from initial contract through renewal, which constitutes the length of our customer relationship or customer life. Amortization of costs capitalized related to new revenue contracts is included as a component of sales and marketing expense in our operating results. 37 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation We account for stock-based compensation in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 718, Compensation Stock Compensation. Under the fair value recognition provisions of ASC 718, stock-based compensation cost is measured at the grant date based on the fair value of the award and is recognized as an expense over the vesting period. Determining the fair value of the stock-based awards at the grant date requires significant judgment and the use of estimates, particularly surrounding Black-Scholes valuation assumptions such as stock price volatility and expected option lives. We determine the appropriate measure of expected volatility by reviewing historic volatility in the share price of our common stock, as adjusted for certain events that management deems to be non-recurring and non-indicative of future events. We base our estimate of expected life on the historical exercise behavior, cancellations of all past option grants made by us during the time period in which our common stock has been publicly traded, the contractual term, the vesting period and the expected remaining term of the option. Based on our historical experience of option pre-vesting cancellations, we have assumed an annualized forfeiture rate for our stock options. We record additional expense if the actual forfeiture rate is lower than we estimated and record a recovery of prior expense if the actual forfeiture rate is higher than what we estimated. Goodwill We review goodwill annually for impairment or sooner whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that it may be impaired. These events or circumstances could include a significant change in the business climate, legal factors, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit. We operate under a single reporting unit and accordingly, all of our goodwill is associated with the entire company. We had no impairment for fiscal years ended June 30, 2025 and 2024. Accounts Receivable and Provision for Credit Losses We extend unsecured credit to customers on a regular basis. Our accounts receivable is derived from revenue earned from customers and are not interest bearing. We also maintain provision for credit losses to reserve for potential uncollectible trade receivables. We review our trade receivables by aging category to identify specific customers with known disputes or collectability issues. We exercise judgment when determining the adequacy of these reserves as we evaluate historical bad debt trends, general economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, and changes in customer financial conditions. If we make different judgments or utilize different estimates, then material differences may result in additional reserves for trade receivables, which would be reflected by charges in general and administrative expenses for any period presented. We write-off receivables after all collection efforts have been exhausted and the amounts are deemed uncollectible. As described in Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in