Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with our audited financial statements and the related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may be identified by the use of the words such as aims, anticipates, believes, continue, could, would, estimates, expects, intends, may, might, plans, potential, should, or will and similar expressions or the negative of those terms. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the effect of changes in macroeconomic factors beyond our control; our hybrid revenue model and its potential impact on our total revenue; our ability to predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates; our lengthy sales cycles and the difficulty in predicting timing of sales or delays; competition in the markets in which we do business and our failure to compete successfully therein; our expectations regarding the composition of our customers and the result of a loss of a significant customer; the adequacy of our capital resources and need for additional financing and the effect of failing to obtain adequate funding; the development and expansion of our strategic and third party distribution partnerships and relationships with systems integrators; our ability to effectively implement and improve our current products; our ability to innovate and respond to rapid technological change and competitive challenges; legal liability or the effect of negative publicity for the services provided to consumers via our technology platforms; legal and regulatory uncertainties and other risks related to protection of our intellectual property assets; our ability to anticipate our competitors; the operational integrity and maintenance of our systems; the effect of unauthorized access to a customers data or our data or our IT systems; the uncertainty of demand for our products; the anticipated customer benefits from our products; the actual mix in new business between cloud and license transactions when compared with managements projections; the ability to increase revenue as a result of the increased investment in sales and marketing; our ability to hire additional personnel and retain key personnel; our ability to expand and improve our sales performance and marketing activities; our ability to manage our expenditures and estimate future expenses, revenue, and operational requirements; our ability to manage our business plans, strategies and outlooks and any business-related forecasts or projections; the effect of changes to management judgments and estimates; the impact of any modification to our pricing practices in the future; risks from our substantial international operations; our inability to successfully detect weaknesses or errors in our internal controls; our ability to manage future growth; the trading price of our common stock; geographical and currency fluctuations; and our expectations with respect to revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and other financial metrics. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Risk Factors Item 1A of Part II of this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017 which is incorporated herein by reference. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in statements relating to our future plans, product releases, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other assumptions underlying or relating to any of these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below, under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, for factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. All references to eGain, the Company, our, we or us mean eGain Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is clear from the context that such terms mean only the parent company and excludes subsidiaries. eGain and the eGain are trademarks of eGain Corporation. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this report. 21 Table of Contents Overview eGain Corporation is a leading provider of cloud-based customer engagement software. We help business-to-consumer (B2C) brands operationalize digital customer engagement strategy. Our suite includes rich applications for digital interaction, knowledge management, and AI-based process guidance. We also provide advanced, integrated analytics for contact centers and digital properties to holistically measure, manage, and optimize resources. Benefits include reduced customer effort, customer satisfaction, connected service processes, converted upsell opportunities, and improved complianceacross mobile, social, web, and phone. Hundreds of global enterprises rely on eGain to transform fragmented customer service systems into unified Customer Engagement Hubs. We have operations in the United States, United Kingdom and India. Unbilled Deferred Revenue Unbilled deferred revenue represents business that is contracted but not yet invoiced or collected and offbalance-sheet and, accordingly, is not recorded in deferred revenue. As such, the deferred revenue balance on our condensed consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. As of September 30, 2017, unbilled deferred revenue decreased to $35.2 million from $37.0 million as of June 30, 2017. Key Financial Measures We monitor the key financial performance measures set forth below as well as cash and cash equivalents and available debt capacity, which are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, to help us evaluate trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational effectiveness and efficiencies. These key financial performance measures include certain non-GAAP metrics, including non-GAAP operating loss as defined below. The presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (GAAP). Non-GAAP operating loss, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as operating loss, adjusted for the impact of stock-based compensation expense and amortization of acquired intangibles. Management believes that it is useful to exclude certain non-cash charges and non-core operational charges from non-GAAP operating loss because (i) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and (ii) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of the timing of new stock-based awards and acquisitions. The following table presents our key financial measures, including a reconciliation of GAAP loss from operations to non-GAAP income (loss) from operations for each of the following periods: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Loss from operations $ (568) $ (2,411) Add: Stock-based compensation 319 236 Amortization of acquired intangibles 504 579 Non-GAAP income (loss) from operations $ 255 $ (1,596) Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discusses our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements 22 Table of Contents requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, goodwill, intangibles, deferred tax valuation allowance, accrued liabilities, long-lived assets and stock-based compensation. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There were no material changes to these estimates for the periods presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For a detailed explanation of the judgments made in these areas, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2017, which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on September 26, 2017. We have reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on September 26, 2017 and determined that there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies in the three months ended September 30, 2017. Business Combinations Business combinations are accounted for at fair value under the purchase method of accounting. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in general and administrative expenses and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date affect income tax expense. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on managements estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the condensed consolidated financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets. Revenue Recognition We enter into arrangements to deliver multiple products or services (multiple-elements). We apply software revenue recognition rules and multiple-elements arrangement revenue guidance. Significant management judgments and estimates are made and used to determine the revenue recognized in any accounting period. Material differences may result in changes to the amount and timing of our revenue for any period if different conditions were to prevail. We present revenue net of taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities. We derive revenue from three sources: i. Recurring fees (previously referred to as subscription and support) primarily consist of cloud revenue from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services, term and ratable license revenue, and maintenance and support revenue; ii. Legacy license fees primarily consist of perpetual software license revenue which we no longer sell to new customers; and iii. Professional services primarily consist of consulting, implementation services and training. 23 Table of Contents Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria are met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists: Evidence of an arrangement consists of a written contract signed by both the customer and management prior to the end of the period. We use signed software licenses, services agreements and order forms as evidence of an arrangement for sales of software, cloud, maintenance and support. We use a signed statement of work as evidence of arrangement for professional services. Delivery or performance has occurred: Software is delivered to customers electronically, and license files are delivered electronically. Delivery is considered to have occurred when we provide the customer access to the software along with a license file and/or login credentials. Fees are fixed or determinable: We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. Arrangements where a significant portion of the fee is due beyond 90 days from delivery are generally not considered to be fixed or determinable. Collectibility is probable: We assess collectibility based on a number of factors, including the customers past payment history and current creditworthiness. Payment terms generally range from 30 to 90 days from invoice date. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the revenue and recognize it at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash payment. Revenue from sales to resellers is generally recognized upon delivery to the reseller dependent on the facts and circumstances of the transaction, such as our understanding of the resellers plans to sell the software, existence of return provisions, price protection or other allowances, the resellers financial status and our past experience with the reseller. Historically sales to resellers have not included any return provisions, price protection or other allowances. We apply the provisions of Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition , to all transactions involving the licensing of software products. In the event of a multiple element arrangement for a license transaction, we evaluate the transaction as if each element represents a separate unit of accounting taking into account all factors following the accounting standards. We apply ASC 605, Revenue Recognition , for cloud transactions to determine the accounting treatment for multiple elements. We also apply ASC 605-35 for fixed fee arrangements in which we use the percentage of completion method to recognize revenue when reliable estimates are available for the costs and efforts necessary to complete the implementation services. When such estimates are not available, the completed contract method is utilized. Under the completed contract method, revenue is recognized only when a contract is completed or substantially complete. When legacy perpetual licenses were sold together with system implementation and consulting services, legacy license fees were recognized upon shipment, provided that (i) payment of the license fees were not dependent upon the performance of the consulting and implementation services, (ii) the services were available from other vendors, (iii) the services qualified for separate accounting as we have sufficient experience in providing such services, had the ability to estimate cost of providing such services, and we had vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value, and (iv) the services were not essential to the functionality of the software. We enter into arrangements with multiple-deliverables that generally include subscription, maintenance and support, and professional services. We evaluate whether each of the elements in these arrangements represents a separate unit of accounting, as defined by ASC 605, using all applicable facts and circumstances, including whether (i) we sell or could readily sell the element unaccompanied by the other elements, (ii) the element has stand-alone value to the customer, and (iii) there is a general right of return. For revenue recognition with multiple-deliverable elements, we apply the selling price hierarchy, which includes VSOE, third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE, and best estimate of selling price, or BESP. We determine the relative selling price for a deliverable based on VSOE, if available, or BESP, if VSOE is not available. We determined that TPE is not a practical alternative due to differences in its service offerings compared to other parties and the availability of relevant third-party pricing information. 24 Table of Contents We determine BESP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, the customer demographic, the geographic area where services are sold, price lists, its go-to-market strategy, historical standalone sales and contract prices. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify its pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in relative selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. Recurring Revenue Cloud Revenue Cloud revenue consists of subscription fees along with bundled maintenance and support revenue from customers accessing our cloud-based service offerings. We recognize cloud revenue ratably over the period of the applicable agreement as services are provided. Cloud agreements typically have an initial term of 12 to 36 months and automatically renew unless either party cancels the agreement. The majority of the cloud services customers purchase a combination of our cloud service and professional services. We consider the applicability of ASC 985-605, on a contract-by-contract basis. In cloud-based agreements, where the customer does not have the contractual right to take possession of the software, the revenue is recognized on a monthly basis over the term of the contract. Invoiced amounts are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. We consider a software element to exist when we determine that the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the cloud period without significant penalty and can feasibly run the software on its own hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third party to host the software. Additionally, we have established VSOE for the cloud and maintenance and support elements of perpetual license sales, based on the prices charged when sold separately and substantive renewal terms. Accordingly, when a software element exists in a cloud services arrangement, license revenue for the perpetual software license element is determined using the residual method and is recognized upon delivery. Revenue for the cloud and maintenance and support elements is recognized ratably over the contractual time period. Professional services are recognized as described below under Professional Services Revenue. If VSOE of fair value cannot be established for the undelivered elements of an agreement, the entire amount of revenue from the arrangement is recognized ratably over the period that these elements are delivered. Term and Ratable License Revenue Term and ratable license revenue includes arrangements where our customers receive license rights to use our software along with bundled maintenance and support services for the term of the contract or the Company has not established VSOE for the bundled multi-year maintenance and support services. The majority of our contracts provide customers with the right to use one or more products up to a specific license capacity. Certain terms of our license agreements stipulate that customers can exceed pre-determined base capacity levels, in which case additional fees are specified in the license agreement. Term license revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the license contract, and ratable license revenue is recognized over the term of the associated bundled maintenance and support contract. Our release of version 15.5 of the perpetual license is a cloud and perpetual license hybrid software which represents a service contract under ASC 605-25. The cloud components are essential to the functionality of the version 15.5 release, and we have a contractual obligation to deliver these cloud components. Per ASC 605-25, a delivered item is considered a separate unit of accounting only if (i) the delivered item has standalone value; and (ii) if the service contract has a general right of return, then delivery and performance of the undelivered item is probable and substantially within the vendors control. We cannot separate the cloud components because there is no standalone value of the cloud components. The perpetual license revenue is recognized over the economic life of the software which was determined to be three years. 25 Table of Contents Maintenance and Support Revenue Maintenance and support revenue consists of customers purchasing maintenance and support for our on-premise software. We use VSOE of fair value for maintenance and support to account for the arrangement using the residual method, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element. Maintenance and support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract, which is typically one year. Maintenance and support is renewable by the customer on an annual basis. Maintenance and support rates, including subsequent renewal rates, are typically established based upon a specified percentage of net license fees as set forth in the arrangement. Legacy License Revenue Legacy license revenue consists of perpetual license rights sold to customers to use our software in conjunction with related maintenance and support services. If an acceptance period is required, revenue is recognized upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software products and/or services, we use the residual method for perpetual licenses released as version 15 or prior under which revenue is allocated to the undelivered elements based on VSOE of the fair value of such undelivered elements. The residual amount of revenue is allocated to the delivered elements and recognized as revenue, assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Such undelivered elements in these arrangements typically consist of software maintenance and support, implementation and consulting services and, in some cases, cloud services. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue includes system implementation, consulting and training. For license transactions, the majority of our consulting and implementation services qualify for separate accounting. We use VSOE of fair value for the services to account for the arrangement using the residual method, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element. Our consulting and implementation service contracts are bid either on a fixed-fee basis or on a time-and-materials basis. Substantially all of our contracts are on a time-and-materials basis. For time-and-materials contracts, where the services are not essential to the functionality, we recognize revenue as services are performed. If the services are essential to functionality, then both the product license revenue and the service revenue are recognized under the percentage of completion method. For a fixed-fee contract, we recognize revenue based upon the costs and efforts to complete the services in accordance with the percentage of completion method, provided we are able to estimate such cost and efforts. Under ASC 605-25, in order to account for deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement as separate units of accounting, the deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. For cloud services, in determining whether professional services have standalone value, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription service start date and the contractual dependence of the subscription service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. We have standalone value for consulting and implementation services. For those contracts that have standalone value, we recognized the services revenue when rendered for time and material contracts, when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer for fixed price contracts or by percentage of completion basis if there is no acceptance criteria. Training revenue that meets the criteria to be accounted for separately is recognized when training is provided. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue primarily consists of payments received in advance of revenue recognition from cloud, term and ratable license, and maintenance and support services and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. We generally invoice customers in annual or quarterly installments. The deferred revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable cloud or maintenance and support agreements. Deferred revenue is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing and new business linearity within the quarter. 26 Table of Contents Deferred revenue that will be recognized during the succeeding twelve-month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as noncurrent. Deferred Commissions Deferred commissions are costs associated with cloud and term license contracts with customers and consist of sales commissions to our sales force. Commission expenses are deferred and amortized over the terms of the related customer contracts, which are typically 12 to 36 months. The deferred commission amounts are recognized as sales and marketing expense in the consolidated statements of operations over the terms of the related customer contracts in proportion to the recognition of the associated revenue. Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain items reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percent of total revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2017 2016 Revenue: Recurring 80 % 74 % Legacy license 1 % 11 % Professional services 19 % 15 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue: Cost of recurring 21 % 20 % Cost of legacy license % % Cost of professional services 16 % 14 % Total cost of revenue 37 % 34 % Gross profit 63 % 66 % Operating expenses: Research and development 24 % 25 % Sales and marketing 29 % 36 % General and administrative 12 % 14 % Total operating expenses 65 % 75 % Loss from operations (2) % (9) % Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Recurring $ 11,642 $ 10,863 $ 779 7 % Legacy license 188 1,650 (1,462) (89) % Professional services 2,745 2,232 513 23 % Total revenue $ 14,575 $ 14,745 $ (170) (1) % Total revenue, which consists of recurring, legacy license and professional services revenue, decreased 1% to $14.6 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $14.7 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The decrease in total revenue was related to the shift from a perpetual license model toward a cloud delivery model resulting in decreased legacy 27 Table of Contents license revenue partially offset by an increase in recurring revenue. We also generated increased professional services revenue which was related to the increased implementation of customer projects. The impact of the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro and British Pound resulted in an insignificant net increase in total revenue in the three months ended September 30, 2017. To exclude the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuation, we recalculate current period results using the comparable prior period exchange rate. Recurring revenue, which includes cloud, term and ratable licenses, software maintenance and support revenue, increased 7% to $11.6 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $10.9 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. Excluding an insignificant net impact of foreign exchange fluctuation, recurring revenue increased by 7% or $778,000. The increase in recurring revenue relates to the strategic decision to move to a ratable or cloud delivery business model from the hybrid model that included legacy perpetual licenses. Excluding the impact from any future foreign currency fluctuation, we expect recurring revenue to increase during fiscal year 2018 due to the shift from a legacy perpetual license business toward a cloud delivery model. Legacy license revenue decreased 89% to $188,000 in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $1.7 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. Excluding an insignificant net impact of foreign exchange fluctuation, legacy license revenue decreased by 88% or $1.5 million. The decrease in legacy license revenue related to the transition from a perpetual license model toward a cloud delivery model. We no longer sell legacy licenses to new customers and are actively working to migrate all existing legacy license customers to our cloud delivery model. Excluding the impact from any future foreign currency fluctuation, we anticipate legacy license revenue to decrease during fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017. Professional services revenue increased 23% to $2.7 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $2.2 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. Excluding an insignificant net impact of foreign exchange fluctuation, professional services increased by 23% or $507,000. The increase in professional services revenue was related to the increased implementation of customer projects. Excluding the impact from any future foreign currency fluctuation, we expect professional services revenue to increase or remain relatively constant during fiscal year 2018. Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Domestic $ 7,263 $ 7,262 $ 1 % International 7,312 7,483 (171) (2) % Total revenue $ 14,575 $ 14,745 $ (170) (1) % Revenue from domestic sales remained consistent at $7.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from the comparable year-ago quarter. Revenue from international sales decreased 2% to $7.3 million in the three months ended September 30, 2017 from $7.5 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The impact of foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro and British Pound was insignificant. Revenue from international sales increased by $107,000 including an increase of $538,000 in recurring revenue offset decreases of (i) $419,000 in legacy license revenue; and (ii) $12,000 in professional services revenue. 28 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Recurring $ 3,020 $ 2,927 $ 93 3 % Legacy license 18 7 11 157 % Professional services 2,388 2,130 258 12 % Total cost of revenue $ 5,426 $ 5,064 $ 362 7 % Percentage of total revenue 37 % 34 % Gross margin 63 % 66 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of compensation and benefits for our personnel who provide customer service to our customers for consulting, software maintenance and support services and personnel who support our server and network infrastructure, fees for outside consultants and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Total cost of revenue increased 7% to $5.4 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $5.1 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to increases of (i) $179,000 in cloud-related expenses due to the strategic decision to move to a ratable or cloud delivery business model from the hybrid model that included legacy perpetual licenses; (ii) $82,000 in outside consulting services driven by an increase in professional services revenue; (iii) $66,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses; and (iv) $23,000 in fluctuation from foreign exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar, Euro, British Pound and India Rupee. Gross margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2017 was 63% compared to 66% in the comparable year-ago quarter. Our business model shift to recurring revenue has generated lower gross margins than from traditional perpetual license sales. However, we expect to generate, on average, a greater lifetime value from subscription customers. Excluding fluctuations of foreign exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar and changes in severance and severance-related charges, we anticipate the cost of recurring revenue to remain relatively constant or increase in future quarters and the gross margin to remain relatively constant or improve. We anticipate the cost of legacy license revenue to remain relatively constant and the cost of professional services revenue to remain relatively constant or increase based on our current business plan. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Research and development $ 3,431 $ 3,675 $ (244) (7) % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 25 % Research and development expense primarily consists of compensation and benefits for our engineering, product management and development, and quality assurance personnel, fees for outside consultants and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Total costs for research and development decreased 7% to $3.4 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $3.7 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to decreases of (i) $160,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses; and (ii) $99,000 in outside consulting services. Total research and development revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 24% and 25% for the quarters ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Excluding fluctuations of foreign exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar and changes in severance and severance-related charges, we anticipate research and development expense to be relatively constant in dollar terms in future quarters based upon our current business plan. 29 Table of Contents Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Sales and marketing $ 4,166 $ 5,240 $ (1,074) (20) % Percentage of total revenue 29 % 36 % Sales and marketing expense primarily consist of compensation and benefits for our sales, marketing and business development personnel, lead generation activities, advertising, trade show and other promotional costs and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Sales and marketing expense decreased 20% to $4.2 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $5.2 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to decreases of (i) $1.1 million in personnel and personnel-related expenses; and (ii) $67,000 in amortization of intangible assets partially offset by an increase of (i) $30,000 in fluctuation from foreign exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar, Euro, British Pound and India Rupee; and (ii) $55,000 in outside consulting. Total sales and marketing expense as a percentage of total revenue was 29% and 36% for the quarters ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Excluding fluctuations of foreign exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar and changes in severance and severance-related charges, we anticipate sales and marketing expense to remain relatively constant or increase in dollar terms in future quarters based upon our current business plan. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change General and administrative $ 1,806 $ 2,031 $ (225) (11) % Percentage of total revenue 12 % 14 % General and administrative expense primarily consist of compensation and benefits for our finance, human resources, administrative and legal personnel, fees for outside professional services, provision for doubtful accounts and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Total general and administrative expense decreased 11% to $1.8 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 from $2.0 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primarily due to decreases of (i) $210,000 in bad debt expense; (ii) $141,000 in audit expenses; and (iii) $13,000 in fluctuation from foreign exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar, Euro, British Pound and India Rupee partially offset by increases of (i) $82,000 in legal expenses; and (ii) $64,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses. Total general and administrative expense as a percentage of total revenue was 12% and 14% for the quarters ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. Excluding fluctuations of foreign exchange rates against the U.S. Dollar and changes in severance and severance-related charges, we anticipate general and administrative expense to remain relatively constant in dollar terms in future quarters based upon our current business plan. Loss from Operations Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2017 2016 Change Loss from operations $ (254) $ (1,265) $ 1,011 80 % Operating margin (2) % (9) % Loss from operations in the quarter ended September 30, 2017 was $254,000 which included $504,000 of amortization of purchased intangible assets and $319,000 of stock-based compensation expenses, compared to loss from operations of $1.3 million which included $579,000 of amortization of purchased intangible assets and $236,000 of stock-based compensation expenses in the comparable year-ago quarter. We recorded a 2% negative operating margin in the quarter ended September 30, 2017, compared to a 9% negative operating margin in the comparable year-ago quarter. 30 Table of Contents Interest Expense, Net Interest expense consists of interest on bank borrowings and capital leases. Interest expense, net was $344,000 and $422,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The decrease in interest expense primarily relates to interest paid on lower average bank borrowings. Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net was $131,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to other income, net of $108,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2016. Other income (expense), net primarily consisted of exchange rate gain/loss on foreign currency transactions. Income Tax Provision We recorded an income tax benefit of $161,000 and an income tax provision of $832,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2017 and 2016, respectively. The income tax benefit and income tax provision for the respective periods primarily related to foreign and state income tax benefit (provision). Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of September 30, 2017, our cash and cash equivalents was $10.7 million compared to cash and cash equivalents of $10.6 million as of June 30, 2017. As of September 30, 2017, our deferred revenue was $27.0 million compared to $23.2 million on June 30, 2017. Unbilled deferred revenue, representing business that has been contracted but not yet invoiced or collected and off balance sheet, was $35.2 million as of September 30, 2017, down from $37.0 million as of June 30, 2017. Excluding deferred financing costs, we reduced bank borrowings by $5.9 million to $10.1 million as of September 30, 2017 from $16.0 million as of June 30, 2017. We have available credit of $12.5 million in revolving loan commitments with Wells Fargo Bank as of September 30, 2017. Based upon our fiscal year 2018 plan, we believe that existing capital resources will continue to enable us to maintain current and planned operations for at least the next 12 months. From time to time, however, we may consider opportunities for raising additional capital and/or exchanging all or a portion of our existing debt for equity. We can make no assurances that such opportunities will be available to us on economic terms we consider favorable, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to achieve or sustain positive cash flows, maintain current operations, fund any potential expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our expectations as to our future cash flows and our future cash balances are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions regarding anticipated increases in our revenue, the mix of new cloud and license business, our ability to retain existing customers and customer purchasing and payment patterns, many of which are beyond our control. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities was $5.9 million during the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $2.4 million in the comparable year-ago period. Net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to a reduced net loss of $568,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to a net loss of $2.4 million in the comparable year-ago period before adjusting for depreciation and amortization, amortization of intangible assets, amortization of deferred commissions, amortization of deferred financing costs, deferred income taxes, stock-based compensation, provision for doubtful accounts, loss on disposal of fixed assets and changes in operating assets and liabilities. The decrease in accounts receivable was due to improved cash collections and the increase 31 Table of Contents in deferred revenue related to our strategic decision to move to a ratable or cloud delivery business model from the hybrid model that included legacy perpetual licenses led to the improvement in cash provided by operating activities. Net cash used in investing activities was $32,000 during the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to net cash used in investing activities of $42,000 in the comparable year-ago period. Net cash used in investing activities was related to the purchase of property and equipment for both periods. Net cash used in financing activities was $5.8 million during the three months ended September 30, 2017 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $4.7 million in the comparable year-ago period. Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2017 primarily related to the repayment of $8.5 million of bank borrowings and $34,000 in payments on capital lease obligations offset by $2.5 million in borrowings from our bank facilities and $112,000 in proceeds from the exercise of stock options. Net cash used in financing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2016 primarily related to $5.3 million in repayment of borrowings from our bank facilities and $88,000 in payments on capital lease obligations offset by $618,000 in borrowings from our bank facilities. Lease Commitments In December 2016, we entered into a two-year sublease agreement for the 22,000 square feet of space with a subtenant that commenced on January 1, 2017. As a result, the remaining lease exit liability was reversed as a credit to rent expense during the three months ended December 31, 2016. Rental income from the sublease was $154,000 during the three months ended September 30, 2017. There was no other significant change to our contractual obligations since June 30, 2017. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2017, we had no significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K, other than operating leases and co-location agreement that were included in our commitment schedule as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2017. There was no significant change since June 30, 2017.