Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read together with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the related notes included in Item 1 of Part I of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q, and with our audited financial statements and the related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 2015. This report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 19 95 . These statements may be identified by the use of the words such as aims, anticipates, believes, continue, could, would, estimates, expects, intends, may, might, plans, potential , should, or will and similar expressions or the negative of those terms. The forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements regarding: the effect of changes in macroeconomic factors beyond our control; our hybrid revenue model and its potential impact on our total revenue; our ability to predict subscription renewals or upgrade rates ; the result of our failure to comply with the covenants under the Wells Fargo Bank Facility; our lengthy sales cycles and the difficulty in predicting timing of sales or delays; competition in the markets in which we do business and our failure to compete successfully therein; our expectations regarding the composition of our customers and the result of a loss of a significant customer; the adequacy of our capital resources and need for additional financing and the effect of failing to obtain adequate funding; the development and expansion of our strategic and third party distribution partnership s and relationships with systems integrators; our ability to effectively implement and improve our current products; our ability to innovate and respond to rapid technological change and competitive challenges; legal liability or the effect of negative publicity for the services provided to consumers via our technology platforms; legal and regulatory uncertainties and other risks related to protection of our intellectual property assets; our ability to anticipate our competitors; the operational integrity and maintenance of our systems; the effect of unauthorized access to a customers data or our data or our IT systems; the uncertainty of demand for our products; the anticipated customer benefits from our products; the actual mix in new business between cloud and license transactions when compared with managements projections; the anticipated revenue to us from the Cisco Partnership; the ability to increase revenue as a result of the increased investment in sales and marketing; our ability to hire additional personnel and retain key personnel; our ability to expand and improve our sales performance and marketing activities; our ability to manage our expenditures and estimate future expenses, revenue, and operational requirements; our ability to manage our business plans, strategies and outlooks and any business-related forecasts or projections; the effect of changes to management judgments and estimates; the impact of any modification to our pricing practices in the future; risks from our substantial international operations; our inability to successfully detect weaknesses or errors in our internal controls; our ability to manage future growth; the trading price of our common stock; geographical and currency fluctuations; and our expectations with respect to revenue, cost of revenue, expenses and other financial metrics. Forward looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those risks discussed in Risk Factors Item 1A in this report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 201 5 which is incorporated herein by reference. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in statements relating to our future plans, product releases, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other assumptions underlying or relating to any of these statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Readers are directed to risks and uncertainties identified below, under Risk Factors and elsewhere in this report, for factors that may cause actual results to be different than those expressed in these forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason. All references to eGain, the Company, our, we or us mean eGain Corporation and its subsidiaries, except where it is clear from the context that such terms mean only this parent company and excludes subsidiaries. eGain and the eGain are trademarks of eGain Corporation. We also refer to trademarks of other corporations and organizations in this report. 20 Table of Contents Overview eGain Corporation is a leading provider of cloud-based and on-site customer engagement software solutions. For over a decade, our solutions have helped improve customer experience, grow sales, and optimize service processes across the web, social, and phone channels. Hundreds of global enterprises rely on eGain to transform fragmented sales engagement and customer service operations into unified Customer Interaction Hubs. We provide advanced analytics and management software that helps enterprises use their customer contact and call center resources more effectively, improving their customers experience, reducing churn and enhancing productivity. Our products enable organizations to move away from legacy contact center infrastructure and consolidate in cloud environments, which enhances productivity and improves customer experience. We have operations in the United States, United Kingdom, Netherlands, Ireland, Germany, South Africa and India. We provide advanced analytics and management software that help enterprises use their customer contact and call center resources more effectively, improving their customers experience, reducing churn and enhancing productivity. Our products enable organizations to move away from legacy contact center infrastructure and consolidate in cloud environments, which enhances productivity and improves customer experience. Unbilled Deferred Revenue Unbilled deferred revenue represents business that is contracted but not yet invoiced or collected and offbalance-sheet and, accordingly, is not recorded in deferred revenue. As such, the deferred revenue balance on our condensed consolidated balance sheets does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable subscription agreements. As of September 30, 2015 , unbilled deferred revenue increased to $ 26.6 million, from approximately $2 6 . 5 million as of June 30, 201 5 . Key Financial Measures We monitor the key financial performance measures set forth below as well as cash and cash equivalents and available debt capacity, which are discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources, to help us evaluate trends, establish budgets, measure the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts and assess operational effectiveness and efficiencies. These key financial performance measures include certain non-GAAP metrics, including Adjusted EBITDA as defined below. The presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as net income (loss), adjusted for the impact of purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue related to acquisitions, depreciation and amortization, stock-based compensation expense, interest ex pense, net, income tax provision (benefit) , amortization of acquired intangibles, and acquisition-related expenses. Management believes that it is useful to exclude certain non-cash charges and non-core operational charges from Adjusted EBITDA because (1) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and (2) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of the timing of new stock-based awards and acquisitions. Adjusted EBITDA was a loss of $ 0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015. For the three months ended September 30, 2014, a djusted EBITDA was income of $ 0.9 million. 21 Table of Contents The following table presents our key financial measures, including a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to net income ( loss ) for each of the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Revenue $ 16,476 $ 20,704 Add: Purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue related to acquisitions 20 86 Non-GAAP Revenue 16,496 20,790 Gross Profit 10,004 13,717 Adjusted EBITDA Net loss $ (3,237) $ (1,636) Add: Purchase accounting adjustments to deferred revenue related to acquisitions 20 86 Depreciation and amortization 549 668 Stock-based compensation expense 513 558 Interest expense, net 333 123 Income tax provision 334 32 Amortization of acquired intangible assets 695 425 Acquisition-related expenses 615 Severance and related charges 24 Adjusted EBITDA $ (769) $ 871 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations discuss our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expense during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, our management evaluates its estimates and judgments, including those related to revenue recognition, allowance for doubtful accounts, deferred tax valuation allowance and accrued liabilities, long-lived assets, stock-based compensation goodwill and intangible assets and contingencies. Management bases its estimates and judgments on historical experience and on various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There have been no material changes to these estimates for the periods presented in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. For a detailed explanation of the judgments made in these areas, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations within our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended June 30, 201 5 , which we filed with the Securities and Exchange Com mission, or SEC, on September 11 , 201 5 . We have reassessed the critical accounting policies as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on September 1 1 , 201 5 and determined that there were no significant changes to our critical accounting policies in the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Business Combinations Business combinations are accounted for at fair value under the purchase method of accounting. Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred and recorded in general and administrative expenses and changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and income tax uncertainties after the acquisition date affect income tax expense. The accounting for business combinations requires estimates and judgment as to expectations for future cash flows of the acquired business, and the allocation of those cash flows to identifiable intangible assets, in determining the estimated fair value for assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The fair values assigned to tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed are based on managements estimates and assumptions, as well as other information compiled by management, 22 Table of Contents including valuations that utilize customary valuation procedures and techniques. If the actual results differ from the estimates and judgments used in these estimates, the amounts recorded in the condensed consolidated financial statements could result in a possible impairment of the intangible assets and goodwill, or require acceleration of the amortization expense of finite-lived intangible assets. Revenue Recognition We enter into arrangements to deliver multiple products or services (multiple-elements). We apply software revenue recognition rules and multiple-elements arrangement revenue guidance. Significant management judgments and estimates are made and used to determine the revenue recognized in any accounting period. Material differences may result in changes to the amount and timing of our revenue for any period if different conditions were to prevail. We present revenue, net of taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities. We derive revenue from three sources: (i) Subscription and support fees primarily consist of cloud revenue from customers accessing our enterprise cloud computing services, term license revenue, and maintenance and support revenue; (ii) License fees primarily consist of perpetual software license revenue; (iii) Professional services primarily consist of consulting, implementation services and training. Revenue is recognized when all of the following criteria are met: Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists: Evidence of an arrangement consists of a written contract signed by both the customer and management prior to the end of the period. We use signed software license, services agreements and order forms as evidence of an arrangement for sales of software, cloud, maintenance and support. We use signed statement of work as evidence of arrangement for professional services. Delivery or performance has occurre d: Software is delivered to customers electronically or on a CD-ROM, and license files are delivered electronically. Delivery is considered to have occurred when we provide the customer access to the software along with login credentials. Fees are fixed or determinable: We assess whether the fee is fixed or determinable based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. Arrangements where a significant portion of the fee is due beyond 90 days from delivery are generally not considered to be fixed or determinable. Collectibility is probable: We assess collectibility based on a number of factors, including the customers past payment history and its current creditworthiness. Payment t erms generally range from 30 to 90 days from invoice date. If we determine that collection of a fee is not reasonably assured, we defer the revenue and recognize it at the time collection becomes reasonably assured, which is generally upon receipt of cash payment. We apply the provisions of ASC 985-605, Software Revenue Recognition , to all transactions involving the licensing of software products. In the event of a multiple element arrangement for a license transaction, we evaluate the transaction as if each element represents a separate unit of accounting taking into account all factors following the accounting standards. We apply ASC 605, Revenue Recognition, for cloud transactions to determine the accounting treatment for multiple elements. We also apply ASC 605-35 for fixed fee arrangements in which we use the percentage of completion method to recognize revenue when reliable estimates are available for the costs and efforts necessary to complete the implementation services. When such estimates are not available, the completed contract method is utilized. Under the completed contract method, revenue is recognized only when a contract is completed or substantially complete. When licenses are sold together with system implementation and consulting services, license fees are recognized upon shipment, provided that (i) payment of the license fees is not dependent upon the performance of the consulting and implementation services, (ii) the services are available from other vendors, (iii) the services qualify for separate 23 Table of Contents accounting as we have sufficient experience in providing such services, have the ability to estimate cost of providing such services, and we have vendor-specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value, and (iv) the services are not essential to the functionality of the software. We evaluate whether each of the elements in these arrangements represents a separate unit of accounting, as defined by ASC 605, using all applicable facts and circumstances, including whether (i) we sell or could readily sell the element unaccompanied by the other elements, (ii) the element has stand-alone value to the customer, and (iii) there is a general right of return. We use VSOE, of fair value for each of those units, when available. For revenue recognition with multiple-deliverable elements, in certain limited circumstances when VSOE of fair value does not exist, we apply the selling price hierarchy, which includes VSOE, third-party evidence of selling price, or TPE, and best estimate of selling price, or BESP. We determine the relative selling price for a deliverable based on VSOE, if available, or BESP, if VSOE is not available. We have determined that TPE is not a practical alternative due to differences in our service offerings compared to other parties and the availability of relevant third-party pricing information. We determine BESP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, customer demographic, the geographic area where services are sold, price lists, its go-to-market strategy, historical standalone sales and contract prices. The determination of BESP is made through consultation with and approval by our management, taking into consideration the go-to-market strategy. As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in relative selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. Subscription and Support Revenue Cloud Revenue Cloud services revenue consists of fees from customers subscribing to our cloud-based service offerings. We recognize cloud services revenue ratably over the period of the applicable agreement as services are provided. Cloud agreements typically have an initial term of 12 to 36 months and automatically renew unless either party cancels the agreement. The majority of the cloud services customers purchase a combination of our cloud service and professional services. In some cases, the customer may also acquire a license for our software. We consider the applicability of ASC 985-605, on a contract-by-contract basis. In cloud services agreements, where the customer does not have the contractual right to take possession of the software, the revenue is recognized on a monthly basis over the term of the contract. Invoiced amounts are recorded in accounts receivable and in deferred revenue or revenue, depending on whether the revenue recognition criteria have been met. We consider a software element to exist when we determine that the customer has the contractual right to take possession of our software at any time during the cloud period without significant penalty and can feasibly run the software on its own hardware or enter into another arrangement with a third party to host the software. Additionally, we have established VSOE for the cloud and maintenance and support elements of perpetual license sales, based on the prices charged when sold separately and substantive renewal terms. Accordingly, when a software element exists in a cloud services arrangement, license revenue for the perpetual software license element is determined using the residual method and is recognized upon delivery. Revenue for the cloud and maintenance and support elements is recognized ratably over the contractual time period. Professional services are recognized as described below under Professional Services Revenue. If VSOE of fair value cannot be established for the undelivered elements of an agreement, the entire amount of revenue from the arrangement is recognized ratably over the period that these elements are delivered. Term License Revenue Term license revenue includes arrangements where our customers receive license rights to use our software along with bundled maintenance and support services for the term of the contract. The majority of our contracts provide customers with the right to use one or more products up to a specific license volume. Certain of our license agreements specify that customers can exceed pre-determined base volume levels, in which case additional fees are specified in the license agreement. Term license revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the license contract. 24 Table of Contents Maintenance and Support Revenue Maintenance and support revenue consists of customers purchasing maintenance and support for our on-premise software. We use VSOE of fair value for maintenance and support to account for the arrangement using the residual method, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element. Maintenance and support revenue is recognized ratably over the term of the maintenance contract, which is typically one year. Maintenance and support is renewable by the customer on an annual basis. Maintenance and support rates, including subsequent renewal rates, are typically established based upon a specified percentage of net license fees as set forth in the arrangement. License Revenue License revenue includes perpetual licenses sold to customers to use our software in conjunction with related maintenance and support services. If an acceptance period is required, revenue is recognized upon the earlier of customer acceptance or the expiration of the acceptance period. In software arrangements that include rights to multiple software products and/or services, we use the residual method under which revenue is allocated to the undelivered elements based on VSOE of the fair value of such undelivered elements. The residual amount of revenue is allocated to the delivered elements and recognized as revenue, assuming all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met. Such undelivered elements in these arrangements typically consist of software maintenance and support, implementation and consulting services and in some cases, cloud services. We periodically sell to resellers. License sales to resellers as a percentage of total revenue were approximately 6 % and 29 % for the three months ended September 3 0 , 201 5 and 201 4 , respectively. Revenue from sales to resellers is generally recognized upon delivery to the reseller but depends on the facts and circumstances of the transaction, such as our understanding of the resellers plans to sell the software, if there are any return provisions, price protection or other allowances, the resellers financial status and our experience with the particular reseller. Historically sales to resellers have not included any return provisions, price protections or other allowances. Professional Services Revenue Professional services revenue includes system implementation, consulting and training. For license transactions, the majority of our consulting and implementation services qualify for separate accounting. We use VSOE of fair value for the services to account for the arrangement using the residual method, regardless of any separate prices stated within the contract for each element. Our consulting and implementation service contracts are bid either on a fixed-fee basis or on a time-and-materials basis. Substantially all of our contracts are on a time-and-materials basis. For time-and-materials contracts, where the services are not essential to the functionality, we recognize revenue as services are performed. If the services are essential to functionality, then both the license revenue and the service revenue are recognized under the percentage of completion method. For a fixed-fee contract, we recognize revenue based upon the costs and efforts to complete the services in accordance with the percentage of completion method, provided we are able to estimate such cost and efforts. Under ASC 605-25, in order to account for deliverables in a multiple-deliverable arrangement as separate units of accounting, the deliverables must have standalone value upon delivery. For cloud services, in determining whether professional services have standalone value, we consider the following factors for each professional services agreement: availability of the services from other vendors, the nature of the professional services, the timing of when the professional services contract was signed in comparison to the subscription service start date and the contractual dependence of the subscription service on the customers satisfaction with the professional services work. We determined at or around July 1, 2013 that we had established standalone value for these implementation services under cloud contracts . This was primarily due to the change in our business focus, the growing number of partners we trained and certified to perform these deployment services and the consequential sale of subscription services without bundled implementation service. Revenues earned from professional services related to consulting and implementation of a majority of our core subscription services are being accounted for separately from revenues earned 25 Table of Contents from subscription services beginning July 1, 2013 when the standalone value was established for those professional services. For those contracts that have standalone value, we recognized the services revenue when rendered for time and material contracts, when the milestones are achieved and accepted by the customer for fixed price contracts or by percentage of completion basis if there is no acceptance criteria. For cloud, consulting and implementation services that do not qualify for separate accounting, we recognize the services revenue ratably over the estimated life of the customer cloud relationship, once cloud has gone live or system ready. We currently estimate the life of the customer cloud relationship to be approximately 28 months, based on the average life of all cloud customer relationships. Training revenue that meets the criteria to be accounted for separately is recognized when training is provided. Deferred Revenue Deferred revenue primarily consists of payments received in advance of revenue recognition from cloud, term license, and maintenance and support services and is recognized as the revenue recognition criteria are met. We generally invoice customers in annual or quarterly installments. The deferred revenue balance does not represent the total contract value of annual or multi-year, non-cancelable cloud or maintenance and support agreements. Deferred revenue is influenced by several factors, including seasonality, the compounding effects of renewals, invoice duration, invoice timing and new business linearity within the quarter. Deferred revenue that will be recognized during the succeeding twelve month period is recorded as current deferred revenue and the remaining portion is recorded as noncurrent. As of September 30, 2015, deferred revenue decreased to $13.1 million, compared to $1 5 . 8 million as of June 30, 201 5 . Deferred Commissions Deferred commissions are the direct and incremental costs directly associated with cloud contracts with customers and consist of sales commissions to the Companys direct sales force. The commissions are deferred and amortized over the terms of the related customer contracts, which are typically one or two years. The commission payments are paid based on contract terms in the month following the quarter in which the commissions are earned. The deferred commission amounts are recognized as Sales and marketing expense in the condensed consolidated statements of operations over the terms of the related customer contracts, in proportion to the recognition of the associated revenue. 26 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table sets forth certain items reflected in our condensed consolidated statements of operations expressed as a percent of total revenue for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended September 30, 2015 2014 Revenue: Subscription and support 66 % 50 % License 15 % 33 % Professional services 19 % 17 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of subscription and support 19 % 14 % Cost of license % % Cost of professional services 20 % 20 % Total cost of revenue 39 % 34 % Gross profit 61 % 66 % Operating expenses: Research and development 24 % 18 % Sales and marketing 40 % 41 % General and administrative 14 % 14 % Total operating expenses 78 % 73 % Loss from operations (17) % (7) % Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change % Subscription and support $ 10,842 $ 10,445 $ 397 4 % License 2,426 6,728 (4,302) (64) % Professional services 3,208 3,531 (323) (9) % Total revenue $ 16,476 $ 20,704 $ (4,228) (20) % Total revenue decreased 20 % to $ 16.5 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $ 20.7 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. Subscription and support revenue, which is comprised of cloud, term license and software maintenance and support reve nue increased 4% to $10.8 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $ 10.5 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The increase in subscription and support revenue was primarily due to an increase in maintenance and support from our license business partially offset by a reduction in cloud revenue primarily due to the decreased annual contract value from one customer renewal. License revenue de creased 64 % to $ 2.4 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $6.7 million in the comp arable year-ago quarter. The de crease in license revenue was primarily due to the shift from perpetual license business towards a cloud delivery model . Professional services revenue decreased 9% to $3.2 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $3.5 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The de crease in professional services revenue was primarily due to our strategic decision to reduce our focus on directly providing consulting and implementation services to our customers and shifting these services to our partners. Additionally, our version 14 product release has simplified the deployment process for new and upgrade installations, further reducing the effort previously required by our professional services staff. 27 Table of Contents Revenue by Geographic Area Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change % Domestic $ 9,600 $ 12,229 $ (2,629) (21) % International 6,876 8,475 (1,599) (19) % Total revenue $ 16,476 $ 20,704 $ (4,228) (20) % Revenue from international sales decreased 19% to $6.9 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $ 8.5 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The impact of the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar and the Euro and British Pound resulted in a net de crease of $ 26 ,000 in total revenue in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 . To measure the impact of foreign exchange rate fluctuation, we recalculate current period results using the comparable prior period exchange rate. Cost of Revenue Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change % Subscription and support $ 3,079 $ 2,879 $ 200 7 % License 7 28 (21) (75) % Professional services 3,386 4,080 (694) (17) % Total cost of revenue $ 6,472 $ 6,987 $ (515) (7) % Percentage of total revenue 39 % 34 % Gross margin 61 % 66 % Cost of revenue primarily consists of compensation and benefits for our personnel who provide customer service to our customers for consulting, software maintenance and support services and personnel who support our server and network infrastructure , fees for outside consultants and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. To tal cost of revenue decreased 7 % to $ 6.5 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $7.0 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. Tot al cost of revenue represented 39% and 34 % of total revenue in the quarters ended September 30, 2015 and 201 4 , respectively. Th e change was primarily due to de creases of (i) $ 355,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses ; (ii) $261 ,000 from the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee; and (iii) $21,000 in license related expenses partially offset by increases of (i) $ 118,000 in cloud related expense such as hosted network and lease cost paid to remote co-location centers; and (ii) $26 ,000 in intangible amortization of customer relationships related to acquired maintenance contracts . Gross margin for the quarter ended September 30, 2015 was 6 1 % compared to 6 6 % in the comparable year-ago quarter. Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. dollar, we anticipate cost of subscription and support to increase in fiscal year 2016 and the gross margin to remain relatively constant as we continue to invest in our cloud infrastructure. We anticipate cost of license as a percentage of total license revenue to remain relatively constant while the cost of professional services to decrease and gross margin to increase in future quarters based upon our current business plan. Operating Expenses Research and Development Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change % Research and development $ 3,900 $ 3,741 $ 159 4 % Percentage of total revenue 24 % 18 % Research and development expense primarily consists of compensation and benefits for our engineering, product management and development, and quality assurance personnel, fees for outside consultants and, to a lesser extent, 28 Table of Contents occupancy costs and related overhead. Total costs for research and development increased 4 % to $ 3.9 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $3.7 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primar ily due to increases of (i) $ 170 ,000 in intangible amortization of acquired developed software technology ; (ii) $68,000 in outside consulting services ; and (iii) $21,000 in personnel and personnel-related expenses partially offset by a decrease of $ 100 ,000 from the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee. Total research and development revenue as a percentage of total revenue was 24 % and 1 8 % for the quarters ended September 30, 2015 and 201 4 , respectively. Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. dollar, we anticipate research and development expense to decrease as a percentage of total revenue in future quarters based upon our current business plan. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change % Sales and marketing $ 6,668 $ 8,505 $ (1,837) (22) % Percentage of total revenue 40 % 41 % Sales and marketing expense primarily consist of compensation and benefits for our sales, marketing and business development personnel, lead generation activities, advertising, trade show and other promotional costs and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Sales an d marketing expense decreased 22 % to $ 6.7 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $ 8.5 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. The change was primar ily due to decreases of (i) $1.6 million in personnel and personnel-related expenses of which $ 919,000 relates to sales commissions and (ii) $456 ,000 from the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee partially offset by increases of (i) $92,000 in marketing program expenses; (ii) $67 ,000 in intangible amortization of customer relationships related to acquired software contracts and (iii) $46,000 in outside consulting services . Total sales and marketing expense as a p ercentage of total revenue was 40 % and 4 1 % for the quarters ended September 30, 2015 and 201 4 , respectively. Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. dollar, we anticipate s ales and marketing expense to decrease or remain relatively constant as a percentage of total revenue in future quarters based upon our current business plan. General and Administrative Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change % General and administrative $ 2,246 $ 2,942 $ (696) (24) % Percentage of total revenue 14 % 14 % General and administrative expense primarily consist of compensation and benefits for our finance, human resources, administrative and legal personnel, fees for outside professional services, provision for doubtful accounts and, to a lesser extent, occupancy costs and related overhead. Total gener al and administrative expense de creased 24 % to $ 2.2 million in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 from $ 2.9 million in the comparable year-ago quarter. Th e change was primarily due to de creases of (i) $ 629 ,000 in personnel and personnel-related expense ; (ii) $ 113 ,000 in legal expenses ; (iii) $ 77 ,000 from the foreign exchange fluctuation between the U.S. Dollar, the Euro, British Pound and India Rupee ; and (iv) $ 66 ,000 in bad debt expense partially offset by increase of $ 181 ,000 from outside consulting services , including accounting and audit services . Total general and administrative expense as a percentage of total revenue was 14% for the quarters ended September 30, 2015 and 201 4 . Excluding any fluctuations of foreign exchange rates in European and Indian currencies against the U.S. dollar, we anticipate g eneral and administrative expense to decrease as a percentage of total revenue in future quarters based upon our current business plan. 29 Table of Contents Loss from Operations Three Months Ended September 30, (in thousands) 2015 2014 Change % Loss from operations $ (2,810) $ (1,471) $ (1,339) 91 % Operating margin (17) % (7) % Loss from operations in the quarter ended September 30, 2015 was $2.8 million which included $ 695 ,000 of amortization of purchased intangible assets and $ 513,000 of stock-based compensation expenses, compared to loss from operations of $1.5 million which included $ 425 ,000 of amortization of purchased intangible assets $558 ,000 of stock-based compensation expenses in the comparable y ear-ago quarter. We recorded a 17 % negative operating margin in the quarter ended September 30, 2015, compared to a 7 % negative operating margin in the comparable year-ago quarter. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense consists of interest on bank borrowings and capital leases. Interest expense, net was $ 333 ,000 and $123,000 in the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The increase in interest expense primarily relates to interest paid on bank borrowing repayments and capital leasing agreements. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net was income of $ 240 ,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015. Other income primarily consists of exchange rate gains on international trade receivables due to the weakening of the British Pound and Euro against the dollar in which certain sales were denominated. Other income (expense), net was expense of $10,000 for the three ended September 30, 2014 which primarily consisted of an unclaimed property refund offset by exchange rate gain/loss on foreign currency transactions. Income Tax Provision We recorded an income tax provision of $ 334 ,000 and $32,000 for the three months ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The income tax expenses was primarily due to the income tax provision for foreign subsidiaries . Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of September 30, 2015 our cash and cash equivalents were $ 7.3 million and our negative working capital was $ 758,000 compared to cash and cash equivalents of $ 8.6 million and negative working capital of $ 2.0 million as of June 30, 201 5 . As of September 30, 2015 our restricted cash was $16,000 compared to restricted cash of $676,000 as of June 30, 2015. The decrease in restricted cash was primarily attributed to the payment of Exony Limiteds (Exony) management incentive bonus which was paid in August 2015, the first anniversary of the Exony acquisition close date. As of September 30, 2015 , our deferred revenue was $ 13.1 million compared to $1 5.8 million on June 30, 201 5 . Unbilled deferred revenue, representing business that is contracted but not yet invoiced or collected and off balance sheet, was $ 26.6 million as of September 30, 2015, up from $26.5 million as of June 30, 2015. On November 21, 2014 , we entered into a new $20 million credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank to be used for working capital and support our strategic growth plans . The new facility, which includes a $10 million, five-year term loan and a $10 million revolver, replaces our prior credit facility with Comerica Bank . For the term loan, we must make quarterly installments of principal at varying amount s , plus all accrued interest, at specified dates through the maturity date of November 21, 2019 , at which time remaining amounts are immediately due and payable. 30 Table of Contents On September 1, 2015, we amended the credit facility with Wells Fargo to increase the revolver from $10 million to $15 million and increased the quarterly installments of principal at varying amounts, plus all accrued interest, at specified dates through the maturity date which remained unchanged at November 21, 2019. Based upon our fiscal year 201 6 plan, we believe that existing capital resources will enable us to maintain current and planned operations for at least the next 12 months. From time to time, however, we may consider opportunities for raising additional capital and/or exchanging all or a portion of our existing debt for equity. We can make no assurances that such opportunities will be available to us on economic terms we consider favorable, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to achieve or sustain positive cash flows, maintain current operations, fund any potential expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance products or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our expectations as to our future cash flows and our future cash balances are subject to a number of assumptions, including assumptions regarding anticipated increases in our revenue, the mix of new cloud and license business, our ability to retain existing customers and customer purchasing and payment patterns, many of which are beyond our control. Cash Flows Net cash used in operating activities was $ 5.6 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to cash used in operating activities of $ 6.0 million in the comparable year-ago period. The decrease in cash used was primarily due to adjustments to reconcile net loss to cash used in operating activities, specifically the decreases in accounts receivable due to the timing of prepayments received for cloud customer renewals and accrued compensation related to the settlement of remaining Exony management incentive bonuses offset by a net loss of $ 3.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to a net loss of $ 1 . 6 million in the comparable year-ago period. Net cash provided by investing activities was $ 578,000 during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to cash used in investing activities of $ 4.0 million during the comparable year-ago period. The net provided by investing activities during the three months ended September 30, 2015 primarily related to a de crease in restricted cash of $ 647,000 related to escrow funds reserved for the payment of Exony management incentive bonuses offset by $69,000 of equipment and software purchases . Net cash used in investing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2014 primarily related to $1.9 million of net cash paid for the acquisition of Exony, net of cash acquired , an increase in restricted cash of $ 2.0 million related to escrow funds reserved for the payment of Exony management incentive bonuses and $71,000 of equipment and software purchases. Net cash provided by financing activities was $ 3 . 5 million during the three months ended September 30, 2015 compared to cash provided by financing activities of $ 6.5 million during the comparable year-ago period. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2015 primarily related to $ 4.0 million in borrowings from our bank facilities used to support our strategic growth plans partially offset by the repayment of $ 256 ,000 principal payments on capital lease obligations and $ 188,000 of existing bank borrowings. Net cash provided by financing activities for the three months ended September 30, 2014 primarily related to $ 7.0 million in borrowings from our bank facilities used to finance the majority of the acquisition of Exony and $ 34,000 from the exercise of stock options offset by the repayment of $ 250,000 of existing bank borrowings and $ 233 ,000 principal payment s on capital lease obligation s . Commitments The re was no significant change to our contractual obligations since June 30, 2015. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of September 30, 2015 we had no significant off-balance-sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4) of SEC Regulation S-K, other than operating leases and co-location agreement that were included in our commitment schedule as disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 201 5 . There was no signif icant change since June 30, 2015 . 31 Table of Contents