Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Background The purchase and sale of health insurance have historically been complex, time-consuming and paper-intensive processes. The complexity can make it difficult to make informed health insurance decisions. In addition, the human errors that arise from traditional paper-intensive distribution have historically resulted in a high number of incomplete and inaccurate applications being submitted to health insurance carriers. These incomplete and inaccurate paper applications often result in back-and-forth communications, delay and additional costs. The Internets convenient, information-rich and interactive nature offers the opportunity to provide consumers with more organized information, a broader choice of plans and a more efficient process than have typically been available from traditional health insurance distribution channels. We believe that over time the Internet will become an increasingly important channel for researching and enrolling into health insurance plans, similar to other consumer-focused industries such as travel, financial services and shopping. Medicare is a federal program that provides persons sixty-five years of age and over, and some persons under the age of sixty-five who meet certain conditions, with hospital and medical insurance benefits. Medicare beneficiaries choose between Medicare Fee-For-Service and Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Fee-For-Service is a government plan where the consumer is responsible for select health care related payments with no limit on out-of-pocket expenses. To increase coverage, Medicare Fee-For-Service beneficiaries can purchase commercially offered Medicare Supplement plans. Medicare Advantage is an alternative to Medicare Fee-For-Service. CMS contracts with private health insurance carriers under the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug programs. Under these programs, the government pays health insurance carriers a fixed amount of money each year per enrollee to cover health care expenses rather than making payments directly to providers under Medicare Fee-For-Service. Medicare Advantage plans are required to cover the same services as Medicare Fee-For-Service and usually cover a variety of other health care services and include a cap on out-of-pocket spending for the consumer. Individual and family products are typically purchased by consumers under 65 years of age that do not have coverage through their employer. Small business group health insurance addresses the health insurance needs of businesses with 100 or fewer employees, although we have chosen to focus on employer groups of 20 or fewer employees. Individual, family and small business health insurance has historically been sold by independent insurance agents and, to a lesser degree, directly by insurance companies. Many of these agents are self-employed or part of small agencies, and they typically service only their local communities. In addition, many of these agents sell health insurance from a limited number of insurance carriers (in some cases only one), resulting in a reduced selection of plans for the consumer. Our Growth Strategy We believe our consumer engagement platform and approach to bringing value to consumers is unique in the health insurance market and creates significant opportunities for growth in our core Medicare business and in other areas of the health insurance market. We intend to pursue the following strategies to further advance our business. 6 Increase Medicare Membership and Commission Revenue We intend to enroll additional Medicare Advantage, Medicare Supplement, and Medicare Part D prescription drug plan members for our commercial carrier partners. In addition to the expansion of the Medicare-eligible population, a significantly large number of Medicare-eligible individuals have insufficient coverage or a suboptimal plan for their circumstances. We believe that our platform of proprietary content, decision support tools and enrollment solutions and go-to-market strategies in direct-to-consumer and partner channels, can allow us to reach a large portion of this underserved market and grow our membership and revenue more rapidly than the overall Medicare market. Enhance Post-Enrollment Consumer Engagement and Increase Customer Retention We continually invest in our consumer engagement platform to add products and services. We are also enhancing our consumer experience, both online and telephonically, to simplify and encourage the use of our platform for future enrollments as consumer needs and plan selection evolves. Our goal is to, over time, increase the contribution from repeat customers to our total enrollments. We believe that increased consumer engagement and customer retention will have a positive impact on our revenue as well as lower our marketing, customer care and enrollment costs. Increase Online Enrollment to Improve Margins and Enhance Operating Leverage We view our consumer engagement platform as unique in the Medicare market and as attractive to the growing number of Medicare beneficiaries who prefer to research, compare and purchase health insurance online. The percentage of members who submit applications for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement products online through our platform has substantially increased from 10% in 2017 to 16% in 2018 to 27% in 2019. Online submitted applications include applications submitted with and without assistance from call center agents prior to the final submission of an application. We are able to scale growth more rapidly and at an incrementally lower cost basis though our online platform, which significantly reduces our reliance on and financial and managerial resources associated with our call center operations. Expand Our Strategic Relationships The value of our consumer engagement and enrollment solution platform allows us to work closely with strategic partners in the health care market to leverage their relationships with consumers. We expect to increase the contribution to total Medicare enrollments from this effective demand generation channel which has shown a positive impact on customer engagement and increased customer retention. In 2019, we had strategic relationships with each of the top five retail pharmacies in the United States, a growing networks of leading hospital systems in the United States and with select financial and affinity marketing organizations to expand the availability of our platform to more consumers. Through greater data integration, co-branding and further investments to improve the customer experience with our platform, we believe that we can create significant value for each of our partners and further expand our partner relationships. Acquire Capabilities that Leverage our Consumer Engagement Platform We intend to pursue strategic relationships or acquisitions that expand our platform, provide additional capabilities or enable us to access adjacent markets within the broader health insurance and related customer facing segments of the healthcare industry. We acquired GoMedigap in January 2018 to help us expand our presence and engagement capabilities in the Medicare Supplement market. Our Platforms and Technology Our ecommerce platforms and consumer engagement solutions are built to provide market leading information, decision support and transactional services to health insurance customers across the country. Our ecommerce platforms organize and present voluminous and complex health insurance information in an objective format that empowers individuals, families and small businesses to research, analyze, compare and purchase a wide variety of health insurance plans. 7 Elements of our platforms include: Plan Comparisons and Recommendations . We offer online comparison and recommendation tools that process and simplify voluminous health insurance information according to each customer's specific insurance need. Our ecommerce platform enables consumers to compare and personalize health insurance options based on plan characteristics such as price, plan type, coverage limits, deductible amount, co-payment amount, and in-network and out-of-network benefits. After entering relevant information on our website, our platforms allow consumers to instantly receive a list of applicable health insurance plans and rate and benefit information in an easy-to-understand format. Online Application and Enrollment Forms . Health insurance applications vary widely by carrier and state. Our proprietary application tool allows us to capture each insurance applications unique business rules and build a corresponding online application in a XML format. Our online application process offers our consumers significant improvements over the traditional, paper-intensive application process. It employs dynamic business logic to help individuals and families complete the application and enrollment forms correctly in real-time. This reduces delay resulting from application rework, a significant problem with traditional health insurance distribution, where incomplete applications are mailed back and forth between the consumer, the traditional agent and the carrier. We further simplify the enrollment process by accepting electronic signature and electronic payment from our consumers. Customer and Carrier Data Interchange. Our digital data interface technology integrates our online application process with health insurance carriers technology systems, enabling us to electronically deliver our consumers applications to health insurance carriers. This expedites the loading of insurance product inventory in to our various shopping experiences and accelerates the application process by eliminating manual delivery. We also receive alerts and data from carriers, such as notification of approval or a request from a carrier for a consumers medical records for underwriting purposes, which we then relay electronically to the consumer. These features of our service help prevent applications from becoming delayed or rejected through inactivity of the consumer or the carrier. Call Center Technology Systems. Our proprietary agent-assist management systems enable us to provide a full range of customer service tasks in an efficient and personalized manner while complying with Medicare and health insurance regulatory requirements. Call center agents have script-on-screen tools that align to health insurance needs and leverage a common back office platform that powers our direct-to-consumer shopping experience. Data science driven algorithms are used to route and match call center agents with the right training and experience to certain customers. These systems also have customer relationship management tools that can track each consumer throughout the application process, obtain real-time updates from the carrier, generate automated emails specific to each consumer and access a cross-sell engine and dashboard to identify and track cross-sell opportunities. Our auto-email system is feature-rich with HTML capability, customizable merge tags, granular segmentation and tracking capability. Customer Data Platform. We have developed proprietary recommendation algorithms that are carrier agnostic and are designed based on the several million customer assistance encounters we have facilitated. Carrier Relationships We have developed strategic relationships with leading health insurance carriers in the United States, enabling us to offer thousands of health insurance plans online. We have relationships with a large number of Medicare-related, individual and family, small business and ancillary health insurance plan carriers, including large national carriers and well-established regional carriers. Many of these major carriers have been selling their products through us for over ten years. In many cases, we have back-office integration with major carriers allowing us to submit customer applications efficiently and cost-effectively, which is an area of competitive differentiation for our business. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. Health insurance carriers often have the ability to terminate or amend our agreements unilaterally on short notice, including provisions in our agreements relating to our commission rates. Revenue derived from Humana represented approximately 26% , 22% and 20% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Revenue derived from carriers owned by UnitedHealthcare represented approximately 19% , 19% and 23% of our total revenue in 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , respectively. Revenue derived from carriers 8 owned by Aetna represented approximately 17% , 14% and 10% of our total revenue in each of the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Marketing We focus on building brand awareness, increasing individual, family and small business customer visits to our websites, increasing Medicare customer visits to our websites and telephonic sales centers and converting these visitors into members. Our marketing initiatives are varied and numerous. They include: Direct Marketing . Our direct member acquisition channel consists of consumers who call our call centers directly or access our website addresses ( www.eHealth.com, www.eHealthInsurance.com, www.Medicare.com, www.eHealthMedicare.com, www.PlanPrescriber.com and www.GoMedigap.com ) either directly or through algorithmic search listings on Internet search engines and directories. Our direct marketing programs include direct mail, email marketing, search engine optimization, and television, radio and print advertising. Online Advertising. Our online advertising member acquisition channel consists of consumers who access our website or call centers through paid keyword search advertising from search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!, paid social platforms like Facebook, as well as various Internet marketing programs such as display advertising and retargeting campaigns. Our online advertising programs are delivered across all Internet-enabled devices, including desktop computers, tablet computers and smart phones. Marketing Partners . Our marketing partner member acquisition channel consists of consumers who access our website and call centers through a network comprised of hundreds of partners that drive consumers to our ecommerce platform and call centers. These partners include health care industry participants, such as pharmacies, hospital networks and insurance carriers; financial and online services partners in industries such as banking, insurance and mortgage; affiliate organizations; online advertisers and content providers that are specialists in paid and unpaid (algorithmic) search, as well as specialists in other types of Internet marketing; and off-line lead generators who specialize in traditional direct marketing channels, such as direct mail and television advertising. Technology and Content We have a technology and content team that is responsible for ongoing enhancements to the features and functionality of our ecommerce platform, which we believe are critical to maintaining our technology leadership position in the industry. A large number of our technology and content employees are located in our subsidiary in Xiamen, China. There are many risks associated with having an operation and doing business in China. Information regarding risks involving our operations in China is included in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Government Regulation and Compliance We distribute health insurance plans in all 50 states and in the District of Columbia. The health insurance industry is heavily regulated. Each of these jurisdictions has its own rules and regulations relating to the offer and sale of health insurance plans, typically administered by a department of insurance. State insurance departments have administrative powers relating to, among other things: regulating premium prices; granting and revoking licenses to transact insurance business; approving individuals and entities to which, and circumstances under which, commissions can be paid; regulating advertising, marketing and trade practices; monitoring broker and agent conduct; and imposing continuing education requirements. We are required to maintain valid life and/or health agency and/or agent licenses in each jurisdiction in which we transact health insurance business. In addition to state regulations, we also are subject to federal laws, regulations and guidelines issued by CMS that place a number of requirements on health insurance carriers and agents and brokers in connection with the marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. We are subject to similar requirements of state insurance departments with respect to our marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans. Medicare plans are not generally able to be purchased outside of an annual enrollment period that occurs in the fourth quarter of the year, subject to exception for 9 individuals aging into Medicare eligibility and for individuals who qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events. CMS and state insurance department regulations and guidelines include a number of prohibitions regarding the ability to contact Medicare-eligible individuals and place many restrictions on the marketing of Medicare-related plans. For example, our health insurance carrier partners are required to file with CMS and state departments of insurance certain of our websites, our call center scripts and other marketing materials we use to market Medicare-related plans. In some instances, CMS or state departments of insurance must approve the material before we use it. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare-related plans are ambiguous, complex and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. In March 2010, the Affordable Care Act and related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into law. The Affordable Care Act has primarily impacted our business of selling individual, family, and small business insurance plans. Among several other provisions, these laws and the regulations implementing them included a mandate requiring individuals to maintain health insurance or face tax penalties, which was repealed effective in 2019; a mandate that certain employers offer and contribute to their employees group health insurance coverage or face tax penalties if they do not do so; prohibitions against insurance companies using pre-existing health conditions as a reason to deny an application for health insurance; requirements for minimum individual and small business health insurance benefit levels, including prohibitions on lifetime coverage limits and limitations on annual coverage limits; medical loss ratio requirements that require each health insurance carrier to spend a certain percentage of their premium revenue on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality; establishment of state and/or federal health insurance exchanges to facilitate access to, and the purchase of, health insurance; Medicaid expansion so that a greater number of individuals will be insured under Medicaid programs; and subsidies and cost-sharing credits to make health insurance more affordable for those below certain income levels. The Affordable Care Act also established annual open enrollment periods for the purchase of individual and family health insurance. Individuals and families generally are not able to purchase individual and family health insurance outside of the annual enrollment periods, unless they qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events, such as losing employer-sponsored health insurance or moving to another state. Moreover, in order to be eligible for a subsidy, qualified individuals must purchase subsidy-qualifying health plans, known as qualified health plans, through a government-run health insurance exchange during the open enrollment period or a special enrollment period. While they are not required to do so, government-run exchanges are permitted to allow agents and brokers to enroll individuals and families into qualified health plans through them. The Federally Facilitated Marketplace, or FFM, run by CMS operated some part of the health insurance exchange in 38 states during the last health care open enrollment period. Our enrollment of individuals and families into qualified health plans to date has generally occurred through the FFM. We are subject to various federal and state privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements. These laws govern our collection, use, disclosure, protection and maintenance of the individually-identifiable information that we collect from consumers. For example, we are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA and regulations adopted pursuant to HIPPA require us to maintain the privacy of individually-identifiable health information that we collect on behalf of health insurance carriers, implement measures to safeguard such information and provide notification in the event of a breach in the privacy or confidentiality of such information. In addition, we have entered into contracts with health insurance carriers and others regarding the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure or disposal of sensitive personal information. The use and disclosure of certain data that we collect from consumers is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLBA, and state statutes implementing GLBA, which generally require brokers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to opt out of certain disclosures before sharing such information with a third party, and which generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. We regularly assess our compliance with privacy and security requirements. These requirements are evolving, and states are beginning to adopt additional requirements, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, which went into effect January 1, 2020, which establishes, among other things, new privacy rights for California residents such as the right to know what personal information has been collected about them, how we use and disclose this information and the right to request deletion of that information. In addition to government action, health insurance carrier expectations relating to privacy and security protections are increasing and evolving. We have incurred significant costs to develop new processes and procedures and to adopt new technology in an effort to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations and carrier expectations and to protect against cyber security risks and security breaches. We expect to continue to do so in the future. Violations of federal and state privacy and security laws and other contractual 10 requirements may result in significant liability and expense, damage to our reputation or termination of relationship with government-run health insurance exchanges and our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers . Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also have filed patent applications that relate to certain of our technology and business processes. Competition The market for selling health insurance plans is highly competitive. Our competitors include government entities, including government-run health insurance exchanges established as a result of health care reform; health insurance carriers; other health insurance agents and brokers; and companies that use the Internet and other means to attract individuals interested in purchasing health insurance and generate revenue by referring these individuals to us or one of our competitors. Government. In connection with our marketing of Medicare related health insurance plans, we compete with the federal governments original Medicare program. CMS also offers Medicare plan online enrollment, information and comparison tools and has established call centers for the sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. CMS has regulatory authority over the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug program and can influence the competitiveness of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans compared to the original Medicare program, as well as the compensation that health insurance carriers are allowed to pay us. Insurance carriers. Many health insurance carriers directly market and sell their plans to consumers through call centers and their own websites. Although we offer health insurance plans for many of these carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans directly to consumers and, to a much lesser extent, to small businesses. Health insurance carriers have become more experienced in marketing their products directly to consumers, both over the Internet and through more traditional channels, which has resulted in increased competition. Other agents and brokers. We compete with agents and brokers who offer and sell health insurance plans utilizing traditional offline distribution channels as well as the Internet. Our current competitors include the tens of thousands of local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities. A number of these agents operate websites and provide an online shopping experience for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance. In addition, a number of online health insurance agents like us generate demand over the Internet and sell health insurance to individuals over the Internet and using call centers. Internet marketers and other advertisers. There are many internet marketing companies and other advertisers that use the Internet and other means to find consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and are compensated for referring those consumers to agents and health insurance carriers. We compete with these companies for individuals who are looking to purchase health insurance. Seasonality The majority of our commission revenue is recognized in the fourth quarter of each calendar year under Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) , which we adopted using the full retrospective transition method on January 1, 2018. We have historically sold a significant portion of Medicare plans for the year in the fourth quarter during the Medicare annual enrollment period, when Medicare-eligible individuals are permitted to change their Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage for the following year. During 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , 63% , 61%, and 52%, respectively, of our Medicare plan-related applications were submitted during the fourth quarter. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our commission revenues related to new Medicare plan-related enrollments in the fourth quarter. 11 Beginning January 1, 2019, CMS revived the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period during which Medicare Advantage plan enrollees may enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan or disenroll from their Medicare Advantage plan and return to original Medicare. The Medicare Advantage open enrollment period is scheduled to occur between January 1 and March 31 of each year. As a result, we expect to generate higher commission revenue in the first quarter compared to the second and third quarters. The annual open enrollment period for individual and family health insurance also takes place in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, resulting in seasonality of individual and family plan submitted applications volume. During 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , 57% , 64%, and 52%, respectively, of our individual and family plan-related applications were submitted during the fourth quarter. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our commission revenues related to individual and family plan-related enrollments in the fourth quarter. Our marketing and advertising expenses are typically lower in each of our first through third quarters compared to the fourth quarter. We incur a significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses in the fourth quarter as a result of the Medicare annual enrollment period and the open enrollment period under the Affordable Care Act. Our marketing and advertising increases in the fourth quarter as a result of increased amounts owed to our marketing partners in connection with lead referral arrangements as well as an increase in the number of health insurance applications submitted on our ecommerce platforms referred to us by our marketing partners. We also typically incur an increase in other marketing and advertising related expenses in the fourth quarter. We expect this seasonal trend in marketing and advertising expenses to continue in 2020. In preparation for the Medicare annual enrollment period during 2019 , 2018 , and 2017 , and to a lesser extent the open enrollment period for individual and family health insurance plans during the same periods, we began increasing our customer care center staff during the third and fourth quarters to handle the anticipated increased volume of health insurance transactions, which resulted in higher customer care and enrollment expenses in the third and fourth quarters. We expect this seasonal trend in customer care and enrollment expenses to continue in 2020 . Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had approximately 1,500 full-time employees, of which 860 were in customer care and enrollment, 370 were in technology and content, 210 were in general and administrative, and 60 were in marketing and advertising. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. As required under Chinese law, the employees in our Xiamen, China office established a labor union in January 2014. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be good. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business as they may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Risks Related to Our Business The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous, complex and frequently changing laws and regulations, and non-compliance with or changes in laws and regulations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous laws, regulations and guidelines at the federal and state level. The marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are principally regulated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS. The marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans 12 are principally regulated on a state-by-state basis by state departments of insurance. The laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans are numerous, ambiguous and complex, and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. The telephone calls on which we enroll individuals into Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are required to be recorded. Health insurance carriers audit these recordings for compliance and listen to them in connection with their investigation of complaints. In addition, Medicare eligible individuals may receive a special election period and the ability to change Medicare Advantage and Part D prescription drug plans outside the Medicare annual enrollment period in the event the sale of the plan was not in accordance with CMS rules and guidelines. Given CMSs scrutiny of Medicare product health insurance carriers and the responsibility of the health insurance carriers for actions that we take, health insurance carriers may terminate our relationship with them or take other corrective action if our Medicare product sales, marketing and operations are not in compliance or give rise to too many complaints. The termination of or change in our relationship with health insurance carriers for this reason would reduce the products we are able to offer, could result in the loss of commissions for past and future sales and would otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of the laws, regulations and guidelines relating to the sale of Medicare plans, we have altered, and likely will have to continue to alter, our websites and sales process to comply with these laws, regulations and guidelines. For instance, many aspects of our online platforms and our marketing material and processes, as well as changes to these platforms, materials and processes, including call center scripts, must be filed on a regular basis with CMS and reviewed and approved by health insurance carriers in light of CMS requirements. In addition, certain aspects of our Medicare plan marketing partner relationships have been in the past, and will be in the future, subjected to CMS and health insurance carrier review. CMS, state departments of insurance or health insurance carriers may determine to object to or not to approve aspects of our online platforms, sales function or marketing material and processes and may determine that certain existing aspects of our Medicare-related business are not in compliance. Changes to the laws, regulations and guidelines relating to the sale of Medicare plans, their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could impact the manner in which we conduct our Medicare business, our platforms or our sale of Medicare plans, or we could be prevented from operating aspects of our Medicare revenue generating activities altogether, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If our ability to enroll individuals during enrollment periods is impeded, our business will be harmed. It is difficult for the health insurance agents we employ and our systems and processes to handle the increased volume of health insurance transactions that occur in a short period of time during the Medicare annual enrollment period. We contract with outsourced call centers and hire additional employees on a temporary or seasonal basis in a limited period of time to address the expected increase in the volume of health insurance transactions during this period. We must ensure that our employee health insurance agents and the health insurance agent employees of outsourced call centers are timely licensed, trained and certified and have the appropriate authority to sell health insurance in a number of states and for a number of different health insurance carriers. We depend upon our own employees, state departments of insurance, government exchanges and health insurance carriers for licensing, certification and appointment. If our ability to market and sell Medicare-related health insurance and individual and family health insurance is constrained during an enrollment period for any reason, such as technology failures, reduced allocation of resources, any inability to timely employ, license, train, certify and retain our employees and our contractors and their health insurance agents to sell health insurance or interruptions in the operation of our website or systems, we could acquire fewer members, suffer a reduction in our membership and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If investments we make in enrollment periods do not result in the returns we expected when making those investments, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In an attempt to attract and enroll a large number of individuals during the Medicare annual enrollment period and the health care reform open enrollment period under the Affordable Care Act, we may invest in areas of our business, including technology and content, customer care and enrollment, and marketing and advertising. We have in the past made investments in areas of our business in advance of enrollment periods that have not yielded the results we expected when making those investments. Any investment we make in any enrollment period may not result in a significant number of approved and paying members or may not be as cost-efficient as we anticipated. If it does not, or is not, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 13 If we do not successfully compete with government-run health insurance exchanges, our business may be harmed. We compete with government-run health insurance exchanges, among others, with respect to our sale of Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance. The federal government operates a website where Medicare beneficiaries can purchase Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans or be referred to carriers to purchase Medicare Supplement plans. CMS has made improvements to the consumer experience on this website and proposals exist for it to continue to do so. Medicare beneficiaries can also obtain plan selection assistance from the federal government in connection with their purchase of a Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D prescription drug plan. The exchanges in the individual and family health insurance market created by the Affordable Care Act may elect whether or not we are able to enroll subsidy-eligible individuals in qualified health plans through them, and determine the manner in which we may do so. The Affordable Care Act exchanges have websites where individuals and small businesses can purchase health insurance, and they also have offline customer support and enrollment capabilities. Individuals who are eligible for government subsidies in the form of premium tax credits and cost sharing reductions must apply for their subsidy and purchase qualified health plans through a government exchange. In the aggregate, government exchanges have greater resources and greater public outreach capability than we do and they or the government agencies that run them may in the future impact the process we use to enroll individuals and families in a manner that results in a reduction in revenue and our membership. In addition, individuals who utilize our platform and services to apply for subsidies and health insurance through Affordable Care Act exchanges receive marketing and communications from the exchanges after they do so. In the event our existing members purchase health insurance directly through health insurance exchanges without using us as their health insurance agent, as a result of their being eligible for a subsidy or otherwise, we may no longer receive commission payments as a result of our sale of health insurance to them. Competitive pressure from government-run health insurance exchanges has resulted, and may in the future result, in our experiencing increased marketing costs, decreased traffic to our website, a reduction in our membership and revenue and may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operating results will be impacted by factors that impact our estimate of the constrained lifetime value (LTV) of commissions per approved member. Effective January 1, 2018, we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) using the full retrospective method, which required us to revise our historical financial information by applying the new standard. The adoption had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. The most significant impact of the standard was on our commission revenue. Since the adoption of ASC 606, we recognize revenue at the time of plan approval by applying the latest estimated constrained LTV for that product. We estimate commission revenue for each product by using a portfolio approach to a group of approved members by plan type and the effective month of the relevant plan, which we refer to as cohorts. We estimate the cash commissions we expect to collect for each approved member cohort by evaluating various factors, including but not limited to, commission rates, carrier mix, estimated average plan duration, the regulatory environment, and cancellations of insurance plans offered by health insurance carriers with which we have a relationship. On a quarterly basis, we recompute LTV at a cohort level for all outstanding cohorts, review and monitor changes in the data used to estimate LTV as well as the cash received for each cohort as compared to our original estimates. The fluctuations of cash received for each cohort and LTV can be significant and may or may not be indicative of the need to adjust LTVs for prior period cohorts. Management analyzes these fluctuations and, to the extent we see changes in our estimates of the cash commission collections that we believe are indicative of an increase or decrease to prior period LTVs, we will adjust LTV for the affected cohorts at the time such determination is made. Changes in LTV may result in an increase or a decrease to revenue and a corresponding increase or decrease to commissions receivable, accordingly. We refer the net commission revenue from members approved in prior periods as adjustment revenue and our revenue can fluctuate significantly from period to period as a result of adjustment revenue. Adjustment revenue can have a significant favorable or unfavorable impact on our revenue. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we incorporated statistical tools to increase the accuracy of LTV estimates with an emphasis on improving member retention forecasting. As a result, we recognized adjustment revenue of $50.8 million for Medicare Advantage plans during the fourth quarter of 2019, which increased our adjustment revenue for all Medicare products to $55.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. As we continue to evaluate our LTV estimation models, we may in the future make further changes based on a number of factors and such changes could result in significant increases or decreases in our revenue. Constrained LTVs are estimates and are based on a number of assumptions, which include, but are not limited to, estimates of the conversion rates of approved members into paying members, forecasted average plan duration and forecasted commission rates we expect to receive per 14 approved member's plan. These assumptions are based on historical trends and require significant judgment by our management in interpreting those trends and in applying the constraints. Changes in our historical trends will result in changes to our constrained LTV estimates in future periods and therefore could adversely affect our revenue and financial results in those future periods. As a result, negative changes in the factors upon which we estimate constrained LTVs, such as reduced conversion of approved members to paying members, increased health insurance plan termination or a reduction in the lifetime commission amounts we expect to receive for selling the plan to a member or other changes could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we ultimately receive commission payments that are less than the amount we estimated when we recognized commission revenue, we would need to write off the remaining commission receivable balance, which would adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. The rate at which approved members become paying members is a significant factor in our estimation of constrained LTVs. For example, during the first open enrollment period under the Affordable Care Act, we experienced a decline in the rate at which members approved for individual and family health insurance turned into paying members, which harmed our operating results. To the extent we experience a similar decline in the rate at which approved members turn into our paying members, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be harmed. The forecasted average plan duration is another important factor in our estimation of constrained LTV. We receive commissions from health insurance carriers for health insurance plans sold through us. When one of these plans is canceled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy, we no longer receive the related commission payment. Our forecasted average plan duration and health insurance plan termination rate are calculated based on our historical data by plan type. As a result, our inability to produce accurate forecasted average plan duration may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Commission rates are also part of the significant factors in our estimation of constrained LTVs. The commission rates we receive are impacted by a variety of factors, including the particular health insurance plans chosen by our members, the carriers offering those plans, our members states of residence, the laws and regulations in those jurisdictions, the average premiums of plans purchased through us and health care reform. Our commission revenue per member has in the past decreased, and could in the future decrease, as a result of reductions in contractual commission rates, a change in the mix of carriers whose products we sell during a given period, and increased health insurance plan termination rates, all of which are beyond our control and may occur on short notice. To the extent these and other factors cause our commission revenue per member to decline, our revenue may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Given that Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance purchasing is concentrated during enrollment periods, we may experience a shift in the mix of Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance products selected by our members over a short period of time. Any reduction in our average commission revenue per member during the enrollment periods caused by such a shift or otherwise would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationship with health insurance carriers or our relationship with health insurance carriers is modified. We typically enter into contractual relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In many cases, health insurance carriers also may amend the terms of our agreements unilaterally on short notice. Carriers may be unwilling to allow us to sell their existing or new health insurance plans, or desire to amend our agreements with them for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons, dissatisfaction with the economics of the members that we place with them or because they do not want to be associated with our brand. We may also terminate our relationship with health insurance carriers. In the event we are not successful in gaining or maintaining the ability to sell Medicare, individual and family and ancillary health insurance plans, if health insurance carriers pay us no commissions or reduced commissions in connection with the sale of these plans or if health insurance carriers change our relationship with them in other ways, we could lose a substantial number of existing and potential members and commissions, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The termination of our relationship with a health insurance carrier by us or the health insurance carrier or the amendment of or change in our relationship with a carrier could reduce the variety, quality and affordability of health insurance plans we offer, cause a loss of commission payments, cause a reduction in constrained LTVs and adversely impact our ability to recognize revenue or have other adverse impacts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. It also could adversely impact, or cause the termination of, commissions for past and future sales, which would materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could also be harmed if in the future we fail to develop new carrier relationships and are unable to offer consumers a variety of health insurance plans in each jurisdiction. 15 Health insurance carriers can unilaterally amend the commission rates that they pay to us. For example, given the significant losses that carriers sustained in connection with their sale of individual and family health insurance as a result of health care reform, many health insurance carriers with which we have a relationship, including large national health insurance carriers, reduced or eliminated our commissions for selling individual and family health insurance, and in a limited number of cases, our renewal commissions. As a result, we experienced a meaningful reduction in our average commission rates for our aggregate individual and family health insurance plan membership. In addition, the reduction in contractual commission rates and these carriers desire to not sell individual and family health insurance reduced the number of plans that we are able to offer on our websites, which resulted in less consumer demand for the individual and family health insurance that we sell and a reduction in our membership. In the future and as a result of health care reform or for other reasons, an increasing number of health insurance carriers may decide to reduce our commissions, rely on their own internal distribution channels to sell their own plans, determine not to sell their plans or otherwise limit or prohibit us from selling their plans. In addition to reducing commission rates, health insurance carriers may determine to exit certain states or increase premiums to a significant degree, which could cause our members health insurance to be terminated or our members to purchase new health insurance or determine not to pay for health insurance at all. If we lose these members, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our Medicare plan-related revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers. The success of our Medicare-related health insurance business depends upon our ability to enter into new and maintain existing relationships with health insurance carriers on favorable economic terms. The concentration of our Medicare plan sales in a limited number of health insurance carriers makes us vulnerable to changes in carrier commission rates and changes in the competitiveness of our carriers Medicare products. If our Medicare carriers reduce our commission rates, reduce the amount they pay us for advertising services, or the competitiveness of their products declines compared to original Medicare or the products of Medicare carriers with which we do not have a relationship, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We also may temporarily or permanently lose the ability to market and sell Medicare plans for our Medicare plan carriers. The regulations applicable to the business of selling health insurance are complex and frequently change. We or the health insurance agents we employ have in the past, and may in the future, violate one or more of the many requirements imposed by CMS or state laws and regulations. A carrier may terminate our relationship for that or other reasons, or CMS may penalize health insurance carriers for certain regulatory violations by suspending or terminating the carrier's ability to market and sell Medicare plans for significant periods of time. CMS also may require the carrier to terminate its membership and allow its members to move to other plans. Given the concentration of our Medicare plan sales in a small number of carriers, if we lose a relationship with a health insurance carrier to market their Medicare plans temporarily or permanently or if the health insurance carrier loses its Medicare product membership, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The agreements that we have with health insurance carriers to sell Medicare plans may be unilaterally amended or terminated by the carrier on short notice and the amendment or termination could adversely impact, or cause the termination of, the commission payments that we receive for selling their Medicare plans, including commissions on plans that we have already sold, which could materially harm our business operating results and financial condition. Changes in our management and key employees could affect our business and financial results. Our success is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our business would be harmed. Our executive officers and employees can terminate their employment at any time. The transition and the departure of members of our senior management could result in attrition in our senior management and key personnel and any significant change in leadership over a short period of time could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. For example, we appoint a single designated writing agent with each insurance carrier. A small number of our employees act as writing agent and each employee that acts as writing agent does so for a number of carriers. Robert Hurley, who recently resigned as an executive officer and will remain a part-time employee for a transitionary period of an undetermined amount of time, is the writing agent on a large number of our carrier relationships. During Mr. Hurleys transitionary period, we need to replace Mr. Hurley as writing agent with another employee who has health insurance licenses. Due to our national reach and the large number of carriers whose plans are purchased by our members, this transition may be difficult and could require a significant period of time to complete. If the transition is not successful or takes too long to complete, our agency relationship with particular 16 insurance carriers may be terminated, our commission payments could be discontinued or delayed and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our business may be harmed if we are not successful in executing on our strategic investments and initiatives. As part of our strategy, we have determined to invest in initiatives to accelerate growth in our Medicare product sales, including Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement plans. Pursuing and investing in these and other initiatives we develop will require significant investments in marketing and advertising, technology and product offerings, and customer care and enrollment, among others, and involves risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, including the initiatives resulting in insufficient revenue to offset any expenses associated with these new investments, inadequate return of capital on our investments, legal and regulatory compliance risks, potential changes in laws and regulations and other issues that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Our pursuit of these strategic initiatives may not be successful. Our cash flow from operations was negative in each of the years ended December 31, 2019, 2018 and 2017. As a result, our investment in these initiatives could result in our needing to raise additional capital. If we are not successful in executing on our business strategy, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Significant consolidation in the health insurance industry could alter our relationships with carriers and harm our business and financial results. The health insurance industry in the United States has experienced a substantial amount of consolidation, resulting in a decrease in the number of health insurance carriers. Consolidation in the health insurance industry could cause a loss of or changes in our relationship with carriers and reduction in our commission or other revenue, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the future, we may be forced to offer health insurance from a reduced number of insurance carriers or to derive a greater portion of our revenue from a more concentrated number of carriers as our business and the health insurance industry evolve. Revenue derived from Humana represented approximately 26% , 22% and 20% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Revenue derived from carriers owned by UnitedHealthcare represented approximately 19% , 19% and 23% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. Revenue derived from Aetna represented approximately 17% , 14% and 10% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2019 , 2018 and 2017 , respectively. We have several agreements that govern our sale of health insurance plans with these health insurance carriers. They may be unilaterally amended or terminated by the carrier on short notice and the amendment or termination could adversely impact or cause the termination of the commission payments that we receive from these health insurance carriers, including commissions on plans that we have already sold, which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenue could be adversely impacted if we are unable to maintain currently-existing levels of business with any of our significant health insurance carriers if we are unable to offset any loss of business with alternative health insurance carriers. We expect that a small number of health insurance carriers will account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future and any impairment of our relationship with, or the material financial impairment of, these health insurance carriers could adversely affect our business. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. Open enrollment periods drive the seasonality of our business. The Medicare annual enrollment period occurs from October 15 to December 7 each year and the individual and family health insurance open enrollment period typically runs from November 1 through December 15 each year. In addition, the Medicare open enrollment period, where Medicare-eligible individuals who enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan can switch to the original Medicare program or switch to a different Medicare Advantage plan, runs from January 1 st through March 31 st of each year. We experience an increase in the number of submitted Medicare-related applications and approved members during the fourth quarter and, to a lesser extent, in the first quarter, and an increase in Medicare plan related expense during the third and fourth quarters in connection with the open enrollment periods. Our commission revenue is the highest in our fourth quarter and second-highest in our first quarter given the increase in submitted applications and approved members in those periods compared to the rest of the year. We have typically experienced increased customer care and enrollment experience in the third and fourth quarters as we increase the number of agents to assist consumers in the enrollment periods. A significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses is driven by the number of health insurance applications submitted through us. Since our marketing and advertising costs are expensed and generally paid as incurred and commissions from approved members are paid to us over time, our operating cash flows could be adversely impacted by a substantial increase in marketing expense as a result of a higher volume of applications 17 submitted during a quarter or positively impacted by a substantial decline in marketing expense as a result of lower volume of applications submitted during a quarter. The seasonality of our business could change in the future due to other factors, including as a result of changes in timing of the Medicare or individual and family health plan enrollment periods and changes in the laws and regulations that govern the sale of health insurance. We may not be able to timely adjust to changes in the seasonality of our business. If the timing of the enrollment periods for Medicare-related health insurance or individual and family health insurance changes, we may not be able to timely adapt to changes in customer demand. If we are not successful in responding to changes in the seasonality of our business, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our financial results will be adversely impacted if our membership does not grow or if we are unable to retain our existing members. We receive commissions from health insurance carriers for health insurance plans sold through us. When one of these plans is canceled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the plan, we no longer receive the related commission payment. Our members may choose to discontinue their health insurance plans for a variety of reasons. Consumers may also purchase individual and family and Medicare-related health insurance plans directly from other sources, such as government-run health insurance exchanges, and we would not remain the agent on the policy and receive the related commission. Medicare Advantage plan enrollees may enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan or disenroll from their Medicare Advantage plan and return to original Medicare during the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period that is scheduled to occur between January 1 st and March 31 st of each year. If the new members that we enroll during this Medicare Advantage open enrollment period do not offset any loss of existing Medicare Advantage members or if investments we make during this new Medicare Advantage open enrollment period do not result in a significant number of approved and paying Medicare Advantage members, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, the open enrollment period could cause us to experience an increased Medicare Advantage plan termination rate, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Health insurance carriers have in the past and may in the future terminate health insurance plans purchased and held by our members. Any decrease in the amount of time we retain our members on the health insurance plans that they purchased through us could adversely impact the estimated constrained LTV we use for purposes of recognizing revenue, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, if we are not able to successfully retain existing members and limit health insurance plan termination, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, the Medicare-related commission rates that we receive may be higher in the first calendar year of a plan if the plan is the first Medicare-related plan issued to the member. The individual and family commission rates that we receive are typically higher in the first twelve months of a policy. After the first twelve months, they generally decline significantly. As a result, if we do not add a sufficient number of members to new plans, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we experience higher health insurance plan termination rate than we estimated when we recognized commission revenue, we may not collect all of the related commission receivable, which could result in a write-off of commissions receivable, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be harmed if our websites, marketing materials or call center scripts are not timely approved or do not comply with legal requirements. Health insurance carriers whose Medicare plans we sell approve our websites, much of our marketing material and our call center scripts. We must receive these approvals in order for us to be able to generate Medicare plan demand and sell Medicare plans to Medicare-eligible individuals as a health insurance agent. Many of these materials also must be filed with CMS. In the event that CMS or a health insurance carrier requires change to, disapproves, or delays approval of our websites, our marketing material or call center scripts, we could lose a significant source of Medicare plan demand and our ability to sell Medicare plans would be adversely impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The rules and regulations relating to the approval and submission of marketing material are ambiguous and complex and state department of insurance or CMS may determine that certain aspects of our marketing material and processes are not in compliance with legal requirements. The CMS rules and regulations also apply to marketing material of our marketing partners. If we are not successful in timely submitting these marketing materials to health insurance carriers for approval, in gaining that approval and in filing all required marketing material with CMS, we could be prevented from implementing our Medicare marketing initiatives and our Medicare plan marketing could become less effective, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if the delay or non-compliance occurred during the Medicare annual or open 18 enrollment periods. If a marketing partner of ours does not consent to having its website or other marketing material filed with CMS, does not make changes required by carriers or CMS or does not comply with the CMS marketing guidelines or other Medicare program related laws, rules and regulations, we may lose the ability to receive referrals of individuals interested in purchasing Medicare plans from that marketing partner or our ability to receive referrals could be delayed and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we or our marketing partners substantively change our websites or call center scripts after they are filed with CMS, we may need to resubmit them to health insurance carriers and have them re-filed with CMS. We are not permitted to make CMS filings ourselves. Given the review cycles our scripts, websites and other marketing material undergo, it is very difficult and time consuming to make changes to them, and our inability to timely make changes to these marketing materials, whether to comply with new rules and regulations or otherwise, could adversely impact our ability to sell Medicare plans, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if a change to scripts, our websites or other marketing material is required by CMS, a state department of insurance or health insurance carriers, we may be prevented from using the marketing material until the change is made and approved, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if it occurred during the annual enrollment period. We have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from CMS or state departments of insurance regarding our marketing and business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. We typically respond to these inquiries by explaining how we believe we are in compliance with relevant regulations, or may modify our practices in connection with the inquiry. CMS and certain state regulators notified us in advance of and during the 2018 Medicare annual enrollment period for 2019 enrollment of their opinion that certain marketing material that we were using relating to one of our websites was misleading and did not follow certain legal and regulatory requirements. While we have resolved the matter with the relevant regulators, we may be subject to additional inquiries and proceedings in the future related to these or other materials. Inquiries and proceedings initiated by the government could adversely impact our health insurance licenses, require us to pay fines, require us to modify marketing and business practices, result in litigation and otherwise harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans as a health insurance agent depends upon our ability to timely hire, train and retain licensed health insurance agents for our customer care center. In addition to our websites, we rely upon our customer care centers and, during the Medicare annual enrollment period, outsourced call centers to sell Medicare plans. The success of our customer care center operations is largely dependent on licensed health insurance agents and other employees. In order to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans, our health insurance agent employees and employees of third-party call centers must be licensed by the states in which they are selling plans and certified and appointed with the health insurance carrier that offers the plans in each applicable state. Because a significant number of Medicare plans are sold in the fourth quarter each year during the Medicare annual enrollment period, we retain and train a significant number of additional employees and employees of third-party call centers in a limited period of time. We must also ensure that our health insurance agents are timely licensed in a significant number of states and certified and appointed with the health insurance carriers whose products we sell. We depend upon our employees, state departments of insurance and health insurance carriers for the licensing, certification and appointment of our health insurance agents. We may not be successful in timely hiring a sufficient number of additional licensed agents or other employees for the Medicare annual enrollment period. We also may not be successful in engaging outsourced call centers, and the outsourced call centers may not be successful in engaging a sufficient number of licensed health insurance agents. Even if we and our outsourced call centers are successful, these health insurance agents may experience delays in obtaining health insurance licenses and certifications and health insurance carrier appointments. New health insurance agents also may not perform to the standard we expect of them, which could result in lower than expected conversion rates and revenue and higher costs of acquisition per member. If we and our outsourced call centers are not successful in these regards, our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans will be impaired during the annual enrollment period, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans as a health insurance agent depends upon maintenance of functioning information technology systems. The success of our Medicare plan customer care center operations is dependent upon information technology systems. Many of our Medicare plan members utilize our customer care center in connection with their purchase of a Medicare plan. CMS rules require that our health insurance agent employees utilize CMS-approved scripts in connection with the sale of Medicare plans and that we record and maintain the recording of telephonic interactions relating to the sale of Medicare 19 plans. We rely on telephone, call recording, customer relationship management and other systems and technology in our Medicare customer care center operations, and we are dependent upon third parties for some of them, including our telephone and call recording systems. These systems have failed temporarily in the past. The effectiveness and stability of our Medicare customer care center systems and technology are critical to our ability to sell Medicare plans, particularly during the Medicare enrollment periods, and the failure or interruption of any of these systems and technology or any inability to handle increased volume would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success in selling Medicare-related health insurance will depend upon a number of factors some of which are outside of our control. Our success in selling Medicare-related health insurance is dependent in part on the actions of federal and state governments. The adoption of laws, regulations or policies by federal and state governments has in the past and could in the future adversely impact our Medicare business. For example, we access information from CMS in our customer care centers to increase the efficiency of our customer care agents in interacting with Medicare beneficiaries. CMS has limited access to that information, and we will have to get the information in a different way or develop different processes. CMS also has in the past determined to reduce the payments it makes to health insurance carriers in connection with the sale of Medicare Advantage plans. Any similar reduction in the future could cause the cost of Medicare Advantage plans to increase or the benefits under Medicare Advantage plans to decrease, either of which would impair our ability to sell Medicare Advantage plans. CMS also has in the past adopted rules relating to the timing and nature of the compensation of agents in connection with the sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. The effect of these rules was to reduce our compensation as a health insurance agent in connection with the sale of these plans or had other adverse consequences. In addition, under the Affordable Care Act, health insurance carriers are required to pay a fee or tax on net premium revenue for certain types of health insurance. The health insurance tax applies to Medicare Advantage, Part D prescription drug, individual and family, and small group health insurance plans. This health insurance tax was suspended by the federal government in 2017 and 2019, but it is effective in 2020 and is expected to be suspended again in 2021. As a result of the health insurance tax, consumers could experience higher premiums, higher out of pocket costs and/or reduced benefits as health insurance carriers may pass the cost of the health insurance tax to the consumers. In the event the actions of the federal government, state governments or other circumstances decrease the demand for the Medicare related health insurance that we sell, or result in a reduction in the amount paid to us or have other adverse impacts, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our success in the Medicare plan market as a health insurance agent depends upon a number of additional factors, including: our ability to continue to adapt our ecommerce platforms to market Medicare plans, including our development or acquisition of marketing tools and features important in the sale of Medicare plans online and the effective modification of our user experience; our success in marketing to Medicare-eligible individuals, including television advertising, online marketing and direct mail marketing, and in entering into and maintaining marketing partner relationships to drive Medicare-eligible individuals to our ecommerce platforms or customer care centers on a cost-effective basis; our ability to hire and retain additional employees with experience in Medicare, including our ability to timely implement Medicare sales expertise into our customer care centers; our ability to implement and maintain an effective information technology infrastructure for the sale of Medicare plans, including the infrastructure and systems that support our websites, call centers and call recording; our ability to leverage technology in order to sell, and otherwise become more efficient at selling, Medicare-related plans over the telephone; our ability to comply with the numerous, complex and changing laws and regulations and CMS guidelines and policies relating to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, including continuing to conform our online and offline sales processes to those laws and regulations; and the effectiveness with which our competitors market the availability of Medicare plans from sources other than our ecommerce platforms. As a result of these factors, we may prove unsuccessful in marketing Medicare plans and acting as a health insurance agent in connection with their sale, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if our efforts to market Medicare plans during enrollment periods were impeded due to lack of health insurance carrier or CMS approval, or for other reasons, the impact on our business, operating results and financial condition would be significantly 20 greater given the seasonality of our Medicare-related revenue, membership acquisition and expenses and the fact that much of the sales of Medicare plans occur during this period. We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against current and future competitors. The market for selling health insurance plans is highly competitive. We compete with entities and individuals that offer and sell health insurance plans utilizing traditional distribution channels as well as the Internet. Our competitors include local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities. There also are a number of companies that operate websites, provide an online shopping experience for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and act as a health insurance agent in connection with that purchase. Some local agents also use Internet advertising and lead aggregator services that use the Internet to find consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and are compensated for referring those consumers to health insurance agents or carriers. Many health insurance carriers also directly market and sell their plans to consumers through call centers, Internet advertising and their own websites. Although we offer health insurance plans for many of these carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans directly to consumers. In connection with our marketing of Medicare plans, we compete with the original Medicare program. CMS also offers plan information, comparison tools, call centers and online enrollment for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. CMS offers plan information and referral to health insurance carriers for Medicare Supplement plans. We compete with the Federally Facilitated Marketplace, or FFM, and state health insurance exchanges implemented as a result of health care reform in marketing individual and family health insurance products. Health care reform also has resulted in health insurance plan cost and benefit data being more readily accessible, which has facilitated additional competition. To remain competitive against our current and future competitors, we will need to market our services effectively and continue to improve the online shopping experience and functionalities of our website and other platforms that our current and future customers may access to purchase health insurance products from us. If we cannot predict, develop and deliver the right shopping experience and functionality in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we are not effective in cost-effectively driving a substantial number of consumers interested in purchasing health insurance to our website and customer care centers, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to: undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; devote more resources to website and systems development and other aspects of their operations to comply with applicable laws, regulations and rules; negotiate more favorable commission rates and commission override payments; and make more attractive offers to potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers. In addition, CMS has the ability to regulate our marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, and government-run health insurance exchanges, including CMS with respect to the FFM, have the ability to regulate our marketing and sale of qualified health plans under health care reform. CMS and the exchanges could impact the commissions we receive in connection with the sale of these plans and impose other restrictions and limitations that make it difficult for us to sell them. Competitive pressures may result in our experiencing increased marketing costs, decreased demand and loss of market share, or may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in the market for private health insurance, including passage and implementation of a law reflecting any current proposal to create a single payor health insurance program, could harm our business and operating results. Our business depends upon the private sector of the United States health insurance system, its relative role in financing health care delivery and health insurance carriers use of, and payment of commissions to, agents and brokers to market health insurance plans. The market for private health insurance in the United States is evolving and our future financial performance will depend in part on growth in this market. Changes and developments in the health insurance system in the United States could reduce demand for our services and harm our business. For example, there has been an ongoing national debate relating to the health care reimbursement system in the United States. Certain candidates for President of the United States as well as some members of Congress have introduced proposals to expand the Medicare program, ranging from proposals generally 21 known as Medicare-for-all that would create a new single payor national health insurance program for all United States residents, replacing virtually all other sources of public and private insurance, to more incremental approaches such as lowering the age of eligibility for the Medicare program or creating a new public health insurance plan option as a supplement to private sources of coverage. In the event that laws, regulations or rules that eliminate or reduce private sources of health insurance are adopted, the demand for our products could be adversely impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Changes and developments in the health insurance industry as a result of health care reform could harm our business. In March 2010, the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into law. These health care reform laws contain provisions that have and will continue to change the industry in which we operate in substantial ways. The implementation of health care reform has increased, and could further increase, our competition in the individual and family health insurance market and reduce or eliminate the need for health insurance agents or demand for the health insurance for individuals and families that we sell; further decrease the number of health insurance plans that we sell as well as the number of health insurance carriers offering them; cause a further reduction in our membership and revenue; cause us to incur increased expense across our business and cause health insurance carriers to further reduce our commissions and other amounts they pay for our services or change our relationship with them in other ways, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These and other impacts of health care reform caused a significant decline in our individual and family plan membership and other changes in the future could have a similar impact on our Medicare related health insurance business. In addition, various aspects of health care reform have caused and could continue to cause health insurance carriers to limit the type of health insurance plans we sell and the geographies in which we sell them, to reduce or eliminate the commissions we receive from them as a result of our sale of health insurance plans, to exit the business of selling individual and family and small business health insurance plans in particular jurisdictions or altogether, to eliminate certain categories of products or attempt to move members into new plans for which we receive lower or no commissions, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Under the Affordable Care Act, health insurance carriers offering coverage in the individual or small business health insurance market must ensure that such coverage meets certain actuarial value standards, includes certain minimum health benefits and is not subject to lifetime or, for most health insurance benefits, annual dollar amount coverage limits. Moreover, health insurance carriers cannot deny individuals health insurance for health reasons. For these and other reasons, the cost of individual and family health insurance has generally increased and many health insurance carriers suffered financial losses in their individual and family health insurance businesses. As a result, many health insurance carriers exited the individual and family health insurance business in part or altogether. The number of individual and family health insurance plans offered on our website has been reduced, including states and many zip codes where we have no individual and family health insurance plans to offer. If these conditions persist, we anticipate that demand for the individual and family health insurance that we sell will continue to decrease and this would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The Trump administration and Republican leadership in Congress have attempted on several occasions to repeal or amend the Affordable Care Act, but their efforts at doing so have largely failed. The Affordable Care Act contains a mandate requiring individuals to maintain health insurance plans that comply with the Affordable Care Act or face a tax penalty. As a part of the tax reform law that came into effect in December 2017, the tax penalty for violating the mandate was set at zero effective in 2019, essentially repealing it. The essential repeal of the individual mandate could cause individuals to determine not to purchase or maintain individual and family health insurance and could cause carriers to increase premiums, reduce commissions or exit the business of selling individual and family health insurance, any of which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition to eliminating the penalty for violating the individual mandate, the Trump administration issued an executive order in October 2017 that directed the executive branch of the government to consider proposing regulations and revising guidance to expand access to association health plans, expand the availability of short-term health insurance and increase the usability of health reimbursement arrangements. As a result of the executive order, new regulations were adopted in July and August 2018, respectively, that would facilitate association-based health insurance plans and promote the sale of more short-term health insurance. The regulations relating to short-term health insurance plans extend the initial duration of short-term health insurance from three months to less than one year and allow for short-term health insurance plans to be renewed as long as the total duration of the plan does not exceed thirty-six months. However, states have authority to impose their own 22 laws and regulations over short-term health insurance plans sold in their markets and certain states have adopted or are contemplating laws and regulations that would ban the sale of short-term health insurance, limit their duration and renewability, apply certain aspects of the Affordable Care Act to short-term health insurance or impose stronger disclosure requirements than the federal regulation. The expansion of the availability of short-term health insurance in many states may cause individuals and families to purchase short-term health insurance instead of individual and family health insurance, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition if any reduction in our sales of individual and family health insurance is not offset by increased revenue from sales of short-term health insurance. The regulations relating to association health plans allow small businesses, including sole proprietors and other self-employed individuals, to join industry or geographically-based associations and collectively purchase large group health insurance plans. Large group health insurance is not subject to many of the provisions of the Affordable Care Act, including the requirement that health insurance plans cover all of the essential health benefits defined under the Affordable Care Act. The goal of the new regulation is to create a new health insurance option for small businesses, sole proprietors and other self-employed individuals and to reduce the cost of insurance for these purchasers if they are association members. While the regulation could present new business opportunities for us, it also may reduce the size of the individual, family and small business health insurance markets that we are able to address, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In December 2018, a federal district court in Texas in Texas v. United States of America et al. , determined that the individual mandate in the Affordable Care Act is unconstitutional, because it was not within Congresss tax power or interstate commerce power. It also determined that the remaining provisions of the Affordable Care Act were inseverable and therefore invalid. The court, however, did not rule that the operation of the Affordable Care Act be enjoined, so the law continues to operate until determined otherwise by the court or an appellate court. The Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals agreed with the district court that the mandate is unconstitutional, but remanded the case back to the district court to address whether the unconstitutionality of the mandate should impact the rest of the law. If the Affordable Care Act were finally determined to be unconstitutional and no longer operated, it is unclear what impact it or its replacement would have on our business. However, it or its replacement could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be harmed if we do not enroll subsidy-eligible individuals through government-run health insurance exchanges efficiently. In order to offer the qualified health plans that individuals and families must purchase to receive Affordable Care Act subsidies, agents and brokers must meet certain conditions, such as receiving permission to do so from the applicable government health insurance exchange, entering into an agreement with the health insurance exchange or a partner of the exchange, ensuring that the enrollment and subsidy application is completed through the health insurance exchange and complying with privacy, security and other standards. In the event Internet-based agents and brokers such as us use the Internet for completion of qualified health plan selection purposes, their websites are required to meet certain additional requirements. To the extent we enroll individuals and families into qualified health plans, we do so through the Federally Facilitated Marketplace, or FFM, which runs all or part of the health insurance exchange in 38 states. We may experience difficulty in satisfying the conditions and requirements to offer qualified health plans to our existing members and new potential members, and in getting them enrolled through the FFM. If we are not able to satisfy these conditions and requirements, or if we are not able to successfully adopt and maintain solutions that allow us to enroll large numbers of individuals and families in qualified plans over the Internet both during and outside of open enrollment periods, we will lose existing members and new members, and may incur additional expense, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if we are not able to adopt or contract with and maintain solutions to integrate with government-run health insurance exchanges or if the health insurance exchange websites and other processes are unstable or not consumer friendly, efficient and compatible with the process we have adopted for enrolling individuals and families into qualified health plans through the exchanges, we would not be successful in retaining and acquiring members, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The FFM may at any time cease allowing us to enroll individuals in qualified health plans or change the requirements for doing so. If it does so or if the FFM platform does not function properly, our ability to retain existing members and add new members could be negatively impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. CMS has broad authority over the requirements that must be met in order to enroll individuals into qualified health plans through the FFM without visiting the FFM website. Beginning in the open enrollment period that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2018, CMS adopted a new enhanced direct enrollment pathway for CMS-approved partners to enroll individuals into qualified health plans and complete all steps in the eligibility and enrollment process on a single website. The enhanced direct enrollment process uses an application programming interface to transfer information relating to health plan and subsidy eligibility between the FFM and the approved partners website. Before enhanced direct enrollment partners are approved, 23 extensive security and privacy reviews are conducted by an independent third-party auditor and CMS reviews the audit results to ensure the entity satisfies numerous additional privacy and security standards. We entered into an agreement to outsource certain aspects of the enrollment process for qualified health plans to a third party in light of the expense and burden associated with the additional requirements, and the entity was successful in passing the required audit to use this new process for the current open enrollment period that began on November 1, 2019. However, if we do not develop the ability to satisfy the requirements to use the improved qualified health plan enrollment process in the future, or if we are unsuccessful in entering into or maintaining a relationship with a third party who is approved to use the process, we could be required to use an alternative double redirect process that would require our customers to visit the FFM website in the middle of purchasing qualified health insurance plans to receive a subsidy eligibility determination. We have in the past used the double redirect process which resulted in a reduction in the rate at which individuals and families starting the application process for qualified health plans and subsidies became members and a reduction in our individual and family health insurance plan membership and revenue. If we are forced to use the double redirect process in the future, we could continue to experience loss of existing members and new potential members and a reduction in our individual and family health insurance plan membership and commission revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if any third party we contract with to perform certain aspects of the qualified health plan selection and enrollment process has a poor consumer experience or otherwise experiences technical or other difficulties, we could experience a reduction in our individual and family health insurance plan membership and revenue and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The medical loss ratio requirements that are a part of health care reform may harm our business. The Affordable Care Act contains provisions requiring health insurance carriers to maintain specified medical loss ratios. The medical loss ratio requirements for both individual and family and small business health insurance require health insurance companies to spend 80% of their premium revenue in each of their individual and small group health insurance businesses on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality. The medical loss ratio requirement for Medicare Advantage plans is 85%. If a health insurance carrier fails to meet medical loss ratio requirements, the health insurance carrier is required to rebate a portion of its premium revenue to its members to make up for the difference. Health insurance carriers may determine to reduce our Medicare Advantage plan, individual and family, or small group commissions as a result of the medical loss ratio requirements, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are not successful in cost-effectively converting visitors to our website and customer call centers into members for which we receive commissions, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our growth depends in large part upon growth in approved members in a given period. The rate at which consumers visiting our ecommerce platforms and customer care centers seeking to purchase health insurance are converted into approved members directly impacts our revenue. In addition, the rate at which consumers who are approved become paying members impacts the constrained LTV of our approved members, which impacts the revenue that we are able to recognize. A number of factors have influenced, and could in the future influence, these conversion rates for any given period, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include: changes in consumer shopping behavior due to circumstances outside of our control, such as economic conditions, consumers ability or willingness to pay for health insurance, availability of unemployment benefits or proposed or enacted legislative or regulatory changes impacting our business, including health care reform; the quality of and changes to the consumer experience on our ecommerce platforms or with our customer care centers; regulatory requirements, including those that make the experience on our ecommerce platforms cumbersome or difficult to navigate or reduce the ability of consumers to purchase plans outside of enrollment periods; the variety, competitiveness and affordability of the health insurance plans that we offer; system failures or interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce platform or call center operations; changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct, marketing partner and online advertising member acquisition channels; health insurance carriers offering the health insurance plans for which consumers have expressed interest, and the degree to which our technology is integrated with those carriers; health insurance carrier guidelines applicable to applications submitted by consumers, the amount of time a carrier takes to make a decision on that application and the percentage of submitted applications approved by health insurance carriers; the effectiveness of health insurance agents in assisting consumers; and 24 our ability to enroll subsidy-eligible individuals in qualified health plans through government-run health insurance exchanges and the efficacy of the process we are required to use to do so. Our conversion rates can be impacted by changes in the mix of consumers referred to us through our member acquisition channels. We may make changes to our ecommerce platforms in response to regulatory requirements or undertake other initiatives in an attempt to improve consumer experience or for other reasons. These changes have in the past, and may in the future have the unintended consequence of adversely impacting our conversion rates. A decline in the percentage of consumers who submit health insurance applications on our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our customer care centers and are converted into approved and paying members could cause an increase in our cost of acquiring members on a per member basis and impact our revenue in any given period. To the extent the rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our customer care centers into members suffers, our membership may decline, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our relationships with existing members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers and to our ability to attract new members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. The promotion of our brand in these and other ways may require us to make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these branding initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur and our operating results could be harmed. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow and we could lose our relationships with health insurance carriers, marketing partners and/or members, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we have historically received media attention in connection with our public relations efforts. While we cannot be certain of the impact of media coverage on our business, if it were to be reduced or if we were to receive negative publicity, the number of consumers visiting our platforms or customer call centers could decrease, and our cost of acquiring members could increase as a result of a reduction in the number of members coming from our direct member acquisition channel, both of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and could fall short of expectations. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, many of which are outside of our control. Among these factors, the assumptions underlying our estimates of commission revenue as required by ASC 606 , may vary significantly over time. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance, particularly in light of the fact that our business and industry are undergoing substantial change as a result of health care reform and initiatives we determined to pursue. If our revenue or operating results differ from our guidance or fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In the past, when our revenue and operating results differed from our guidance and the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock was impacted. System failures or capacity constraints could harm our business and operating results. The performance, reliability and availability of our ecommerce platforms and underlying network infrastructures are critical to our financial results, our brand and our relationship with members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. Although we regularly attempt to enhance our ecommerce platforms and system infrastructure, system failures and interruptions may occur if we are unsuccessful in these efforts, if we are unable to accurately project the rate or timing of increases in our website traffic or for other reasons, some of which are completely outside our control. Although we have experienced only minor system failures and interruptions to date, we could experience significant failures and interruptions in the future, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If these failures or interruptions occurred during the Medicare annual enrollment period or during the open enrollment period under health care reform, the negative impact on us would be particularly pronounced. 25 We rely in part upon third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers, to operate our ecommerce platforms. We cannot predict whether additional network capacity will be available from these vendors as we need it, and our network or our suppliers networks might be unable to achieve or maintain a sufficiently high capacity of data transmission to allow us to process health insurance applications in a timely manner or effectively download data, especially if our website traffic increases. Any system failure that causes an interruption in or decreases the responsiveness of our services would impair our revenue-generating capabilities and harm our business and operating results and damage our reputation. In addition, any loss of data could result in loss of customers and subject us to potential liability. Our facilities and our database and systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, acts of terrorism, other attempts to harm our systems and similar events. In addition, our operations are vulnerable to earthquakes, fire, severe weather conditions, including those brought about by climate change, and other natural disasters in the San Francisco Bay Area and elsewhere in Northern California as well as in other parts of the country and in China where we or our outsourced health insurance agents maintain offices. Consumers may access our customer care centers for assistance in connection with submitting health insurance applications. We depend upon third parties, including telephone service providers and third-party software providers, to operate our customer care centers. Any failure of the systems that we rely upon in the operation of our customer care centers could negatively impact sales as well as our relationship with consumers and members, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We depend upon Internet search engines to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website, and if we are unable to effectively advertise on search engines on a cost-effective basis, our business and operating results would be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through Internet search engines, such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to health insurance. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both to attract consumers to our websites and otherwise generate demand for our services. Algorithmic search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the consumers Internet search. From time to time, search engines revise these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications have caused our website to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our website. We may also be listed less prominently as a result of new websites or changes to existing websites that result in these websites receiving higher algorithmic rankings with the search engine. For example, government health insurance exchange websites appear prominently in algorithmic search results. Our website may become listed less prominently in algorithmic search results for other reasons, such as search engine technical difficulties, search engine technical changes and changes we make to our website. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and decided not to list their website in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently in, or removed altogether from, search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our websites would decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which would also increase our cost of member acquisition and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We purchase paid advertisements on search engines in order to attract consumers to our platforms. We typically pay a search engine for prominent placement of our website when particular health insurance-related terms are searched for on the search engine, regardless of the algorithmic search result listings. The prominence of the placement of our advertisement is determined by a combination of factors, including the amount we are willing to pay and algorithms designed to determine the relevance of our paid advertisement to a particular search term. As with algorithmic search result listings, search engines may revise the algorithms relevant to paid advertisements and websites other than our ecommerce platform may become more optimized for the algorithms. These changes may result in our having to pay increased amounts to maintain our paid advertisement placement in response to a particular search term. We could also have to pay increased amounts should the market share of major search engines continue to become more concentrated with a single search engine. Additionally, we bid against our competitors and others for the display of these paid search engine advertisements. Many of our competitors, including many health insurance carriers and government-run health insurance exchanges, have greater resources with which to bid and better brand recognition than we do. We have experienced increased competition from health insurance carriers, 26 government health insurance exchanges and some of our marketing partners for both algorithmic search result listings and for paid advertisements. The competition has increased the cost of paid internet search advertising and has increased our marketing and advertising expenses. The competition increases substantially during the enrollment periods for Medicare related health insurance and for individual and family health insurance. If paid search advertising costs increase or become cost prohibitive, whether as a results of competition, algorithm changes or otherwise our advertising expenses could rise significantly or we could reduce or discontinue our paid search advertisements, either of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely significantly on marketing partners and our business and operating results would be harmed if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with our existing marketing partners or if we do not establish successful relationships with new marketing partners. In addition to marketing through Internet search engines, we frequently enter into contractual marketing relationships with other online and offline businesses that promote us. These marketing partners include financial and online service companies, affiliate programs and online advertisers and content providers. We also have relationships with strategic marketing partners, including hospitals and pharmacy chains that promote our Medicare platforms to their customers as well as pharmacy service providers. We compensate many of our marketing partners for their referrals on a submitted health insurance application basis and, if they are licensed to sell health insurance, may share a percentage of the commission we earn from the health insurance carrier for each member referred by the marketing partner. Many factors influence the success of our relationship with our marketing partners, including: the continued positive market presence, reputation and growth of the marketing partner; the effectiveness of the marketing partner in marketing our website and services, including whether the marketing partner is successful in maintaining the prominence of its website in algorithmic search result listings and paid Internet advertisements; the compliance of our marketing partners with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines; the interest of the marketing partners customers in the health insurance plans that we offer ; the contractual terms we negotiate with the marketing partner, including the marketing fees we agree to pay a marketing partner; the percentage of the marketing partners customers that submit applications or purchase health insurance policies through us; the ability of a marketing partner to maintain efficient and uninterrupted operation of its website; and our ability to work with the marketing partner to implement website changes, launch marketing campaigns and pursue other initiatives necessary to maintain positive consumer experiences and acceptable traffic volumes. For instance, we partner with Internet lead aggregators who refer a significant number of consumers to our online platforms. Major search engines have in the past and may in the future determine not to list lead aggregator websites prominently in search result listings for various reasons, which would cause a significant reduction in the number of consumers referred to us through our marketing partner channel. While we have relationships with a large number of marketing partners, we depend upon referrals from a limited number of marketing partners for a significant portion of the submitted applications we receive from our marketing partner customer acquisition channel. Given our reliance on our marketing partners, our business operating results and financial condition would be harmed if any of the following were to occur: if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our existing marketing partners, particularly marketing partners responsible for a significant number of our submitted applications; if we fail to establish successful relationships with new marketing partners; if we experience competition in our receipt of referrals from our high volume marketing partners; and if we are required to pay increased amounts to our marketing partners. Competition for referrals from our marketing partners has increased particularly during the enrollment periods for Medicare-related health insurance and individual and family health insurance. We may lose marketing partner referrals if our competitors pay marketing partners more than we do or be forced to pay increased fees to our marketing partners, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we lose marketing partner referrals during the Medicare or 27 individual and family health insurance enrollment periods, the adverse impact on our business would be particularly pronounced. In addition, the promulgation of laws, regulations or guidelines, or the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and guidelines, by state departments of insurance or by CMS, could cause our relationships with our marketing partners to be in non-compliance with those laws, regulations and guidelines. We also have relationships with hospital systems and pharmacy chains that utilize aspects of our platform and tools. Our relationships with these hospital systems and pharmacy chains result in the referral of a significant number of individuals to us who are interested in purchasing Medicare-related health insurance plans. If CMS or state departments of insurance were to change existing laws, regulations or guidelines, or interpret existing laws, regulations or guidelines, to prohibit these arrangements, or if hospital systems or pharmacy partners otherwise decided to no longer utilize aspects of our platform and tools, we could experience a significant decline in the number of Medicare-eligible individuals who are referred to our platforms and customer care centers, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If commission reports we receive from carriers are inaccurate or not sent to us in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed and we may not recognize trends in our membership. We rely on health insurance carriers to timely and accurately report the amount of commissions earned by us, and we calculate our commission rates per member, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our marketing and other operating efforts based on the reports we receive from health insurance carriers. There have been instances where we have determined that policy cancellation data reported to us by a health insurance carrier has not been accurate. The extent to which health insurance carriers are inaccurate in their reporting of policy cancellations could cause us to change our cancellation estimates, which could adversely impact our revenues. We apply judgment and make estimates based on historical data and current trends to independently determine whether or not carriers are accurately reporting commissions due to us. Our revenue recognition policy changed in the first quarter of 2018 as a result of our adoption of ASC 606. To the extent that health insurance carriers understate or fail to accurately report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, our estimates of constrained LTV may be adversely impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any inaccuracies in the reports would adversely impact our commission revenue for future periods which is based on historical trends, including trends relating to contracted commission rates and expected health insurance plan cancellation. We depend on health insurance carriers and others for data related to our membership. For instance, with respect to health insurance plans other than small business health insurance, health insurance carriers do not directly report member cancellations to us, resulting in the need for us to determine cancellations using payment data that carriers provide. We infer cancellations from this payment data by analyzing whether payments from members have ceased for a period of time, and we may not learn of a cancellation for several months. With respect to our small business membership, many groups notify the carrier directly with respect to increases or decreases in group size and policy cancellations. Our insurance carrier partners often do not communicate this information to us, and it often takes a significant amount of time for us to learn about small business group cancellations and changes in our membership within the group itself. We often are not made aware of policy cancellations until the time of the groups annual renewal. After we have estimated membership for a period, we may receive information from health insurance carriers that would have impacted the estimate if we had received the information prior to the date of estimation. We may receive commission payments or other information that indicates that a member who was not included in our estimates for a prior period was in fact an active member at that time, or that a member who was included in our estimates was in fact not an active member of ours. We also reconcile information health insurance carriers provide to us and may determine that we were not historically paid commissions owed to us, which would cause us to have underestimated our membership. As a result of open enrollment periods, we may not receive information from our carriers on as timely a basis due to the significant increase in health insurance transaction volume, which could impair the accuracy of our membership estimates. Additionally, health insurance carriers may require us to return commission payments paid in a prior period due to policy cancellations for members we previously estimated as being active. For these and other reasons, including if current trends in membership cancellation are inconsistent with past cancellation trends that we use to estimate our membership or if carriers subsequently report changes to the commission payments that they previously reported to us, our actual membership could be different from our estimates, perhaps materially. If our actual membership is different from our estimates, the constrained LTV component of our revenue recognition could also be inaccurate, including as a result of an inaccurate estimate of the average amount of time our members maintain their health insurance plans. 28 Our business is subject to security risks and, if we are subject to cyber attacks, security breaches or otherwise unable to safeguard the security and privacy of confidential data, including personal health information, our business will be harmed. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential and personally identifiable information of consumers and the transmission of this information to their chosen health insurance carriers and to government. For example, we collect names, addresses, Social Security and credit card numbers and protected health information such as information regarding the medical history of consumers. As a result, we are subject to various laws and regulations and contractual requirements regarding the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure and disposal of sensitive personal information. We also hold a significant amount of information relating to our current and former employees. We cannot guarantee that our facilities and systems, and those of our third party service providers, will be free of security breaches, cyber-attacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, malware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Compliance with privacy and security laws, requirements and regulations, particularly new state legislation such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, may result in cost increases due to new constraints on our business, the development of new processes, the effects of potential non-compliance by us or third party service providers, and enforcement actions. We may be required to expend significant amounts and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches. Despite our implementation of security measures, techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Additionally, our third party service providers may cause security breaches for which we are responsible. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security by us or by one of our vendors could damage our reputation, cause the termination of relationships with government-run health insurance exchanges and our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers, reduce demand for our services and subject us to significant liability and expense as well as regulatory action and lawsuits, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, in the event that additional data security laws are implemented, or our health insurance carrier or other partners determine to impose requirements on us relating to data security, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could result in our inability to sell health insurance plans in a particular jurisdiction or for a particular health insurance carrier or subject us to liability for non-compliance, any of which would damage our business, operating results and financial condition. For instance, health insurance carriers may require us to be compliant with Payment Card Industry, or PCI, security standards in order to accept credit card information from consumers or require us to comply with privacy and security standards to do business with us at all. PCI compliance and compliance with other privacy and security standards are regularly assessed, and we may not always be compliant with the standards. If we are not in compliance, we may not be able to accept credit card information from consumers or conduct health insurance business, and our relationship with health insurance carriers could be adversely impacted or terminated, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There are many risks associated with our operations in China. A portion of our operations is conducted by our subsidiary in China. Among other things, we use employees in China to maintain and update our ecommerce platform and perform certain tasks within our finance and customer care and enrollment functions. We rely on the Internet to communicate with our subsidiary in China. Our business would be harmed if our ability to communicate over the Internet with these employees failed, and we were prevented from promptly updating our software or implementing other changes to our database and systems, among other things. From time-to-time we receive inquiries from health insurance carriers relating to our operations in China and the security measures we have implemented to protect data that our employees in China may be able to access. As a part of these inquiries, we have implemented additional security measures relating to our operations in China. We may be required to implement further security measures to continue aspects of our operations in China or health insurance carriers may require us to bring aspects of our operations in China back to the United States, which could be time consuming and expensive and harm our operating results and financial condition. Health insurance carriers may also terminate our relationship due to concerns surrounding protection of data that our employees in China are able to access, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations in China also expose us to different and unfamiliar laws, rules and regulations, including different intellectual property laws, which are not as protective of our intellectual property as the laws in the United States. United States and Chinese trade laws may also impose restrictions on the importation of programming or technology to or from the United 29 States. We are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, privacy and data security laws, labor laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions in China. On June 1, 2017, a national cyber security law came into effect in China. The law, along with its implementation regulations, applies to the establishment, operation, maintenance and usage of networks within China and the supervision and management of cyber security. Under the law, network operators are required to comply with certain tiered security obligations based on the networks relative impact on national security, social order, public interest and individuals privacy rights. There remains considerable uncertainty as to how the cyber security law will be applied, and the regulatory environment continues to evolve with new draft regulations and standards published frequently. Such laws, regulations and standards are complex, ambiguous and subject to change or interpretation, which create uncertainty regarding compliance. Pursuant to the draft regulations, we may be required to perform self-assessments, obtain third party certifications, report cyber security incidents and make filings with public security authorities. We could also be subject to security inspections and evaluations by public security authorities and be restricted to use only network products and services that meet certain standards based on the level of risk applicable to us. Compliance with these laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business operations in China. Violation of applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our brand, affect our relationship with our health insurance carriers, and could result in regulatory enforcement actions and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and fines, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in Chinas economic or political condition. We have recently experienced greater competition for qualified personnel in China, which has raised market salaries and increased our compensation costs related to employees in China. If competition for personnel increases further, our compensation expenses could rise considerably or, if we determine to not increase compensation levels, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in China may be impaired, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These risks could cause us to incur increased expenses and could harm our ability to effectively and successfully manage our operations in China. Moreover, any significant or prolonged deterioration in the relationship between United States and China could adversely affect our operations in China. Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China. The escalation of trade tensions initiated by the current administration has increased the risk associated with our operations in China. Either the United States or the Chinese government may sever our ability to communicate with our China operations or may take actions that force us to close our operations in China. We employ a large number of our technology and content employees in China, and we have other employees in China that support our business. Any sudden disruption of our operations in China would adversely impact our business. If we are required to move aspects of our operations from China to our offices in the United States as a result of political instability, changes in laws, inquiries from health insurance carriers or for other reasons, we could incur increased expenses, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our sponsorship and advertising business may not be successful. We sell advertising space to health insurance carriers on our website through our sponsorship and advertising program. Our sponsorship and advertising program allows carriers to purchase advertising space in specific markets in a sponsorship area on our website. Health insurance carriers have generally determined not to spend on individual and family health insurance advertising through our sponsorship and advertising program as a result of the impact of health care reform on the profitability of their individual and family health insurance businesses. To the extent that economic conditions, health care reform or other factors impact the amount health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising on our ecommerce platform, our sponsorship and advertising program will be adversely impacted. Since much of our sponsorship revenue depends upon the number of applications we submit to health insurance carriers, a reduction in demand for the carriers product (such as outside open enrollment periods) would reduce our sponsorship revenue and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The success of our sponsorship and advertising program depends on a number of other factors, including the effectiveness of the sponsorship and advertising program as a cost-effective method for carriers to obtain additional members, consumer and health insurance carrier adoption of the Internet and our ecommerce platform as a medium for the purchase and sale of health insurance, our ability to attract consumers visiting our ecommerce platform and convert those consumers into members, the existence of a relationship between us and a diverse group of carriers that offer a number of health insurance plans in the markets in which we attempt to sell advertising, the cost, benefit and brand recognition of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the advertising, the impact the advertising has on the sale of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the advertising and the effectiveness of the carriers other means of advertising. In addition, while our practice of selling advertising is described on our ecommerce platform, it could cause consumers to perceive us as not objective, which could harm our brand and result in a decline in our health insurance sales. It also could adversely impact our relationship with health 30 insurance carriers that do not purchase our advertising or otherwise result in accusations that we are favoring certain plans over others. As a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We also develop, host and maintain carrier dedicated Medicare plan websites and may undertake other marketing and advertising initiatives through our Medicare plan advertising program. Our success in doing so is dependent upon the same factors that could impact our sponsorship program. In addition, since we maintain relationships with a limited number of health insurance carriers to sell their Medicare plans, our Medicare plan-related advertising revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers and our ability to generate Medicare plan-related advertising revenue would be harmed by the termination or non-renewal of any of these relationships as well as by a reduction in the amount a health insurance carrier is willing to pay for these services. Moreover, in light of the regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, and given that these regulations are often unclear, change frequently and are subject to changing interpretations, we may in the future not be permitted to sell Medicare plan-related advertising. If we are not successful in generating Medicare plan-related advertising revenue, our business operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm our business and operating results. We believe that our intellectual property is an essential asset of our business and that our technology currently gives us a competitive advantage in the distribution of Medicare-related, individual and family and small business health insurance. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish and protect our intellectual property rights in the United States. The efforts we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be sufficient or effective, and our trademarks may be held invalid or unenforceable. Moreover, the law relating to intellectual property is not as developed in China, and our intellectual property rights may not be as respected in China as they are in the United States. We may not be effective in policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property, trade secrets and other confidential information, and even if we do detect violations, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any enforcement efforts we undertake, including litigation, could be time-consuming and expensive, could divert our managements attention and may result in a court determining that our intellectual property or other rights are unenforceable. If we are not successful in cost-effectively protecting our intellectual property rights, trade secrets and confidential information, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. There are a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets applicable to the internet and technology industries and entities frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated, infringed or misused other parties intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods or that cover third-party technology that we use as a part of our websites. Any intellectual property claim against us, with or without merit, could be time consuming, expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our managements attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and could result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third partys rights. We might be required to seek a license for third-party intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license is available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. We may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit our services and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, or negative publicity for the information on our website or that we otherwise provide could harm our business and operating results. We provide information on our website, through our customer care centers, in our marketing materials and in other ways regarding health insurance in general and the health insurance plans we market and sell, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, provider networks, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable 31 amount of insurance plan information on our website. We also use the information provided on our website and otherwise collected by us to publish reports designed to educate consumers, facilitate public debate, and facilitate reform at the state and federal level. If the information we provide on our website, through our customer care centers, in our marketing materials or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, or if we do not properly assist individuals and businesses in purchasing health insurance, members, health insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages, our relationships with health insurance carriers could be terminated or impaired and regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, revoke our licenses to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions, which could result in our loss of our commission revenue. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. Although in the past we have resolved these complaints without significant financial cost or impact to our brand or reputation, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. Our sales of short-term health insurance plans that lack the same benefits as major medical health insurance plans may increase the risk that we receive complaints regarding our marketing and business practices due to the potential for consumer confusion between short-term health insurance and major medical health insurance. In addition, these types of claims could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, could divert our managements attention and other resources, and could cause a loss of confidence in our services. As a result, whether or not we are able to successfully resolve these claims, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the ordinary course of our business, we have received and may continue to receive inquiries from state regulators relating to various matters. We also have become, and may in the future become, involved in litigation or claims in the ordinary course of our business, including with respect to employment-related claims such as workplace discrimination or harassment. We have, and may in the future, face claims of violations of other local, state, and federal labor or employment laws, laws and regulations relating to marketing and laws and regulations relating to the sale of insurance. If we are found to have violated laws or regulations, we could lose our relationship with health insurance carriers and be subject to various fines and penalties, including revocation of our licenses to sell insurance which would cause us to lose our commission revenue, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially harmed. In addition, if regulators believe our websites or marketing material are not compliant with applicable laws or regulations, we could be forced to stop using our websites, marketing material or certain aspects of them, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results . We acquired Wealth, Health and Life Advisors, LLC, more commonly known as GoMedigap, in January 2018 and we may in the future acquire other businesses, products and technologies. Our ability as an organization to successfully make and integrate acquisitions is unproven. Acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks, including the following: an acquisition may negatively impact our results of operations because it will require us to incur transaction expenses, and after the transaction, may require us to incur charges and substantial debt or liabilities, may require the amortization, write down or impairment of amounts related to deferred compensation, goodwill and other intangible assets, or may cause adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges, such as expenses related to the change in fair value of earnout liability; an acquisition undertaken for strategic business purposes may negatively impact our results of operations; we may encounter difficulties in assimilating and integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of companies that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company departs or decide not to work for us; an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; we may be required to implement or improve internal controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at a business that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; the acquired businesses, products or technologies may not generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs or to maintain our financial results; we may have to issue securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders ownership and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock; and acquisitions may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify or consummate any future acquisition on favorable terms, or at all. If we do pursue an acquisition, it is possible that we may not realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition or that the 32 financial markets or investors will negatively view the acquisition. Even if we successfully complete an acquisition, it could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our debt obligations contain restrictions that impact our business and expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. We are party to a credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada and other lenders that enable us to borrow up to $75 million pursuant to a revolving credit facility. This credit agreement imposes certain covenants and restrictions on our business and our ability to obtain additional financing. As of December 31, 2019 , we had no outstanding debt under our revolving credit facility. Among other things, the credit agreement requires the lenders consent, under certain circumstances, to: merge or consolidate; sell or transfer assets outside the ordinary course of business; make certain types of investments and restricted payments; incur additional indebtedness or guarantee indebtedness of others; pay dividends on our capital stock; enter into transactions with affiliates; and grant liens on our assets, subject to certain exceptions. Our credit agreement also contains customary affirmative covenants, including covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Further, the credit agreement contains a financial covenant requiring the Company to maintain a minimum level of excess availability at any time. The facility contains events of default, including, among others, non-payment defaults, inaccuracy of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross-defaults to other indebtedness, judgment defaults, collateral defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults and a change of control default. If we experience a decline in cash flow due to any of the factors described in this Risk Factors section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest and principal amounts due on our indebtedness and meeting the financial covenants set forth in our loan facility. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under the credit facility, or if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, we could default under our credit facility. Any default that is not cured or waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the credit facility, an increase in the applicable interest rate under the credit facility, and would permit our lender to exercise rights and remedies with respect to all of the collateral that is securing the credit facility, which includes substantially all of our assets. Any such default could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Even if we comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on the conduct of our business could materially adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to the business. Even if the credit facility were terminated, additional debt we could incur in the future may subject us to similar or additional covenants, which could place restrictions on the operation of our business. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. We have a complex business organization. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting