Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Background The purchase of health insurance is a high-stakes decision for a consumer. Historically it has been a complex, time-consuming and paper-intensive process. The complexity can make it difficult to make informed health insurance decisions. In addition, the human errors that arise from traditional paper-intensive distribution have historically resulted in a high number of incomplete and inaccurate applications being submitted to health insurance carriers. These incomplete and inaccurate paper applications often result in back-and-forth communications, delay and additional costs. The Internets convenient, information-rich and interactive nature offers the opportunity to provide consumers with more organized up-to-date information, a broader choice of plans and a more efficient and accurate process than have typically been available from traditional health insurance distribution channels. We believe that over time the Internet will become an increasingly important channel for researching and enrolling into health 6 insurance plans, similar to other consumer-focused industries such as travel, financial services and shopping. Medicare is a federal program that provides persons sixty-five years of age and over, and some persons under the age of sixty-five who meet certain conditions, with hospital and medical insurance benefits. Medicare beneficiaries choose between Medicare Fee-For-Service and Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Fee-For-Service is a government plan where the consumer is responsible for select health care related payments with no limit on out-of-pocket expenses. To increase coverage, Medicare Fee-For-Service beneficiaries can purchase commercially offered Medicare Supplement plans. Medicare Advantage is an alternative to Medicare Fee-For-Service. CMS contracts with private health insurance carriers under the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug programs. Under these programs, the government pays health insurance carriers per enrollee to cover health care expenses rather than the government making payments directly to providers under Medicare Fee-For-Service. Medicare Advantage plans are required to cover the same services as Medicare Fee-For-Service and usually cover a variety of other health care services and include a cap on out-of-pocket spending for the consumer. Individual and family products are typically purchased by consumers under 65 years of age that do not have coverage through their employer. Small business group health insurance addresses the health insurance needs of businesses with 100 or fewer employees, although we have chosen to focus on employer groups of 20 or fewer employees. Individual, family and small business health insurance has historically been sold by independent insurance agents and, to a lesser degree, directly by insurance companies. Many of these agents are self-employed or part of small agencies, and they typically service only their local communities. In addition, many of these agents sell health insurance from a limited number of insurance carriers (in some cases only one), resulting in a reduced selection of plans for the consumer. Our Growth Strategy We believe that our consumer-centric omnichannel distribution model provides us competitive strengths in customer engagement and health insurance enrollment, and creates significant opportunities for growth in our core Medicare business and in other areas of the health insurance market. We intend to pursue the following strategies to further advance our business. Pursue Deliberate Medicare Membership and Revenue Growth We intend to pursue deliberate, targeted growth focusing on products, demand generation channels, fulfillment processes and market segments that best leverage our competitive differentiation and benefits of our omnichannel choice model. This involves a near-term slowdown in our overall Medicare enrollment growth while continuing to invest for growth in target areas, including online enrollments, partnering with carriers on dedicated call center programs, and expanding strategic partnerships. We are also making changes to variable cost management including a reduction in ineffective marketing expenses and a transition to a more targeted marketing spend allocation to channels and initiatives with the highest return on our investment. We believe that consumers are increasingly favoring choice and the ability to comparison shop to achieve optimal health insurance coverage. In addition, seniors' adoption of the internet for research, social interaction and shopping is growing and has been accelerated by the global COVID-19 pandemic. Our omnichannel choice model is well aligned with these evolving needs and preferences of our customers and can allow us to reach a large portion of the growing Medicare market through a thoughtful, targeted growth strategy. 7 Focus on the Enrollment Quality Our goal is to take a leadership position by establishing our omnichannel distribution platform as the gold standard for customer experience within the industry. We believe that broker performance will be increasingly evaluated by health insurance carriers based on customer satisfaction, retention and other quality metrics. This trend could change the competitive landscape in our business and create significant competitive advantages for agents and brokers that successfully work with carriers on attaining quality goals. Through continuing improvements to our online experience and plan recommendation engine, and enhancement to agent training, we strive to present Medicare beneficiaries with choices that best align with their eligibility status, lifestyle, health conditions and economic means with the goal of minimal disruption in existing provider relationships. In addition, our online channel has been historically characterized by higher enrollment quality compared to telephonic enrollments which is expected to have a favorable impact as its contribution to total Medicare enrollments continues to expand. We are continuously seeking additional ways to improve our customer experience, enhance our plan recommendations and reduce disenrollment. In the third quarter of 2021, we introduced additional mandatory training for our agents, added a new customer care function to verify certain Medicare enrollments prior to submission to the carrier, and expanded other quality assurance efforts. While we expect these initiatives will enhance the quality of our enrollments and strengthen our competitive differentiation in the industry, generally, the introduction of these efforts to date has resulted in lower conversion rates and longer average talk times for telephonic enrollments. Improve Effectiveness of our Telesales Organization Telesales is an important component of our growth strategy. Our goal is to position our agents for success in providing an industry leading consumer experience while generating enrollments at sustainable unit economics including attractive conversion rates, acquisition costs, and plan persistence. In 2021, we made an aggressive pivot in our telesales channel to a model driven predominantly by in-house sales agents who as a group tend to generate higher quality enrollments at better conversion rates compared to outsourced agents. We also continue to invest in our call center technology and migrated to a cloud-based contact center in 2021. This cloud-based contact center provides robust new capabilities to train agents, support them in their interactions with customers, and monitor their performance in real time. To further enhance the effectiveness of our telesales operation, we are piloting regional segmentation for our agents to deepen their expertise in the plans they are offering. We will also be pursuing ancillary product sales more aggressively to better leverage our call center resources outside of peak selling times for major Medicare products. Extend Market Leadership Position in Online Enrollment We view our consumer engagement platform as unique in the Medicare market and attractive to the growing number of Medicare beneficiaries who prefer to research, compare and purchase health insurance online or through a hybrid telephonic and online process with partial agent assistance. We believe that over time the Internet will become an increasingly important channel for researching and enrolling into health insurance plans allowing us to capture a growing share of the Medicare distribution market. We continuously look for ways to improve the user experience of our online tools. In 2021, ahead of the annual enrollment period, we enhanced our online capabilities by launching an updated recommendation engine. This engine is designed to improve the accuracy of personalized plan-matching. It has machine-learning capabilities and leverages data from online customer interactions to provide recommendations, which we believe improves the online shopping experience and helps Medicare eligible consumers navigate increasingly broad and complex plan choices. The percentage of members who submit applications for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Supplement products online, including fully unassisted and partially agent assisted online enrollments, has substantially increased from 27% in 2019 to 37% in 2020 to 47% in 2021. The online unassisted 8 enrollments in particular substantially outpaced the overall enrollment growth on our platform and in the broader Medicare market. The percentage of applications for all Medicare products submitted unassisted online was 21% in 2021 compared to 16% in 2020. We are able to scale growth more rapidly through our online platform, which we expect will significantly reduce our investments in call center operations over time. Our online enrollments are also characterized by favorable persistency, lifetime values and quality metrics compared to applications generated telephonically. Accelerate Customer Affinity Strategy We are committed to continue driving our business away from a transaction-centric focus and toward building lasting customer relationships. A good foundation for this initiative was created in 2020 with the launch of our Customer Center platform and introduction of a retention team dedicated to the needs of existing members. As customers begin to utilize their Medicare plans post-enrollment, we proactively engage with them in order to maintain communication into the life of the plan. This is core to our customer affinity strategy. This engagement is achieved through a combination of agent and technology-driven initiatives. Our goal is to not only drive higher retention rates for our existing Medicare members but also increase the contribution from repeat customers to our new enrollments. We believe that increased consumer engagement and customer retention will have a positive impact on our revenue as well as lower our marketing and customer care and enrollment costs. Create New Revenue Streams and Support Growth of Ancillary and Individual and Family Plan Products We intend to leverage our technology leadership, carrier relationships and distribution capabilities to pursue the diversification of our core business and revenue base. This will include offering ancillary products to our current customer demographics such as Medicare recipients and accessing adjacent markets within the broader health insurance industry. We also plan to enhance our presence in the individual and family plan health insurance market that has recently been positively impacted by favorable regulatory landscape including the increased affordability of individual and family plans through premium subsidy expansion. Our Platforms and Technology Our ecommerce platforms and consumer engagement solutions are built to provide market leading information, decision support, customer engagement, and transactional services to a broad group of health insurance consumers across the country while prioritizing accessibility to health insurance. Our ecommerce platforms organize and present voluminous and complex health insurance information in an objective format that empowers individuals, families and small businesses to research, analyze, compare and purchase a wide variety of health insurance plans. Elements of our platforms include: Plan Comparisons and Recommendations . We offer online comparison and recommendation tools that process and simplify voluminous information across thousands of health insurance plans that are available through our platform. Our technology enables consumers to compare and evaluate health insurance options based on each consumer's specific needs and plan characteristics such as price, plan type, coverage limits, deductible amount, co-payment amount, and in-network and out-of-network benefits. After entering relevant information on our website or giving such information to one of our licensed agents, our platforms allow consumers to instantly receive a list of applicable health insurance plans and rate and benefit information in an easy-to-understand format. Our proprietary recommendation 9 algorithms are carrier-agnostic and were designed based on the several million customer assistance encounters we have facilitated. Online Application and Enrollment Forms . Health insurance applications vary widely by carrier and state. Our proprietary application tool allows us to capture each insurance applications unique business rules and build a corresponding online application. Our online application process offers our consumers significant improvements over the traditional, paper-intensive application process. It employs dynamic business logic to help individuals and families complete the application and enrollment forms correctly in real-time. This reduces delay resulting from application rework, a significant problem with traditional health insurance distribution, where incomplete applications are mailed back and forth between the consumer, the traditional agent and the carrier. We further simplify the enrollment process by accepting electronic signature. Customer and Carrier Data Interchange. Our digital data interface technology integrates our online application process with health insurance carriers technology systems, enabling us to deliver our consumers applications to health insurance carriers electronically. Our digital interface technology also expedites the loading of insurance product inventory in to our various shopping experiences and accelerates the application process by eliminating manual delivery. We also receive alerts and data from carriers, such as notification of approval or a request from a carrier for a consumers medical records for underwriting purposes, which we then relay electronically to the consumer. These features of our service help prevent applications from becoming delayed or rejected through inactivity of the consumer or the carrier. Call Center Technology Systems. Our proprietary agent-assist management systems enable us to provide a full range of personalized customer service tasks efficiently while complying with Medicare and health insurance regulatory requirements. Call center agents have script-on-screen tools that align to health insurance needs and leverage a common back office platform that powers our direct-to-consumer shopping experience. Our systems also have customer relationship management tools that can track each consumer throughout the application process, obtain real-time updates from the carrier, generate automated emails specific to each consumer and access a cross-sell engine and dashboard to identify and track cross-sell opportunities. Our auto-email system is feature-rich with HTML capability, customizable merge tags, granular segmentation and tracking capability. Customer Center. Our Customer Center enables members to create a secure personal profile that stores their prescription drug regimen, preferred doctors and pharmacies, current coverage, and other relevant data. This data is available to the member and our licensed agents that they contact. After members create a Customer Center account, our technology will import details provided to an agent over telephone to the account. The following are important benefits of our Customer Center: Empowers Medicare beneficiaries to take control of their personal information - Our Customer Center will put our members in the driver's seat by helping them track and update the information they will need when it is time to reconsider their coverage options. Identification of Medicare plan options - With their personal information easily accessible online and to our agents, it is easier for shoppers to find the best plan options for their personal needs and budget and also incentivizes them to return to us when their needs change. Drives retention through communication - Our Customer Center allows beneficiaries to track the status of their applications over time and connects them with us if they have questions. 10 Carrier Relationships We have developed strategic relationships with leading health insurance carriers in the United States, enabling us to offer thousands of health insurance plans online. We have relationships with a large number of Medicare-related, individual and family, small business and ancillary health insurance plan carriers, including large national carriers and well-established regional carriers. Many of these major carriers have been selling their products through us for over ten years. In many cases, we have back-office integration with major carriers allowing us to submit applications efficiently and cost-effectively, which is an area of competitive differentiation for our business. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. Marketing We focus on building brand awareness, increasing Medicare, individual, family and small business customer visits to our websites and telephonic sales centers and converting these visitors into members. Our marketing initiatives are varied and numerous, spanning both acquisition and retention marketing. They include: Direct Marketing . Our direct marketing channel consists of consumers who call our call centers directly or access our websites (e.g.,e Health.com, eHealthInsurance.com, eHealthMedicare.com, and GoMedigap.com ) either directly or through algorithmic search listings on Internet search engines and directories. Our direct marketing programs include direct mail, email marketing, search engine optimization, television/video (including linear, connect television devices, and over the top media), radio/audio, and print advertising. Online Advertising. Our online advertising channel consists of consumers who access our website or call centers through paid keyword search advertising from search engines such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!, paid social platforms like Facebook, as well as various Internet marketing programs such as display advertising and retargeting campaigns. Our online advertising programs are delivered across all Internet-enabled devices, including desktop computers, tablet computers and smart phones. Marketing Partners . Our marketing partner channel consists of consumers who access our website and call centers through a network comprised of partners that drive consumers to our ecommerce platform and call centers. These partners include health care industry participants, such as insurance carriers; affiliate organizations; online advertisers and content providers that are specialists in paid and unpaid (algorithmic) search, as well as specialists in other types of Internet marketing; pharmacies and hospital networks; financial and online services partners in industries such as banking, insurance and mortgage; and off-line lead generators who specialize in traditional direct marketing channels, such as direct mail and television advertising. Strategic Partner Marketing. Our strategic partner marketing channel consists of co-branded direct marketing with brands to serve their constituencies across key industry vertical categories. We also offer a suite of product integrations to assist in optimizing partner traffic through our online and telephonic flows. This in turn drives value for our strategic partner by helping fill a need of their client. 11 Technology and Content We have a technology and content team that is responsible for ongoing enhancements to the features and functionality of our ecommerce platform, which we believe are critical to maintaining our technology leadership position in the industry. A large number of our technology and content employees are located in our subsidiary in Xiamen, China. There are many risks associated with having an operation and doing business in China. Information regarding risks involving our operations in China is included in Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Government Regulation and Compliance We distribute health insurance plans in all 50 states and in the District of Columbia. The health insurance industry is heavily regulated. Each of these jurisdictions has its own rules and regulations relating to the offer and sale of health insurance plans, typically administered by a department of insurance. State insurance departments have administrative powers relating to, among other things: regulating premium prices; granting and revoking licenses to transact insurance business; approving individuals and entities to which, and circumstances under which, commissions can be paid; regulating advertising, marketing and trade practices; monitoring broker and agent conduct; and imposing continuing education requirements. We are required to maintain valid life and/or health agency and/or agent licenses in each jurisdiction in which we transact health insurance business. In addition to state regulations, we also are subject to federal laws, regulations and guidelines issued by CMS that place a number of requirements on health insurance carriers and agents and brokers in connection with the marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. We are subject to similar requirements of state insurance departments with respect to our marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans. Medicare plans are not generally able to be purchased outside of an annual enrollment period that occurs in the fourth quarter of the year, subject to exception for individuals aging into Medicare eligibility and for individuals who qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events. In addition, Medicare Advantage plan enrollees may enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan or disenroll from their Medicare Advantage plan and return to original Medicare during the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period that occurs in the first quarter of the year. CMS and state insurance department regulations and guidelines include a number of prohibitions regarding the ability to contact Medicare-eligible individuals and place many restrictions on the marketing of Medicare-related plans. For example, our health insurance carrier partners are required to file with CMS and state departments of insurance certain of our websites, our call center scripts and other marketing materials we use to market Medicare-related plans. In some instances, CMS or state departments of insurance must approve the material before we use it. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare-related plans are ambiguous, complex and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. In March 2010, the Affordable Care Act and related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act were signed into law. The Affordable Care Act has primarily impacted our business of selling individual, family, and small business insurance plans. Among several other provisions, these laws and the regulations implementing them included a mandate requiring individuals to maintain health insurance or face tax penalties, which was repealed effective in 2019; a mandate that certain employers offer and contribute to their employees group health insurance coverage or face tax penalties if they do not do so; prohibitions against insurance companies using pre-existing health conditions as a reason to deny an application for health insurance; requirements for minimum individual and small business health insurance benefit levels, including prohibitions on lifetime coverage limits and limitations on annual coverage limits; medical loss ratio requirements that require each health insurance carrier to spend a certain percentage of their premium revenue on reimbursement for clinical services and activities that improve health care quality; establishment of state and/or federal health insurance 12 exchanges to facilitate access to, and the purchase of, health insurance; Medicaid expansion so that a greater number of individuals will be insured under Medicaid programs; and subsidies and cost-sharing credits to make health insurance more affordable for those below certain income levels. The Affordable Care Act also established annual open enrollment periods for the purchase of individual and family health insurance. Individuals and families generally are not able to purchase individual and family health insurance outside of the annual enrollment periods, unless they qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events, such as losing employer-sponsored health insurance or moving to another state. Moreover, in order to be eligible for a subsidy, qualified individuals must purchase subsidy-qualifying health plans, known as qualified health plans, through a government-run health insurance exchange during the open enrollment period or a special enrollment period. While they are not required to do so, government-run exchanges are permitted to allow agents and brokers to enroll individuals and families into qualified health plans through them. The Federally Facilitated Marketplace, or FFM, run by CMS operated some part of the health insurance exchange in 33 states during the last health care open enrollment period. Our enrollment of individuals and families into qualified health plans to date has generally occurred through the FFM. We are subject to various federal and state privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements. These laws govern our collection, use, disclosure, protection and maintenance of the individually-identifiable information that we collect from consumers. For example, we are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, or HIPAA. HIPAA and regulations adopted pursuant to HIPPA require us to maintain the privacy of individually-identifiable health information that we collect on behalf of health insurance carriers, implement measures to safeguard such information and provide notification in the event of a breach in the privacy or confidentiality of such information. In addition, we have entered into contracts with health insurance carriers and others regarding the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure or disposal of sensitive personal information. The use and disclosure of certain data that we collect from consumers is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, or GLBA, and state statutes implementing GLBA, which generally require brokers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to opt out of certain disclosures before sharing such information with a third party, and which generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. We regularly assess our compliance with privacy and security requirements. These requirements are evolving, and states are beginning to adopt additional requirements, such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, which went into effect January 1, 2020, which establishes, among other things, new privacy rights for California residents such as the right to know what personal information has been collected about them, how we use and disclose this information and the right to request deletion of that information. In addition to government action, health insurance carrier expectations relating to privacy and security protections are increasing and evolving. We have incurred significant costs to develop new processes and procedures and to adopt new technology in an effort to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations and carrier expectations and to protect against cyber security risks and security breaches. We expect to continue to do so in the future. Violations of federal and state privacy and security laws and other contractual requirements may result in significant liability and expense, damage to our reputation or termination of relationship with government-run health insurance exchanges and our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers . Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also have filed patent applications that relate to certain of our technology and business processes. 13 Competition The market for selling health insurance plans is highly competitive. Our competitors include government entities, including government-run health insurance exchanges; health insurance carriers; other health insurance agents and brokers; and companies that use the Internet and other means to attract individuals interested in purchasing health insurance and generate revenue by referring these individuals to us or one of our competitors. Other agents and brokers. We compete with agents and brokers who offer and sell health insurance plans utilizing traditional offline distribution channels as well as the Internet. Our current competitors include the tens of thousands of local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities. A number of these agents operate websites and provide an online shopping experience for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance. In addition, there are a number of direct-to-consumer Medicare platforms that generate demand through a combination of online and traditional marketing channels and fulfill it through their call center operations. Government. In connection with our marketing of Medicare related health insurance plans, we compete with the federal governments original Medicare program. CMS also offers Medicare plan online enrollment, information and comparison tools and has established call centers for the sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. CMS has regulatory authority over the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug program and can influence the competitiveness of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans compared to the original Medicare program, as well as the compensation that health insurance carriers are allowed to pay us. Insurance carriers. Many health insurance carriers directly market and sell their plans to consumers through call centers and their own websites. Although we offer health insurance plans for many of these carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans directly to consumers and, to a much lesser extent, to small businesses. Health insurance carriers have become more experienced in marketing their products directly to consumers, both over the Internet and through more traditional channels, which has resulted in increased competition. Internet marketers and other advertisers. There are many internet marketing companies and other advertisers that use the Internet and other means to find consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and are compensated for referring those consumers to agents and health insurance carriers. We compete with these companies for individuals who are looking to purchase health insurance. Seasonality The majority of our commission revenue is recognized in the fourth quarter of each calendar year under Accounting Standards Codification, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606) , which we adopted using the full retrospective transition method on January 1, 2018. We have historically sold a significant portion of Medicare plans for the year in the fourth quarter during the Medicare annual enrollment period, when Medicare-eligible individuals are permitted to change their Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage for the following year. During 2021, 2020, and 2019, 49%, 57%, and 63%, respectively, of our Medicare plan-related applications were submitted during the fourth quarter. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our commission revenues related to new Medicare plan-related enrollments in the fourth quarter. Beginning January 1, 2019, CMS revived the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period during which Medicare Advantage plan enrollees may enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan or disenroll from their Medicare Advantage plan and return to original Medicare. The Medicare Advantage open enrollment period is scheduled to occur between January 1 and March 31 of each year. As a result, we 14 expect to generate higher commission revenue in the first quarter compared to the second and third quarters. The annual open enrollment period for individual and family health insurance also takes place in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, resulting in seasonality of individual and family plan submitted applications volume. During 2021, 2020, and 2019, 38%, 56%, 57%, respectively, of our individual and family plan-related applications were submitted during the fourth quarter. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our commission revenues related to individual and family plan-related enrollments in the fourth quarter. Individuals and families generally are not able to purchase individual and family health insurance outside of the annual enrollment period, unless they qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events, such as losing employer-sponsored health insurance or moving to another state. Extended open enrollment or special enrollment periods may change the seasonality of our individual and family health insurance business. For example, the COVID-related special enrollment period for individual and family health insurance that ended on August 15, 2021 caused increased sales of individual and family health insurance plans outside of the open enrollment period. Our marketing and advertising expenses are typically lower in each of our first through third quarters compared to the fourth quarter. We incur a significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses in the fourth quarter as a result of the Medicare annual enrollment period and the open enrollment period under the Affordable Care Act. We expect this seasonal trend in marketing and advertising expenses to continue in 2022. Prior to 2021, in preparation for the Medicare annual enrollment period, and to a lesser extent for the open enrollment period for individual and family health insurance plans, we typically began increasing our customer care center staff during the third and fourth quarters to handle the anticipated increased volume of health insurance transactions, which resulted in higher customer care and enrollment expenses in the third and fourth quarters. Historically, a significant portion of the seasonal increase in customer care center staffing was through the utilization of vendors that employ their own health insurance agents. During 2021, we shifted the mix of our telesales capacity towards full-time internal agents and away from third party vendor agents and began increasing our telesales capacity earlier in the year, during the second quarter. In October 2021, we entered the Medicare annual enrollment period with internal agents comprising over 95% of our total agents, the largest number of full-time employed agents in our history and compared to approximately 50% at the same time in 2020. We plan to maintain our in-house telesales agent force year-round, net of natural attrition, and expect to increase our internal agents' utilization outside of the enrollment periods by expanding our offerings of ancillary products and carrier call center outsourcing programs, and increasing our outbound calling efforts. Our customer care and enrollment expenses will still be highest in the fourth quarter and lowest in second quarter but the seasonal fluctuation is expected to be of a lower magnitude. Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance ("ESG") Starting in 2021, we published our inaugural Sustainability Report, which marked the beginning of our ESG journey as we made a company-wide commitment to a stronger focus on our long-term ESG opportunities and risks while also embedding them into our corporate strategy. Our report and future strategy are informed by an internal materiality assessment, and relevant topics identified through third-party reporting frameworks including Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, Global Reporting Initiative, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We are dedicated to making a difference in the lives of consumers, for our associates, partners and shareholders, and society. 15 Human Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately 2,379 full-time employees, of which 1,692 were in customer care and enrollment, 367 were in technology and content, 224 were in general and administrative, and 96 were in marketing and advertising. Of the 2,379 full-time employees, 259 were non-US employees based in our subsidiary in China. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. As required under Chinese law, the employees in our Xiamen, China office established what is referred to as a labor union in China in January 2014. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be strong. We value our employees for their critical role in the success of our business. We focus on our culture and maintain a generous benefits package for our employees to attract, motivate, and retain them. Health benefits we offer are extended to all full-time employees. Our employee wellness benefits include mental health and financial well-being benefits, including fertility assistance, a tuition reimbursement program, a student loan repayment program, and financial counseling resources. We also offer manager level employees access to a robust manager development program as well as additional free online career enrichment courses through LinkedIn Learning that span various disciplines. During 2020, we implemented an employee stock purchase plan for our U.S. employees which enables them to purchase shares of our common stock at a discount from market prices and participate in equity ownership of us. We have also introduced expanded offerings for virtual employee training to ensure our employees continue to develop their skills while working remotely. We focus on diversity, equality, and inclusion and they form a part of our culture and values. We recently formed a diversity and inclusion committee to identify ways in which we can further support a culture of acceptance and inclusivity. The breakdown of our employees by gender is as follows: United States China Male 1,015 102 Female 1,096 145 Not disclosed 9 12 16 The breakdown of our US employees by race is as follows: The members of our board of directors represent a diverse perspective. The board currently is made up of nine members and has always included a majority of independent directors. Our board membership includes three women, one director who is a member of the LGBTQ+ community and one director who is of Hispanic and Asian heritage. In 2021, the Strategy Committee of our board took on the responsibilities related to overseeing ESG-related matters. Responsible Business and Information Security Information security is an integral part of our business. We emphasize that information security is everyones responsibility. We are committed to maintaining information security through responsible management, appropriate use, and protection according to relevant legal and regulatory requirements and our contractual relationships. We maintain an office of the chief information security officer, or CISO focused on information and systems technology and corporate governance to drive a common security framework practice. The office of the CISO concentrates on technology, behaviors, and safeguarding information from unauthorized or inappropriate access, use, or disclosure. The audit committee of our board of directors oversees information and cybersecurity risks and reviews status with our CISO periodically. We utilize various industry-recognized information security frameworks, including SOC-2, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI), CIS Controls, and CIS Benchmarks. Climate Change Though our direct environmental impact is limited, we believe that we all have a role to play in effectively planning for, and mitigating the effects of, climate change. Therefore, we consider climate-related risks when assessing our larger enterprise-level risks. We support science-based climate policies and decarbonization actions in alignment with the Paris Agreement and the Intergovernmental Panel on 17 Climate Change ("IPCC"). We intend to align with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board's Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures ("TCFD") and plan to expand our climate disclosures in the coming year using the TCFD framework. We voluntarily offset our 2020 greenhouse gas emissions using renewable energy certificates to reduce our impact and help increase the demand for renewable energy. We also consider how we can build upon our business model to reduce environmental impacts, such as those associated with the use of paper for processing insurance applications. Through the use of our online platforms, we have transformed a paper intensive health insurance application process into an easy to use digital experience. As we continue to grow, we plan to select and design our offices in a manner that promotes the health, well-being, and productivity of our workforce and consider the environmental impacts of our facilities. For example, our Santa Clara office is located in a high performance building and adheres to a number of sustainability requirements under local and California state guidance. We have extended our data tracking mechanisms to better understand our organizational footprint and to identify ways to further mitigate our impact on the environment, including increasing the automation of our procurement activities. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business as they may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. Risks Related to Our Business If our ability to enroll individuals during enrollment periods is impeded or if investments we make in enrollment periods do not result in the returns we expected when making those investments, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In an attempt to attract and enroll a large number of individuals during the Medicare annual enrollment period and to a lesser extent, the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period and the health care reform open enrollment period under the Affordable Care Act, we may invest in areas of our business, including technology and content, customer care and enrollment, and marketing and advertising. We have in the past made investments in areas of our business in advance of enrollment periods that have not yielded the results we expected when making those investments. Any investment we make in any enrollment period may not result in a significant number of approved and paying members or may not be as cost-effective as we anticipated. During the 2021 annual enrollment period for 2022 enrollments, we invested in marketing and advertising programs and in customer care and enrollments that did not yield the returns we expected, which adversely impacted our business, operating results and financial condition. If our ability to market and sell Medicare-related health insurance and individual and family health insurance is constrained during an enrollment period for any reason, such as technology failures, interruptions in the operation of our e-commerce or telephony platforms, reduced allocation of resources, any inability to timely employ, license, train, certify and retain our employees to sell health insurance, we could acquire fewer members, suffer a reduction in our membership, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 18 We may be unsuccessful in competing effectively against current and future competitors, including government-run health insurance exchanges. The market for selling health insurance plans is highly competitive. We compete with government-run health insurance exchanges, among others, with respect to our sale of Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance. The federal government operates a website where Medicare beneficiaries can purchase Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans or be referred to carriers to purchase Medicare Supplement plans. We also compete with the original Medicare program. The Affordable Care Act exchanges have websites where individuals and small businesses can purchase health insurance, and they also have offline customer support and enrollment capabilities. Our competitors also include local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities, companies that advertise primarily through television, and companies that operate websites that provide quote information or the opportunity to purchase health insurance online, including lead aggregator services. Many health insurance carriers also directly market and sell their plans to consumers through call centers, Internet advertising and their own websites. Although we offer health insurance plans for many of these carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans directly to consumers. In recent years, we also have seen increased competition from national telesales insurance brokers. To remain competitive against our current and future competitors, we will need to market our services effectively and continue to improve the online shopping experience and functionalities of our website and other platforms that our current and future customers may access to purchase health insurance products from us. If we cannot predict, develop and deliver the right shopping experience and functionality in a timely and cost-effective manner, or if we are not effective in cost-effectively driving a substantial number of consumers interested in purchasing health insurance to our website and customer care centers, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors and our business, operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services, devote more resources to website and systems development, negotiate more favorable commission rates and commission override payments, and make more attractive offers to potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers. Competitive pressures from government-run health insurance exchanges and other competitors may result in our experiencing increased marketing costs, especially during the Medicare annual enrollment period, decreased demand and loss of market share, increased health insurance plan termination and member turnover, reduction in our membership or revenue and may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationship with health insurance carriers or our relationship with health insurance carriers is modified. We typically enter into contractual relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In many cases, health insurance carriers also may amend the terms of our agreements unilaterally, including commission rates, on short notice. Health insurance carriers may decide to reduce our commissions, rely on their own internal distribution channels to sell their own plans, determine not to sell their plans or otherwise limit or prohibit us from selling their plans. Carriers may also amend our agreements with them for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons, dissatisfaction with the economics of the members that we place with them or because they do not want to be associated with our brand. The termination of our relationship with a health insurance carrier, the reduction of commission rates, or the amendment of or change in our relationship with a carrier has in the past, and may in the future, reduce the variety, quality 19 and affordability of health insurance plans we offer, cause a loss of commission payments, including commissions for past and/or future sales, cause a reduction in the estimated constrained lifetime values, or LTVs, we use for revenue recognition purposes, result in a loss of existing and potential members, adversely impact our profitability or have other adverse impacts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Health insurance carriers may also determine to exit certain states or increase premiums to a significant degree, which could cause our members health insurance to be terminated or our members to purchase new health insurance or determine not to pay for health insurance at all. If we lose these members, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our Medicare plan-related revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers. The success of our Medicare-related health insurance business depends upon our ability to enter into new and maintain existing relationships with health insurance carriers on favorable economic terms. We expect that a small number of health insurance carriers will account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future and any impairment of our relationship with, or the material financial impairment of, these health insurance carriers could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may also temporarily or permanently lose the ability to market and sell Medicare plans for one or more of our Medicare plan carriers. The laws and regulations applicable to the business of selling Medicare-related health insurance are complex and frequently change. If we or our health insurance agents violate any of the requirements imposed by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, federal or state laws or regulations, a health insurance carrier may terminate our relationship or other adverse consequences could result. Health insurance carriers may also terminate their relationship with us or require us to take corrective action if our Medicare product sales or marketing give rise to too many complaints. Given the concentration of our Medicare plan sales in a small number of carriers, if we lose a relationship with a health insurance carrier to market their Medicare plans, even temporarily, or if the health insurance carrier loses its Medicare product membership, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our financial results will be adversely impacted if our membership does not grow or if member retention does not improve and plan terminations do not decline. We receive commissions from health insurance carriers for health insurance plans sold through us. When one of these plans is canceled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the plan, we no longer receive the related commission payment. Our members and/or health insurance carriers may choose to discontinue their health insurance plans for a variety of reasons. Consumers may also purchase individual and family and Medicare-related health insurance plans directly from other sources, such as our competitors, and we would not remain the agent on the policy and receive the related commission. Medicare Advantage plan and Medicare Part D prescription drug plan enrollees may select another plan during the Medicare annual enrollment period that occurs in the fourth quarter every year. Medicare Advantage plan enrollees may also select another plan during the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period that occurs in the first quarter of the year. In addition, certain individuals are permitted to enroll, disenroll or change their Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D prescription drug plans during special enrollment periods. We experienced an increased plan termination rate in our Medicare membership in 2020 and 2021 above historical levels prior to 2020. While we have implemented measures to improve enrollment quality and member retention, if our Medicare Advantage and other health insurance plan termination rates do not decline in subsequent quarters, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, enrollment periods could cause us to further experience increased termination rates in the future, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Any decrease in the amount of time we retain our members on the health insurance plans that they purchased through us could adversely impact the estimated constrained LTVs we use for purposes of recognizing revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. For 20 example, our Medicare plan related products' LTVs have been negatively impacted by increased plan termination rates. While we have recently placed a stronger operational focus on member retention, there are no assurances that investments we make to pursue retention initiatives will result in a decline in health insurance plan termination rate and/or improvement in our constrained LTVs in the future. We have taken and may take additional actions to improve the customer experience, enhance accuracy of plan recommendations, reduce rapid disenrollment and beneficiary complaints, and improve the quality of our enrollments. For example, in the third quarter of 2021, we introduced mandatory additional training for our agents and added a new customer care role to verify certain Medicare enrollments prior to submission. While our focus on enrollment quality could improve retention rates and increase LTVs of our Medicare products, it has led to lower call conversion rates and longer average talk times for telephonic enrollments, resulting in a reduction in enrollments and increased cost of acquisition that has negatively impacted our business, operating results and financial condition. If agent productivity and member retention do not improve, our business, operating results and financial condition would be further harmed. If we experience higher health insurance plan termination rates than we estimated when we recognized commission revenue, we may not collect all of the related commissions receivable, which could result in a reduction in LTV and a write-off of contract assets - commissions receivable, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the growth of our membership is highly dependent upon our success in attracting new members during the Medicare annual enrollment period and to a lesser extent, the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period and the health care reform open enrollment period. The Medicare-related commission rates that we receive may be higher in the first calendar year of a plan if the plan is the first Medicare-related plan issued to the member. Similarly, the individual and family plan commission rates that we receive are typically higher in the first 12 months of a policy. After the first 12 months, the commission rates generally decline significantly. As a result, if we do not add a sufficient number of members to new plans, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results will be harmed. We believe that maintaining and enhancing our brand identity is critical to our relationships with existing members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers and to our ability to attract new members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. The promotion of our brand in these and other ways may require us to make substantial investments and we anticipate that, as our market becomes increasingly competitive, these branding initiatives may become increasingly difficult and expensive. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenue, and to the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur and our operating results could be harmed. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow and we could lose our relationships with health insurance carriers, marketing partners and/or members, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and public health crises, illness, epidemics or pandemics could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. COVID-19 and public health crises, illness, epidemics or pandemics, in general, and any associated disruption to our call center and service operations, in particular, could materially impact our business, operations and financial condition. In an effort to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, and to comply with applicable government directives, we currently operate with a combination of remote and in-office work in the United States, although our employees predominantly work remotely, and have implemented new business protocols for employees who have resumed work in our offices. Any safety measures required by local or state governments or otherwise imposed by us, such as vaccination or mask mandates, could increase our turnover and make recruiting more difficult, When we have more employees who have returned to in-office work, we may implement additional safety measures for our employees. A potential COVID-19 infection of any of our employees could adversely impact our operations, including resulting in the sudden closure of any of our offices. Our business operations may 21 be disrupted if key personnel or significant portions of our employees are unable to work effectively, especially if such disruption occurs during or in our preparation for the Medicare annual enrollment period. We have had to adjust our business operations, including onboarding and training new health insurance agents remotely. The prevalence of remote work could cause operational difficulties, reduce the effectiveness of our agents in selling health insurance and impair our ability to manage our business. An increased number of employees in a remote work environment may also exacerbate certain risks to our business, including an increased demand for information technology resources, increased risk of phishing and other cybersecurity attacks, and increased risk of unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or proprietary or confidential information about us or our customers or other third-parties. Our business operations and recruitment efforts could be impacted if government offices, including CMS and state departments of insurance, are adversely impacted by COVID-19 given that our marketing materials require CMS approval and health insurance agent licensing and licensing renewals are dependent on state department of insurance processing. Our product development initiatives could also be negatively impacted by our current combination of remote and in-office work and could be further impacted by potential extended office closures in the future. Furthermore, if any of our health insurance carriers, business partners or vendors increase the prices of or become unable to continue to provide their products or services as a result of COVID-19, or if health insurance carriers reduce our commission rates or the amount they pay us, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The impact of COVID-19 to our Individual, Family and Small Business segment could be impacted by potential increases in unemployment rates, potential delays in customer premium payments and/or health insurance carrier commission payments, the extension of the open enrollment period, and changes to qualified health plans subsidies, among others. COVID-19 presents uncertainties and risks with respect to the demand for and pricing of health insurance plans, which could negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance will depend on future developments, including the duration, spread and severity of the pandemic, the availability, effectiveness and uptake of vaccines for COVID-19, the emergence of new variants of COVID-19 and whether existing vaccines are effective with respect to such variants, the actions to contain the disease or mitigate its impact, and the duration, timing and severity of the impact on consumer behavior, including any recession resulting from the pandemic, all of which are unpredictable. Changes in our management and key employees could affect our business and financial results. Our success is dependent upon the performance of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary personnel, our business would be harmed. Our executive officers and employees can terminate their employment at any time. For example, we appointed a new chief executive officer and new chief financial officer in November and September 2021, respectively, after the departure of their predecessors. Further, our former chief revenue officer's employment terminated in January 2022 and we recently appointed an interim chief revenue officer. We also appointed a new chief operating officer and chief transformation officer in March 2022. This transition in senior management could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition as it will take time for our new officers to integrate into our business. The transition and the departure of members of our senior management could result in additional attrition in our senior management and key personnel and any significant change in leadership over a short period of time could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could harm our business. For example, we are required to appoint a single designated writing agent with each insurance carrier. A small number of our employees act as writing agent and each employee that acts as writing agent does so for a number of carriers. When an employee that acts as writing agent terminates their employment with us, we need to replace such writing agent with another employee who has health insurance licenses. Due to our national reach and the large number of carriers whose plans are purchased by our members, the process of changing writing agents has in the past taken and could take 22 a significant period of time to complete. If the transition is not successful, our ability to sell health insurance plans may be interrupted, our agency relationship with particular insurance carriers may be terminated, our commission payments could be discontinued or delayed and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Our business may be harmed if we are not successful in executing on our strategic investments, including our growth strategy and enrollment quality initiatives. As part of our strategy, we have invested in initiatives to grow our Medicare membership and revenue, to improve our customer experience, enhance accuracy of plan recommendations and reduce disenrollment, to increase online enrollment and enhance operating leverage, to expand our strategic partner relationships, improve our technology platform to optimize the consumer experience and relationship, and to utilize data analytics to increase the productivity of our customer care employees. Pursuing and investing in these and other initiatives we develop has required and will in the future require significant investments in marketing and advertising, technology and product offerings, and customer care and enrollment, among others, and involves risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, including the initiatives not achieving our retention, cost-savings, growth or profitability targets, inadequate return of capital on our investments, legal and regulatory compliance risks, potential changes in laws and regulations and other issues that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. Our pursuit of these strategic initiatives may not be successful. Our cash flow from operations is expected to be negative in the year ending December 31, 2022 and was negative in each of the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. If we are not successful in executing on our business strategy, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. Open enrollment periods drive the seasonality of our business. The Medicare annual enrollment period occurs from October 15 to December 7 each year and the individual and family health insurance open enrollment period has historically occurred from November 1 through December 15 each year. However, for the 2022 plan year, the individual and family health insurance open enrollment period ran from November 1, 2021 through January 15, 2022 for most states. In addition, the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period, where Medicare-eligible individuals who enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan can switch to the original Medicare program or switch to a different Medicare Advantage plan, runs from January 1 st through March 31 st of each year. We experience an increase in the number of submitted Medicare-related applications and approved members during the fourth quarter and, to a lesser extent, in the first quarter, and an increase in Medicare plan related expense during the third and fourth quarters in connection with the open enrollment periods. In addition, we typically experience the highest plan termination rates from our Medicare Advantage plan members in the first year following the effective date of plan enrollment. If we experience significant growth in Medicare Advantage approved members resulting in an increased number of first year members as a percentage of our total estimated membership, we may also experience increased health insurance plan terminations in the year following such periods of growth. The seasonality of our business could change in the future due to other factors, including as a result of changes in timing of the Medicare or individual and family health plan enrollment periods, adoption of new or special enrollment periods, changes in eligibility and subsidies applicable to the purchase of health insurance, and changes in the laws and regulations that govern the sale of health insurance. We may not be able to timely adjust to changes in customer demand and the seasonality of our business. If we are not successful in responding to changes in the seasonality of our business, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. 23 The success of our customer care center operations depends upon our ability to timely hire, train, retain and ensure the productivity of our licensed health insurance agents. In addition to our websites, we rely upon our customer care centers to sell Medicare plans. The success of our customer care center operations is dependent on licensed health insurance agents and other employees. In order to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans, our health insurance agent employees must be licensed by the states in which they are selling plans and certified and appointed with the health insurance carrier that offers the plans in each applicable state. We depend upon our employees, state departments of insurance, government exchanges and health insurance carriers for the licensing, certification and appointment of our health insurance agents. We may experience difficulties hiring a sufficient number of additional licensed agents and retaining existing licensed agents for the Medicare annual enrollment period. If we are not successful in these regards, our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans will be impaired during the Medicare annual enrollment period, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Even if we are successful in hiring licensed health insurance agents, our success depends on the productivity of these health insurance agents. Health insurance agents may not perform to the standard we expect of them, which could result in lower than expected conversion rates and revenue, higher costs of acquisition per member and higher plan termination rates. Historically, our health insurance agent employees have generally been more productive than the employees of our outsourced call centers and experienced health insurance agents have generally been more productive than less-tenured health insurance agents. During the Medicare annual enrollment period that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2020, we experienced reduced conversion rates from health insurance agents that work for outsourced call centers, which impacted our revenue and cost of acquisition. As a result, in preparation for the 2021 Medicare annual enrollment period, we increased the number of our health insurance agent employees to a much more significant degree, and we also began hiring, onboarding and training our health insurance agent employees earlier than we have in the past. We incurred increased expenses in agent onboarding and training in preparation for the 2021 Medicare annual enrollment period. Despite our investments in hiring and training a significantly larger number of our health insurance agent employees in 2021, the conversion rates of our health insurance agents have been lower than our expectations since the third quarter of 2021. Our increased focus on enrollment quality that began in the third quarter of 2021 has negatively impacted the conversion rates of our health insurance agents. If our health insurance agents do not perform to the standards we expect of them or if we do not generate sufficient call volumes for our health insurance agents to remain productive, our conversion and retention rates could be impacted, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Failure to retain, train and ensure the productivity of our health insurance agents would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If investments we make in our call center operations do not result in the returns we expected when making those investments, we could acquire fewer members, suffer a reduction in our membership, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. 24 If we are not successful in cost-effectively converting visitors to our website and customers who call into our call centers into members for whom we receive commissions, our business and operating results would be harmed. Our growth depends in large part upon growth in approved members in a given period. The rate at which consumers visiting our ecommerce platforms and customer care centers seeking to purchase health insurance are converted into approved members directly impacts our revenue. In addition, the rate at which consumers who are approved become paying members impacts the constrained LTV of our approved members, which impacts the revenue that we are able to recognize. A number of factors have influenced, and could in the future influence, these conversion rates for any given period, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: changes in consumer shopping behavior due to circumstances outside of our control, such as economic conditions, the COVID-19 pandemic, consumers ability or willingness to pay for health insurance, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, availability of unemployment benefits or proposed or enacted legislative or regulatory changes impacting our business, including health care reform; the quality of and changes to the consumer experience on our ecommerce platforms or with our customer care centers; regulatory requirements, including those that make the experience on our ecommerce platforms cumbersome or difficult to navigate or reduce the ability of consumers to purchase plans outside of enrollment periods; the variety, competitiveness, quality and affordability of the health insurance plans that we offer; system failures or interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce platform or call center operations; changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct, marketing partner and online advertising member acquisition channels, including the quality of sales leads; health insurance carrier guidelines applicable to applications submitted by consumers, the degree to which our technology is integrated with health insurance carriers, the amount of time a carrier takes to make a decision on that application and the percentage of submitted applications approved by health insurance carriers; the effectiveness of health insurance agents in assisting consumers, including the tenure of the health insurance agent; and our ability to enroll subsidy-eligible individuals in qualified health plans through government-run health insurance exchanges and the efficacy of the process we are required to use to do so. Our conversion rates can be impacted by changes in the mix of consumers referred to us through our member acquisition channels and whether they interact with a more seasoned health insurance agent. We have made and may in the future make changes to our ecommerce platforms, telephonic operations, marketing material or enrollment process in response to regulatory or health insurance carrier requirements or undertake other initiatives in an attempt to improve consumer experience, increase retention or for other reasons. These changes have in the past, and may in the future have the unintended consequence of adversely impacting our conversion rates. A decline in the percentage of consumers who submit health insurance applications on our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our customer care centers and are converted into approved and paying members could cause an increase in our cost of acquiring members on a per member basis and impact our revenue in any given period. To the extent the rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our customer care centers into members suffers, our membership may decline, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 25 We depend upon Internet search engines and social media platforms to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website, and if we are unable to effectively advertise on search engines or social media platforms on a cost-effective basis, our business and operating results would be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through Internet search engines, such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!, and through social media platforms, such as Facebook. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to health insurance or on a social media platform. Search engines typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both to attract consumers to our websites and otherwise generate demand for our services. Algorithmic search result listings are determined and displayed in accordance with a set of formulas or algorithms developed by the particular Internet search engine. The algorithms determine the order of the listing of results in response to the consumers Internet search. From time to time, search engines revise these algorithms. In some instances, these modifications have caused our website to be listed less prominently in algorithmic search results, which has resulted in decreased traffic to our website. We may also be listed less prominently as a result of other factors, such as new websites, changes we make to our website or technical issues with the search engine itself. For example, government health insurance exchange websites appear prominently in algorithmic search results. In addition, search engines have deemed the practices of some companies to be inconsistent with search engine guidelines and decided not to list their website in search result listings at all. If we are listed less prominently in, or removed altogether from, search result listings for any reason, the traffic to our websites would decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we decide to attempt to replace this traffic, we may be required to increase our marketing expenditures, which would also increase our cost of member acquisition and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We purchase paid advertisements on search engines and social media platforms in order to attract consumers to our platforms. We typically pay a search engine for prominent placement of our website when particular health insurance-related terms are searched for on the search engine, regardless of the algorithmic search result listings. The prominence of the placement of our advertisement is determined by a combination of factors, including the amount we are willing to pay and algorithms designed to determine the relevance of our paid advertisement to a particular search term. As with algorithmic search result listings, search engines may revise the algorithms relevant to paid advertisements, and websites other than our ecommerce platform may become more optimized for the algorithms. These changes may result in our having to pay increased amounts to maintain our paid advertisement placement in response to a particular search term. We could also have to pay increased amounts should the market share of major search engines continue to become more concentrated with a single search engine. Additionally, we bid against our competitors, insurance carriers, government health insurance exchanges and others for the display of these paid search engine or social media platform advertisements. We have experienced increased competition for both algorithmic search result listings and for paid advertisements, and that competition increases substantially during the enrollment periods for Medicare related health insurance and for individual and family health insurance. The competition has increased the cost of paid internet search advertising and has increased our marketing and advertising expenses. If paid search advertising costs increase or become cost prohibitive, whether as a result of competition, algorithm changes or otherwise, our advertising expenses could rise significantly or we could reduce or discontinue our paid search advertisements, either of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 26 We rely significantly on marketing partners and our business and operating results would be harmed if we are unable to maintain effective relationships with our existing marketing partners or if we do not establish successful relationships with new marketing partners. We frequently enter into contractual marketing relationships with partners that drive consumers to our ecommerce platform and call centers. These marketing partners include financial and online services companies, affiliate organizations, online advertisers and content providers, and other marketing vendors. We also have relationships with strategic marketing partners, including hospitals and pharmacy chains that promote our Medicare platforms to their customers as well as pharmacy service providers and other affinity groups. We compensate many of our marketing partners for their referrals on a submitted health insurance application basis and, if they are licensed to sell health insurance, may share a percentage of the commission we earn from the health insurance carrier for each member referred by the marketing partner. The success of our relationship is dependent on a number of factors, including but not limited to the continued positive market presence, reputation and growth of the marketing partner, the effectiveness of the marketing partner in marketing our website and services, the compliance of each marketing partner with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines, and the contractual terms we negotiate with our marketing partners, including the marketing fees we agree to pay. We depend on our marketing partners for a large number of quality referrals to keep our health insurance agents productive. If our marketing partners fail to deliver effective and/or timely marketing campaigns, especially during the Medicare annual enrollment period, our business and financial condition could be harmed. While we have relationships with a large number of marketing partners, we depend upon referrals from a limited number of marketing partners for a significant portion of the submitted applications we receive from our marketing partner customer acquisition channel. Given our reliance on our marketing partners, our business operating results and financial condition would be harmed if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with these companies, if we fail to establish successful relationships with new marketing partners, if we experience competition in our receipt of referrals from high volume marketing partners, or if we are required to pay increased amounts to our marketing partners. Competition for referrals from our marketing partners has increased particularly during the enrollment periods for Medicare-related health insurance and individual and family health insurance. We may lose marketing partner referrals if our competitors pay marketing partners more than we do or be forced to pay increased fees to our marketing partners, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we lose marketing partner referrals during the Medicare or individual and family health insurance enrollment periods, the adverse impact on our business would be particularly pronounced. In addition, the promulgation of laws, regulations or guidelines, or the interpretation of existing laws, regulations and guidelines, by state departments of insurance or by CMS, could cause our relationships with our marketing partners to change or be in non-compliance with those laws, regulations and guidelines. CMS proposed rules in January 2022 which, if adopted, would require us and our marketing partners to implement additional verbal and written disclaimers. These proposed rules would also require us to implement additional oversight measures over our marketing partners, beginning with the 2022 annual enrollment period for enrollments effective as of January 1, 2023 and later. If these proposed rules are adopted, we may incur additional costs to generate and convert leads from our marketing partners, as well as additional administrative costs, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, we are required to file marketing partner marketing materials relating to Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans with CMS, and health insurance carriers must review and approve the marketing materials. Recent changes to the CMS marketing guidelines have resulted in a more complicated and time-consuming process for marketing material filing and the need to file a significantly greater number of marketing partners' marketing materials with CMS. If our marketing partners' marketing materials do not comply with the CMS marketing guidelines or other Medicare program related laws, rules and regulations, such non-compliance could result in our losing the ability to receive referrals of individuals interested in purchasing Medicare-related plans from that marketing material or being delayed in doing so. In the event that CMS or a health insurance carrier requires changes to, disapproves or delays approval of these materials, we could lose a significant source of Medicare plan demand and the operations of our Medicare business could be adversely affected. We also have relationships with hospital systems and pharmacy chains that utilize 27 aspects of our platform and tools. Our relationships with these hospital systems and pharmacy chains result in the referral of a significant number of individuals to us who are interested in purchasing Medicare-related health insurance plans. If federal or state authorities were to change existing laws, regulations or guidelines, or interpret existing laws, regulations or guidelines, to prohibit these arrangements, or if hospital systems or pharmacy partners otherwise decided to no longer utilize aspects of our platform and tools, we could experience a significant decline in the number of Medicare-eligible individuals who are referred to our platforms and customer care centers, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate and could fall short of expectations. Our operating results are likely to fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, including the factors described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, many of which are outside of our control. For example and among these factors, the assumptions underlying our estimates of commission revenue as required by ASC 606 may vary significantly over time. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance, particularly in light of the fact that our business and industry are undergoing substantial change as a result of health care reform, competition, shifts in carrier and regulator priorities and initiatives we determine to pursue. If our revenue or operating results differ from our guidance or fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. In the past, when our revenue and operating results differed from our guidance and the expectations of investors or securities analysts, the price of our common stock was impacted. If commission reports we receive from carriers are inaccurate or not sent to us in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed and we may not recognize trends in our membership. We rely on health insurance carriers to timely and accurately report the amount of commissions earned by us, and we calculate our commission revenue, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our marketing and other operating efforts based on the reports we receive from health insurance carriers. There have been instances where we have determined that plan cancellation data reported to us by a health insurance carrier has not been accurate. The extent to which health insurance carriers are inaccurate in their reporting of plan cancellations could cause us to change our cancellation estimates, which could adversely impact our revenue. We have designed controls to assess the completeness and accuracy of the data received, whereby we apply judgment and make estimates based on historical data and current trends to independently determine whether or not carriers are accurately reporting commissions due to us. We also operate procedures with carriers on an ongoing basis whereby potential under or over reporting is reconciled and discrepancies are resolved. For instance, we reconcile information health insurance carriers provide to us and may determine that we were not historically paid commissions owed to us, which would cause us to have underestimated our membership. Conversely, health insurance carriers may require us to return commission payments paid in a prior period due to plan cancellations for members we previously estimated as being active. To the extent that health insurance carriers understate or fail to accurately report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, our estimates of constrained LTV may be adversely impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any inaccuracies in the reporting from and reconciliations with insurance carriers may also impact our estimates of constrained LTV or our estimates of commission revenue for future periods which is based on historical trends, including trends relating to contracted commission rates and expected health insurance plan cancellation. 28 We do not receive information about membership cancellations from our health insurance carriers directly, which makes it difficult for us to determine the impact of current conditions on our membership retention and to accurately estimate membership as of a specific date. We depend on health insurance carriers and others for data related to our membership. For instance, with respect to health insurance plans other than small business health insurance, health insurance carriers do not directly report member cancellations to us, resulting in the need for us to determine cancellations using payment data that carriers provide. We infer cancellations from this payment data by analyzing whether payments from members have ceased for a period of time, and we may not learn of a cancellation for several months. The majority of our members who terminate their plans do so by discontinuing their insurance premium payments to the health insurance carrier and do not inform us of the cancellation. With respect to our small business membership, many groups notify the carrier directly with respect to increases or decreases in group size and policy cancellations. Our insurance carrier partners often do not communicate this information to us, and it often takes a significant amount of time for us to learn about small business group cancellations and changes in our membership within the group itself. We often are not made aware of policy cancellations until the time of the groups annual renewal. Given the number of months required to observe non-payment of commissions in order to confirm cancellations, we estimate the number of members who are active on health insurance plans as of a specified date. After we have estimated membership for a period, we may receive information from health insurance carriers that would have impacted the estimate if we had received the information prior to the date of estimation. We may receive commission payments or other information that indicates that a member who was not included in our estimates for a prior period was in fact an active member at that time, or that a member who was included in our estimates was in fact not an active member of ours. As a result of the Medicare annual enrollment and other open enrollment periods, we may not receive information from our carriers on as timely a basis due to the significant increase in health insurance transaction volume and for other reasons, which could impair the accuracy of our membership estimates. For these and other reasons, including if current trends in membership cancellation are inconsistent with past cancellation trends that we use to estimate our membership or if carriers subsequently report changes to the commission payments that they previously reported to us, our actual membership could be different from our estimates, perhaps materially. If our actual membership is different from our estimates, the constrained LTV component of our revenue recognition could also be inaccurate, including as a result of an inaccurate estimate of the average amount of time our members maintain their health insurance plans. As a result of the delay we experience in receiving information about our membership, it is difficult for us to determine with any certainty the impact of current conditions on our membership retention. For example, in the past our estimated membership has been higher than our actual membership, because we experienced increased membership cancellation compared to the historical cancellation rates we used to estimate our membership. We were not able to observe the increased membership cancellations that occurred during the first quarter of 2020 until after we reported our estimated membership for the period. Various circumstances, including market-related factors such as changes in timing of enrollment periods and other factors specific to our business, could cause the assumptions and estimates that we make in connection with estimating our membership and constrained LTV to be inaccurate, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our carrier advertising and sponsorship program may not be successful. We develop, host and maintain carrier dedicated Medicare plan websites and may undertake other marketing and advertising initiatives or perform other services through our Medicare plan advertising program. We also allow health insurance carriers to purchase advertising space for non-Medicare products on our website through our sponsorship program. To the extent that economic conditions, health care reform or other factors impact the amount health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising, our advertising and sponsorship program will be adversely impacted. In addition, since we maintain relationships with a limited number of health insurance carriers to sell their Medicare plans, our Medicare plan-related advertising revenue is concentrated in a small number of health 29 insurance carriers and our ability to generate Medicare plan-related advertising revenue would be harmed by the termination or non-renewal of any of these relationships as well as by a reduction in the amount a health insurance carrier is willing to pay for these services. Moreover, in light of the regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, and given that these regulations are often unclear, change frequently and are subject to changing interpretations, we may in the future not be permitted to sell Medicare plan-related advertising services. If we are not successful in these areas or these factors are unfavorable to us, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The success of our sponsorship and advertising program depends on a number of factors, including the amount health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising services, the effectiveness of the sponsorship and advertising program as a cost-effective method for carriers to obtain additional members, consumer demand for the health insurance carriers product, our ability to attract consumers to our ecommerce platform, our call centers or the dedicated Medicare plan websites and convert those consumers into members, and the cost, benefit and brand recognition of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the advertising, among others. In addition, increased carrier focus on the quality of enrollments and reduction in member complaints could adversely impact our ability to successfully negotiate and operate our sponsorship and advertising programs. If we are not successful in these areas or these factors are unfavorable to us, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our business may be harmed if we do not enroll subsidy-eligible individuals through government-run health insurance exchanges efficiently. In order to offer the qualified health plans that individuals and families must purchase to receive Affordable Care Act subsidies, agents and brokers must meet certain conditions, such as receiving permission to do so from the applicable government health insurance exchange, entering into or maintaining an agreement with the health insurance exchange or a partner of the exchange, ensuring that the enrollment and subsidy application is completed through the health insurance exchange and complying with privacy, security and other standards. In the event Internet-based agents and brokers such as us use the Internet for completion of qualified health plan selection purposes, their websites may be required to meet certain additional requirements. To the extent we enroll individuals and families into qualified health plans, we do so predominantly through the Federally Facilitated Marketplace, or FFM, which runs all or part of the health insurance exchange in 33 states, using a third-party partnership. We may experience difficulty in satisfying the conditions and requirements to offer qualified health plans to our existing members and new potential members, and in getting them enrolled through the FFM. If we are not able to satisfy these conditions and requirements, or if we are not able to successfully adopt and maintain solutions that allow us to enroll large numbers of individuals and families in qualified plans over the Internet both during and outside of open enrollment periods, we will lose existing members and new members, and may incur additional expense, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Beginning in the open enrollment period that occurred in the fourth quarter of 2018, CMS adopted a new enhanced direct enrollment pathway for CMS-approved partners to enroll individuals into qualified health plans through the FFM and complete all steps in the eligibility and enrollment process on a single website. Before enhanced direct enrollment partners are approved, extensive security and privacy reviews are conducted by an independent third-party auditor and CMS reviews the audit results to ensure the entity satisfies numerous additional privacy and security standards. We entered into an agreement to outsource certain aspects of the enrollment process for qualified health plans to a third party in light of the expense and burden associated with the additional requirements. However, if we do not develop the ability to satisfy the requirements to use the improved qualified health plan enrollment process in the future, or if we are unsuccessful in entering into or maintaining a relationship with a third party who is approved to use the process, we may not be able to enroll individuals into qualified health plans through the FFM or could be required to use an inferior process to do so, which could cause a reduction in our individual and family health insurance plan membership and commission revenue. In addition, if we are 30 not able to adopt or contract with and maintain solutions to integrate with government-run health insurance exchanges or if the health insurance exchange websites and other processes are unstable or not consumer friendly, efficient and compatible with the process we have adopted for enrolling individuals and families into qualified health plans through the exchanges, we would not be successful in retaining and acquiring members, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The FFM may at any time cease allowing us, or our third-party partner, to enroll individuals in qualified health plans or change the requirements for doing so, or relevant government regulations or agencies may prevent us from efficiently working with our third-party partner, including timely receiving and using data from our third-party partner. If the FFM ceases allowing us or our third-party partner to enroll individuals, if the FFM platform does not function properly or if we are prevented from efficiently working with our third-party partner, our ability to retain existing members and add new members could be negatively impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There are many risks associated with our operations in China. A portion of our operations is conducted by our subsidiary in China. Among other things, we use employees in China to maintain and update our ecommerce platform and perform certain tasks within our finance and customer care and enrollment functions. We rely on the Internet to communicate with our subsidiary in China. Our business would be harmed if our ability to communicate over the Internet with these employees failed, and we were prevented from promptly updating our software or implementing other changes to our database and systems, among other things. From time-to-time we receive inquiries from health insurance carriers relating to our operations in China and the security measures we have implemented to protect data that our employees in China may be able to access. As a part of these inquiries, we have implemented additional security measures relating to our operations in China. We may be required to implement further security measures to continue aspects of our operations in China or health insurance carriers may require us to bring aspects of our operations in China back to the United States, which could be time consuming and expensive and harm our operating results and financial condition. Health insurance carriers may also terminate our relationship due to concerns surrounding protection of data that our employees in China are able to access, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations in China also expose us to different and unfamiliar laws, rules and regulations, including different intellectual property laws, which are not as protective of our intellectual property as the laws in the United States. United States and Chinese trade laws may also impose restrictions on the importation of programming or technology to or from the United States. We are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, privacy and data security laws, labor laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions in China. In recent years, China has adopted laws regulating cybersecurity and data protection. The cybersecurity law adopted on June 1, 2017, along with its implementing regulations, applies to the establishment, operation, maintenance and usage of networks within China and the supervision and management of cybersecurity. Under the law, network operators are required to comply with certain tiered security obligations based on the networks relative impact on national security, social order, public interest and individuals privacy rights. Pursuant to the draft regulations, we may be required to perform self-assessments, obtain third party certifications, report cybersecurity incidents and make filings with public security authorities. We could also be subject to security inspections and evaluations by public security authorities and be restricted to use only network products and services that meet certain standards based on the level of risk applicable to us. In addition, a new data security law became effective on September 1, 2021. The new data security law applies to the usage, collection and protection of data within China and imposes data security obligations and restrictions on transfers of certain data outside of China, including prohibition on providing any data stored in China to law enforcement authorities or judicial bodies outside of China without prior Chinese government approval. There remains considerable uncertainty as to how both the cybersecurity law and data security law will be applied, and the regulatory environment continues to evolve. Such laws, regulations and standards are complex, ambiguous and subject to change or interpretation, which create uncertainty regarding compliance. Compliance with these laws and regulations could cause us to incur 31 substantial costs or require us to change our business operations in China. Violation of applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our brand, affect our relationship with our health insurance carriers, and could result in regulatory enforcement actions and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and fines, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in Chinas economic or political condition. We have experienced greater competition for qualified personnel in China, which has raised market salaries and increased our compensation costs related to employees in China. If competition for personnel increases further, our compensation expenses could rise considerably or, if we determine to not increase compensation levels, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in China may be impaired, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These risks could cause us to incur increased expenses and could harm our ability to effectively and successfully manage our operations in China. Moreover, any significant or prolonged deterioration in the relationship between United States and China could adversely affect our operations in China. Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China. The escalation of trade tensions has increased the risk associated with our operations in China. Either the United States or the Chinese government may sever our ability to communicate with our China operations or may take actions that force us to close our operations in China. We employ a large number of our technology and content employees in China, and we have other employees in China that support our business. Any sudden disruption of our operations in China, including any disruption as a result of the Chinese government's COVID-19 related policies, would adversely impact our business. If we are required to move aspects of our operations from China to our offices in the United States as a result of political instability, changes in laws, inquiries from health insurance carriers or for other reasons, we could incur increased expenses, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, including legal, regulatory and social responses thereto, may have on our business. Global climate change has added, and will continue to add, to the unpredictability, frequency and severity of natural disasters, including but not limited to hurricanes, tornadoes, freezes, droughts, other storms and fires in certain parts of the world. In response, a number of legal and regulatory measures and social initiatives have been introduced in an effort to reduce greenhouse gas and other carbon emissions that are chief contributors to global climate change. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions will have on our business, though extreme weather events could impact our facilities, technological assets, business continuity and reputation. The legal, regulatory and social responses to climate change could also adversely affect our results of business, operating results and financial conditions. Our success in selling Medicare-related health insurance will depend upon a number of factors, some of which are outside of our control. Our success in selling Medicare-related health insurance is dependent upon a number of factors, including: our ability to continue to adapt our ecommerce platforms to market Medicare plans, including our development or acquisition of marketing tools and features important in the sale of Medicare plans online and the effective modification of our user experience; our success in marketing to Medicare-eligible individuals, including television advertising, online marketing and direct mail marketing, and in entering into and maintaining marketing partner relationships to drive Medicare-eligible individuals to our ecommerce platforms or customer care centers on a cost-effective basis; 32 our ability to hire and retain additional employees with experience in Medicare, including our ability to develop Medicare sales expertise in our customer care centers; our ability to implement and maintain an effective information technology infrastructure for the sale of Medicare plans, including the infrastructure and systems that support our websites, call centers and call recording; our ability to leverage technology in order to sell, and otherwise become more efficient at selling, Medicare-related plans over the telephone; our ability to comply with the numerous, complex and changing laws, regulations, guidelines and policies of the federal and state government, including CMS guidelines and policies relating to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans and health care reform; and the effectiveness with which our competitors market the availability of Medicare plans from sources other than our ecommerce platforms. As a result of these and other factors, we may prove unsuccessful in marketing Medicare plans and acting as a health insurance agent in connection with their sale, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if our efforts to market Medicare plans during enrollment periods were impeded due to lack of timely health insurance carrier or CMS approval, or for other reasons, the impact on our business, operating results and financial condition would be significantly greater given the seasonality of our Medicare-related revenue, membership acquisition and expenses and the fact that much of the sales of Medicare plans occur during this period. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous, complex and frequently changing laws, regulations and guidelines, and non-compliance with or changes in laws, regulations and guidelines could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous laws, regulations and guidelines at the federal and state level. The marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are principally regulated by CMS but are also subject to state laws. The marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans are principally regulated on a state-by-state basis by state departments of insurance. The laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans are numerous, ambiguous and complex, and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. We have altered, and likely will have to continue to alter, our marketing and sales process to comply with these laws, regulations and guidelines. Health insurance carriers whose Medicare plans we sell approve our websites, our call center scripts and some of our marketing material. We must receive these approvals in order for us market and sell Medicare plans to Medicare-eligible individuals as a health insurance agent. We are also required to file many of these materials on a regular basis with CMS. In addition, certain aspects of our Medicare plan marketing partner relationships have been in the past, and will be in the future, subjected to CMS and health insurance carrier review. CMS, state departments of insurance or health insurance carriers may determine to object to or not to approve aspects of our online platforms, sales function or marketing material and processes and may determine that certain existing aspects of our Medicare-related business are not in compliance with legal requirements. CMS scrutinizes health insurance carriers whose Medicare plans we sell and those health insurance carriers may be held responsible for actions that we and our agents take, including our marketing material and actions that lead to complaints or disenrollment. We expect that health insurance carriers will be increasingly evaluating broker performance based on quality of their enrollments, including complaints, retention rates, customer satisfaction and volumes. As a result, 33 health insurance carriers may terminate their relationship with us or require us to take other corrective action if our Medicare product sales, marketing and operations are not in compliance or give rise to too many complaints. The termination of or change in our relationship with health insurance carriers for this reason could reduce the products we are able to offer, could result in the loss of commissions for past and future sales and could otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes to the laws, regulations and guidelines relating to the sale of Medicare plans, their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could impact the manner in which we conduct our Medicare business, our ecommerce platforms or our sale of Medicare plans, or we could be prevented from operating aspects of our Medicare revenue generating activities altogether, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from CMS or state departments of insurance regarding our marketing and business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. Inquiries and proceedings initiated by the government could adversely impact our health insurance licenses, require us to pay fines, require us to modify marketing and business practices, result in litigation and otherwise harm our business, operating results or financial condition. In May 2021, CMS changed its process for the submission and approval of marketing materials related to Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. The practical application of the previous process allowed for a lead carrier to handle most of the review and filing of Medicare plan marketing materials with CMS. The new process requires each carrier to approve of each filed marketing material and has resulted in a more complicated and time consuming process to get our marketing material filed with CMS and through the process with carriers. In October 2021, CMS issued new guidance that significantly broadens the types of marketing materials that we are required to file with CMS, including the requirement to file certain generic marketing materials that refer to the benefits or costs of Medicare Advantage or Medicare Part D prescription drug plans but that do not specifically mention a health insurance carrier's name or a specific plan. As a result, we now submit to each Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plan carrier with which we have a relationship a significantly larger number of marketing materials than we have in the past. We may not be able to use certain marketing materials and implement our marketing programs effectively if CMS or a health insurance carrier has comments or disapproves of our marketing materials. If we do not timely file the additional marketing materials with CMS or if health insurance carriers do not adapt to the new CMS requirements or increase the efficiency with which they review our marketing material, it could harm our sales and also harm our ability to efficiently change and implement new or existing marketing material, including call center scripts and our websites, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we or our marketing partners are not successful in timely receiving health insurance carrier or CMS approval of our marketing materials, or if a health insurance carrier refuses to accept enrollments relating to specific materials or marketing endeavors, we could be prevented from implementing our Medicare marketing and sales initiatives, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition, particularly if such delay or non-compliance occurs during the Medicare annual enrollment period or the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period. Changes and developments in the health insurance industry or system could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The United States health insurance system, including the Medicare program, is subject to a changing regulatory environment. The future financial performance of our business will depend in part on our ability to adapt to regulatory developments. For example, the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 and related regulatory reforms have and will continue to change the industry in which we operate in substantial ways. The implementation of health care reform has increased, and could further increase, our competition in the individual and family health insurance market, reduce demand for the health insurance for individuals and families that we sell, decrease the number of health insurance plans that we sell as well as the number of health insurance carriers offering them, cause carriers to increase premiums or reduce commissions and other amounts they pay for our services, any of which could materially harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory changes to the Medicare program could have similar impacts on our Medicare business. The impacts of health care reform on our business included a significant decline in our individual and family plan revenue and membership and other changes in the future could have a similar impact on our Medicare related health 34 insurance business. Our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to adapt to developments in healthcare reform in the United States. Our business depends upon the private sector of the United States health insurance system, which is subject to a changing environment. Changes and developments in the health insurance system and Medicare program in the United States could reduce demand for our services and harm our business. Ongoing healthcare reform efforts and measures may expand the role of government-sponsored coverage, including single payer or so called Medicare-for-All proposals, which could have far-reaching implications for the health insurance industry if enacted. Some proposals would seek to eliminate the private marketplace, while others would expand a government-sponsored option to a larger population. We are unable to predict the full impact of healthcare reform initiatives or other regulatory changes on our operations in light of the uncertainty of whether initiatives will be successful and the uncertainty regarding the terms and timing of any provisions enacted and the impact of any of those provisions on various healthcare and insurance industry participants. Changes to the Medicare program or the broader health insurance system as a result of the change in the balance of power in Congress or as a result of the Biden administration could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the event that laws, regulations or rules that eliminate or reduce private sources of health insurance or Medicare are adopted, the demand for our products could be adversely impacted and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. From time to time we are subject to various legal proceedings which could adversely affect our business. We are, and may in the future become, involved in various legal proceedings and governmental inquiries, including labor and employment-related claims, claims relating to our marketing or sale of health insurance, intellectual property claims and claims relating to our compliance with securities laws. For example, in January 2022 we received a subpoena from the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts, seeking, among other things, information regarding our arrangements with insurance carriers. This inquiry, and any other claims asserted against us, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to address and divert managements attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages and harm our reputation. Our insurance and indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. If we are unsuccessful in our defense in these legal proceedings, we may be forced to pay damages or fines, enter into consent decrees, stop offering our services or change our business practices, any of which would harm our business, operating results or financial condition. Our success in selling health insurance is dependent in part on the actions of federal and state governments. Changes in the laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance could harm our business and operating results. The laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance are complex and subject to change, and future changes may be adverse to our business. For example, a long-standing provision in most applicable state laws that we believe is advantageous to our business is that once health insurance premiums are set by the carrier and approved by state regulators, they are fixed and not generally subject to negotiation or discounting by insurance companies or agents. Additionally, state regulations generally prohibit carriers, agents and brokers from providing financial incentives, such as rebates, to their members in connection with the sale of health insurance. As a result, we do not currently compete with carriers or other agents and brokers on the price of the health insurance plans offered on our website. If these regulations change, we could be forced to reduce prices or provide rebates or other incentives for the health insurance plans sold through our ecommerce platform, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, a federal law that went into effect in December 2021 requires disclosure of commissions paid to us to the purchaser of small business, major medical individual and family and short-term health insurance plans. It is unclear what 35 impact the law will have, but it could impact consumers' demand for our services or cause health insurance carriers to lower our commission rates, which could reduce our revenue. States and federal governments may adopt laws and regulations that are adverse to our business, including laws and regulations that impact the types of health insurance coverage available to consumers, the product features and benefits, our marketing and selling of plans and the role and compensation of agents and brokers in the sale of health insurance. Changes to the rules and regulations that apply to our sale of Medicare related health insurance are more likely under the Biden administration compared to the previous administration. CMS may change the rules and regulations applicable to us in connection with our Medicare plan business, and those changes could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The Biden administration has also indicated that it is in support of changes to the Affordable Care Act. It is difficult to predict what changes the Biden administration may make in the rules and regulations relating to our sale of the products that we sell, but the changes could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to comply with the numerous laws and regulations that are applicable to the sale of health insurance, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are required to maintain a valid license in each state in which we transact health insurance business and to adhere to sales, documentation and administration practices specific to that state. We must maintain our health insurance licenses to continue selling plans and to continue to receive commissions from health insurance carriers. In addition, each employee who transacts health insurance business on our behalf must maintain a valid license in one or more states. Because we do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, compliance with health insurance-related laws, rules and regulations is difficult and imposes significant costs on our business. Each jurisdictions insurance department typically has the power, among other things, to: grant, limit, suspend and revoke licenses to transact insurance business; conduct inquiries into the insurance-related activities and conduct of agents and agencies; require and regulate disclosure in connection with the sale and solicitation of health insurance; authorize how, by which personnel and under what circumstances insurance premiums can be quoted and published and an insurance policy sold; approve which entities can be paid commissions from carriers and the circumstances under which they may be paid; regulate the content of insurance-related advertisements, including web pages, and other marketing practices; approve policy forms, require specific benefits and benefit levels and regulate premium rates; impose fines and other penalties; and impose continuing education requirements. Due to the complexity, periodic modification and differing interpretations of insurance laws and regulations, we may not have always been, and we may not always be, in compliance with them. New laws, regulations and guidelines also may not be compatible with the sale of health insurance over the Internet or with various aspects of our platform or manner of marketing or selling health insurance plans. Failure to comply with insurance laws, regulations and guidelines or other laws and regulations applicable to our business could result in significant liability, additional department of insurance licensing requirements, required modification of our advertising and business practices, changes to our existing 36 technology or platforms, the limitation, suspension and/or revocation of our licenses to sell health insurance, termination of our relationship with health insurance carriers and loss of commissions and/or our inability to sell health insurance plans, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status, business or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm consumer, marketing partner or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our brand. Our business is subject to security risks and, if we experience a successful cyberattack, a security breach or are otherwise unable to safeguard the confidentiality and integrity of the data we hold, including sensitive personal information, our business will be harmed. Our business is also subject to emerging privacy laws being passed at the state level that create unique compliance challenges. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential and personally identifiable information of consumers and the transmission of certain personal information to their chosen health insurance carriers and to the government. For example, we collect names, addresses, credit card and social security numbers and health information such as information regarding consumers' prescription drugs and providers. As a result, we are subject to various state and federal laws and contractual requirements regarding the access, use and disclosure of personal information. We also hold a significant amount of personal information relating to our current and former employees. Despite our taking precautions, we cannot guarantee that our facilities and systems, and those of our third-party service providers, will be free of security breaches, cyberattacks, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, malware, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors or other similar events. Compliance with state and federal privacy-related laws, particularly new state legislation such as the California Consumer Privacy Act, and increasingly robust industry standard security frameworks will result in cost increases due to an increased need for privacy compliance, oversight and monitoring, and the development of new processes to effectuate and demonstrate compliance. The effects of potential non-compliance by us or third party service providers, and enforcement actions, may result in increased costs to our business and reputational harm. The privacy legislation landscape is rapidly evolving on a state-by-state basis that creates challenges for businesses to comply with the new legal obligations in a systematic fashion. For example, Virginia, Colorado and California have new privacy legislation that will come into effect in 2023; however, these laws have differing consumer rights and business obligations, differing obligations on data controllers and differing enforcement mechanisms. These new legal operations may change the way we conduct our business and may harm our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to expend significant amounts and other resources to protect against privacy and security breaches or to mitigate and remediate problems caused by privacy or security breaches. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures preemptively. Additionally, our third party service providers may cause security breaches for which we are responsible. Any compromise or perceived compromise of our security or the security of one of our vendors could damage our reputation, cause the termination of relationships with government-run health insurance exchanges and our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers, reduce demand for our services and subject us to significant liability and expense as well as regulatory action and lawsuits, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic generally is increasing the attack surface available to criminals, as more companies and individuals work remotely and otherwise work online. Consequently, the risk of a cybersecurity incident has increased. We cannot provide assurances that our preventative efforts, or those of our vendors or service providers, will be successful. In the event that additional data privacy or security laws are 37 implemented, or our health insurance carrier or other partners determine to impose requirements on us relating to data privacy security, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could result in our inability to sell health insurance plans in a particular jurisdiction or for a particular health insurance carrier or subject us to liability for non-compliance, any of which would damage our business, operating results and financial condition. For instance, health insurance carriers may require us to be compliant with additional security standards in order to accept credit card information from consumers or require us to comply with additional privacy and security standards to do business with us at all. Compliance with privacy and security standards is regularly assessed, and we may not always be compliant with the standards. If we are not in compliance, we may not be able to accept credit card information from consumers, and our relationship with health insurance carriers could be adversely impacted or terminated, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, complaints or negative publicity related to the information on our website or that we otherwise provide could harm our business and operating results. We provide information on our website, through our customer care centers, in our marketing materials and in other ways regarding health insurance in general and the health insurance plans we market and sell, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, provider networks, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable amount of insurance plan information on our website. We also use the information provided on our website and otherwise collected by us to publish reports designed to educate consumers, facilitate public debate, and facilitate reform at the state and federal level. If the information we provide on our website, through our customer care centers, in our marketing materials or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, or if we do not properly assist individuals and businesses in purchasing health insurance, members, health insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages or require us to take corrective actions, our relationships with health insurance carriers could be terminated or impaired and regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, force us to stop using our websites, marketing material or certain aspects of them, revoke our licenses to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions, which could result in our loss of our commission revenue and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we and our health insurance carrier partners have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. We have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from health insurance carriers, CMS or state departments of insurance regarding our marketing and business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. We have experienced an increased rate of complaints filed directly with CMS from Medicare beneficiaries enrolled by us and have taken actions to address the quality of our enrollments and to improve our customer experience. If the actions we take do not effectively reduce the rate of complaints and improve our retention rates, our relationship with health insurance carriers could be modified or terminated, our Medicare commission and advertising revenue could decline, and we may incur significant expenses without realizing the value of our investment. Even if we are successful in reducing the rate of complaints, any initiatives we take to address retention could reduce our number of enrollments and conversion rates, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Also, our sales of short-term health insurance plans that lack the same benefits as major medical health insurance plans may increase the risk that we receive complaints regarding our marketing and business practices due to the potential for consumer confusion between short-term health insurance and major medical health insurance. In addition, these types of claims could be time-consuming and expensive to defend, could divert our managements attention and other resources, and could cause a loss of confidence in our services. As a result, whether or not we are able to successfully resolve these claims, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 38 Our business could be harmed if we are unable to contact our consumers or market the availability of our products through specific channels. We use email and telephone, among other channels, to market our services to potential members and as the primary means of communicating with our existing members. The laws and regulations governing the use of email and telephone calls for marketing purposes continue to evolve, and changes in technology, the marketplace or consumer preferences may lead to the adoption of additional laws or regulations or changes in interpretation of existing laws or regulations. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send email or telephone messages to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of email, Internet service providers, e-mail service providers and others attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited email, commonly known as spam. Many Internet and e-mail service providers have relationships with organizations whose purpose it is to detect and notify the Internet and e-mail service providers of entities that the organization believes is sending unsolicited e-mail. If an Internet or e-mail service provider identifies email from us as spam as a result of reports from these organizations or otherwise, we can be placed on a restricted list that will block our email to members or potential members. We use telephones to communicate with customers and prospective customers and some of these communications may be subject to the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or TCPA, and other telemarketing laws. The TCPA and other laws, including state laws, relating to telemarketing restrict our ability to market using the telephone in certain respects. For instance, the TCPA prohibits us from using an automatic telephone dialing system to make certain telephone calls to consumers without prior express consent. We have policies in place to comply with the TCPA and other telemarketing laws. However, we have in the past and may in the future become subject to claims that we have violated the TCPA. The TCPA provides for statutory damages of $500 for each violation and $1,500 for each willful violation. In the event that we were found to have violated the TCPA, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, telephone carriers may block or put consumer warnings on calls originating from call centers. Consumers increasingly screen their incoming emails and telephone calls, including by using screening tools and warnings, and therefore our members or potential members may not reliably receive our emails or telephone messages. If we are unable to communicate effectively by email or telephone with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, blockage, screening technologies or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Risks Related to Finance, Accounting and Tax Matters Our operating results will be impacted by factors that impact our estimate of the constrained LTV of commissions per approved member. We recognize revenue for plans approved during the period by applying the latest estimated constrained LTVs for that product. Constrained LTVs are estimates and are based on a number of assumptions, which include, but are not limited to, estimates of the conversion rates of approved members into paying members, forecasted average plan duration and forecasted commissions we expect to receive per approved member's plan. These assumptions are based on historical trends and require significant judgment by our management in interpreting those trends and in applying the constraints. Changes in our historical trends will result in changes to our constrained LTV estimates in future periods and therefore could adversely affect our revenue and financial results in those future periods. As a result, negative changes in the factors upon which we estimate constrained LTVs, such as reduced conversion of approved members to paying members, increased health insurance plan terminations or a reduction in the lifetime commission amounts we expect to receive for selling the plan to a member or other changes could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in LTV may result in an increase or a decrease to revenue and a corresponding increase or decrease to commission receivables. 39 In addition, if we ultimately receive commission payments that are less than the amount we estimated when we recognized commission revenue, we would need to write off the remaining commission receivable balance, which would adversely impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. The rate at which approved members become paying members is a significant factor in our estimation of constrained LTVs. To the extent we experience a decline in the rate at which approved members turn into our paying members, our business, operating results, and financial condition would be harmed. The forecasted average plan duration is another important factor in our estimation of constrained LTV. When a plan is canceled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy, we no longer receive the related commission payment. Our forecasted average plan duration and health insurance plan termination rate are calculated based on our historical data by plan type. As a result, a reduction in our forecasted average plan duration or an inability to produce accurate forecasted average plan duration may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Commission rates are also a significant factor in our estimation of constrained LTVs. The commission rates we receive are impacted by a variety of factors, including the particular health insurance plans chosen by our members, the carriers offering those plans, our members states of residence, the laws and regulations in those jurisdictions, the average premiums of plans purchased through us and health care reform. Our commission revenue per member has in the past decreased, and could in the future decrease, as a result of reductions in contractual commission rates, a change in the mix of carriers whose products we sell during a given period, and increased health insurance plan termination rates, all of which are beyond our control and may occur on short notice. To the extent these and other factors cause our commission revenue per member to decline, our revenue may decline and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Given that Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance purchasing is concentrated during enrollment periods, we may experience a shift in the mix of Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance products selected by our members over a short period of time. Any reduction in our average commission revenue per member caused by such a shift or otherwise would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The determination of constraints is also a factor that requires significant management judgment. Constraints are applied to LTVs for revenue recognition purposes and help ensure that the total estimated lifetime commissions expected to be collected from an approved member's plan are recognized as revenue only to the extent that is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with future commissions receivable from the plan is subsequently resolved. We determine the constraint for each product by comparing prior calculations of LTV to actual cash received and review the reasons for any variations. We then apply judgment in assessing whether the difference between historical cash collections and LTV is representative of differences that can be expected in future periods. We also analyze whether circumstances have changed and consider any known or potential modifications to the inputs into LTV in light of the factors that can impact the amount of cash expected to be collected in future periods including but not limited to commission rates, carrier mix, plan duration, changes in laws and regulations, and cancellations of insurance plans offered by health insurance carriers with which we have a relationship. We evaluate the appropriateness of our constraints on an ongoing basis, and we update our assumptions when we observe a sufficient amount of evidence that would suggest that the long-term expectation underlying the assumptions has changed. If we underestimate the initial constraint applied to LTVs, we might be required to increase the constraint or record an impairment in a future period which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 40 Our debt obligations contain restrictions that impact our business and expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. On February 28, 2022, we entered into a term loan credit agreement with Blue Torch Finance LLC and other lenders, or the Term Loan Credit Agreement, which provided us with $70 million in term loans. In connection with entering into the Term Loan Credit Agreement, we terminated our credit agreement with Royal Bank of Canada and other lenders that provided us with an up to $75 million revolving credit facility. The Term Loan Credit Agreement contains certain mandatory prepayment triggers and imposes certain covenants and restrictions on our business and our ability to obtain additional financing. The Term Loan Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, including covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Term Loan Credit Agreement also contains restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make investments, make certain restricted payments, make fundamental changes, sell assets, transact with affiliates, enter into burdensome agreements, prepay certain indebtedness or modify our organizational documents, in each case, subject to certain exceptions. Further, the Term Loan Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to (x) maintain a minimum level of liquidity as of the end of each month and (y) maintain a ratio such that the outstanding amount of obligations under the Term Loan Credit Agreement at the end of any month does not exceed 50% of the value of certain commissions receivable as of the end of such month. The events of default under the Term Loan Credit Agreement include, among other things and subject to grace periods in certain instances, payment defaults, cross defaults with certain other material indebtedness, breaches of covenants or representations and warranties, changes in control of our company, certain bankruptcy and insolvency events with respect to us and our subsidiaries, a restriction on all or a material portion of our business and the indictment of us or any subsidiary (or any senior officer thereof), or criminal proceedings against the same, which could result in a forfeiture of a material portion of our and our subsidiaries properties. If we experience a decline in cash flow due to any of the factors described in this Risk Factors section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest and principal amounts due on our indebtedness and meeting the financial covenants set forth in our Term Loan Credit Agreement. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under the Term Loan Credit Agreement, or if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, we could default under our Term Loan Credit Agreement. Any default that is not waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Term Loan Credit Agreement, an increase in the applicable interest rate under the Term Loan Credit Agreement, and would permit our lender to exercise rights and remedies with respect to all of the collateral that is securing the Term Loan Credit Agreement, which includes substantially all of our assets. Any such default could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. Even if we comply with all of the applicable covenants, the restrictions on the conduct of our business could materially adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to the business. Even if the Term Loan Credit Agreement were terminated, additional debt we could incur in the future may subject us to similar or additional covenants, which could place restrictions on the operation of our business. Operating and growing our business is likely to require additional capital, and if capital is not available to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer. Operating and growing our business is expected to require further investments in our business. We have generated negative cash from operating activities and may continue to generate negative cash from operating activities in the future. We are likely to raise additional capital through debt or equity financing, and plan to implement our transformation initiatives, which are discussed in the section of this 41 report titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations2022 Business InitiativesTransformation Initiatives. These transformation initiatives may not be successful in reducing expenses, and may result in other negative effects on our business, which could result in us requiring additional capital. Further, we may be presented with opportunities that we want to pursue, and business or other challenges may present themselves, any of which could cause us to require additional capital. If we seek to raise funds through debt or equity financing, those funds may prove to be unavailable, may only be available on terms that are not acceptable to us or may result in significant dilution to our stockholders or higher levels of leverage. Our Term Loan Credit Agreement and our investment agreement with Echelon Health SPV, LP, or H.I.G, contain restrictions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue certain types of equity securities with rights and preferences senior to or pari passu with our Series A Preferred Stock, make certain types of investments or obtain additional financing. As of the date of this report, pursuant to the terms of our investment agreement with H.I.G., we must obtain the consent of H.I.G. in order to incur any indebtedness, which could limit our ability to obtain additional financing until our adjusted EBITDA for the trailing four quarters increases. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities or challenges could be harmed, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. We have a complex business organization. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting