Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Industry Background The purchase of health insurance is a high-stakes decision for a consumer. Historically it has been a complex, time-consuming and paper-intensive process. The complexity and large number of plan options with a variety of coverage, provider networks, and out-of-pocket cost combinations can make it difficult to make informed health insurance decisions. The Internets convenient, information-rich and interactive nature offers the opportunity to provide consumers with more organized and transparent information, a broader choice of plans and a more efficient and accurate process than have typically been available from traditional health insurance distribution channels. We believe that the Internet is becoming an increasingly important channel for researching and enrolling into health insurance plans, similar to other consumer-focused industries such as travel, financial services and shopping. 8 Table of Contents Medicare is a federal program that provides persons sixty-five years of age and older, and some persons under the age of sixty-five who meet certain conditions, with hospital and medical insurance benefits. Medicare beneficiaries choose between Medicare Fee-For-Service and Medicare Advantage plans. Medicare Fee-For-Service is a government plan where the consumer is responsible for select health care related payments with no limit on out-of-pocket expenses and can be used at any doctor or hospital that accepts Medicare. To increase coverage, Medicare Fee-For-Service beneficiaries can purchase commercially offered Medicare Supplement plans. Medicare Advantage is an alternative to Medicare Fee-For-Service that provides health and drug coverage in a single offering from private health insurance carriers that CMS has contracted with under the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug programs. Under these programs, the government pays health insurance carriers per enrollee to cover health care expenses rather than the government making payments directly to providers under Medicare Fee-For-Service. Medicare Advantage plans are required to cover the same services as Medicare Fee-For-Service and usually cover a variety of other health care services and include a cap on out-of-pocket spending for the consumer. In many cases, Medicare Advantage plans only allow consumers to use doctors who are in the specific plans network. Individual and family products are typically purchased by consumers under 65 years of age that do not have coverage through their employer. Small business group health insurance addresses the health insurance needs of businesses typically with 100 or fewer employees and is evolving towards products such as Individual Coverage Health Reimbursement Arrangements (ICHRA), which are available to businesses with employees of any size. Individual, family and small business health insurance has historically been sold by independent insurance agents and, to a lesser degree, directly by insurance companies. Many of these agents are self-employed or work for small agencies, and they typically service only their local communities. In addition, many of these agents sell health insurance from a limited number of insurance carriers (in some cases only one), resulting in a reduced selection of plans for the consumer. Our Growth Strategies We believe that our consumer-centric omnichannel distribution model provides us competitive strengths in customer engagement and health insurance distribution and creates opportunities for growth in our core Medicare business and in other areas of the health insurance market. We intend to pursue the following strategies to further advance our business. Pursue Deliberate Enrollment and Revenue Growth In 2022, we purposefully slowed down our enrollment volume and revenue growth as we worked to implement a number of transformation initiatives aimed at increasing the effectiveness of our sales and marketing organizations and rationalizing our cost structure. In 2023, we successfully returned to growth on an enhanced operational foundation with an emphasis on enrollment quality, member experience, and engagement. We expect to build on this foundation in 2024 by pursuing further enrollment growth while continuing to enhance key aspects of our platform. We intend to pursue deliberate, targeted growth focusing on products, demand generation channels, fulfillment processes, and market segments that best leverage our competitive differentiation. We believe that consumers are increasingly favoring choice and the ability to comparison shop to achieve optimal health insurance coverage. Our omnichannel choice model that supports telephonic, online-unassisted and online-assisted interactions with eHealth is well aligned with the evolving needs and preferences of our customers and allows us to reach a large portion of the Medicare and broader health insurance markets. Continue To Build Out Our Unified Omnichannel Marketing Engine In 2023, we scaled our existing successful demand generation channels and launched new channels, some on a full-scale basis and others in a pilot mode. We expect to continue to expand and diversify our channel mix through a disciplined, test-based approach as we pursue enrollment growth. We also completed a comprehensive rebrand to more effectively communicate eHealths differentiated value proposition and to reflect the transformational work that has taken place over the past two years. We plan to 9 Table of Contents communicate this value proposition in our branded materials throughout the customer journey, starting with a consistent message across our marketing channels, during customer interaction with our omnichannel platform as they research and shop for plans, and extending to post-enrollment member engagement activities. We will continue our efforts to achieve greater customer loyalty and brand recognition as a trusted, transparent advisor in a complex health insurance industry. Our marketing outreach will be optimized through audience targeting strategies and a disciplined, return-on-investment driven approach to lead generation. Our audience segmentation and targeting reflects the diverse nature of our end markets. For example, customers who are just aging into Medicare and looking for their first plan respond to marketing materials and interact with our platform differently from those who are familiar with the program and are looking to switch from an existing plan to a new one. We believe a more tailored approach geared to specific needs of an audience will lead to further improvement in lead quality and enhance customer engagement. We also will continue to align our marketing engine more closely with the new structure of our telesales organization by emphasizing local-market and product-specific campaigns. Focus on Enrollment Quality and Member Retention Our goal is to build a leadership position in our industry by establishing our omnichannel distribution platform as the gold standard for customer experience. We believe that success and sustainability of Medicare brokers is increasingly determined by customer satisfaction, retention, and other quality tracking metrics. This trend is redefining the competitive landscape in our business and has created significant competitive advantages for agents and brokers that emphasize member experience and collaborate with carriers on attaining quality goals. Through continued improvements to our online experience and plan recommendation engine, enhancement to agent training, and comprehensive post-enrollment retention strategy, we strive to present Medicare beneficiaries with choices that best align with their unique circumstances and assist them in making future decisions should their insurance plan needs or personal circumstances change. As a next phase of our retention strategy, we have introduced additional initiatives including updating our member onboarding experience, launching our loyalty program and personalized communications with our new and existing customers over a variety of channels meant to foster year-round awareness of eHealth and the services we provide. We also developed targeted retention programs for audiences with higher propensity for attrition, which include coordinated marketing outreach and specialized training for our benefit advisors to cater to specific member needs. Drive Higher Conversions on our Platform We plan to continue improving consumer experience and conversion rates across our entire omnichannel platform, regardless of how a customer first interacts with eHealth or how the final enrollment is made. This includes increasing the effectiveness of our telesales organization through a redesigned hiring, training, and career pathing program. We are also expanding the percentage of our benefit advisors who specialize in specific geographies and/or products, which has demonstrated a positive impact on the depth of their expertise and effectiveness in serving our customers. The changes to our demand generation strategy are also expected to contribute to higher conversion rates through better lead quality. On the technology side, we plan to further enhance customers shopping and enrollment experience on our platform through multiple touchpoints. This includes advanced plan recommendation tools, online educational content, real-time customer data verification, and new platform features aimed at bridging online and offline experience, such as online chat and agent co-browsing. Our goal is to allow customers to interact with us on their terms, moving seamlessly between our website, advisor enrollment center, and electronic communications with licensed benefit advisors, and to provide them with personalized and consistent end-to-end experiences across mobile and website throughout critical customer journeys. Diversify Our Revenue Streams We intend to leverage our technology leadership, carrier relationships and distribution capabilities to pursue the diversification of our core business and revenue base. This will include investing for growth in existing product 10 Table of Contents lines outside of the core Medicare Advantage business, including Medicare Supplement, individual and family and small business plans and ancillary products. We also expect to add new products and services and explore adjacent markets within the broader health insurance industry. Going forward, the E&I segment will be an important element of our diversification plan, and we expect to pursue both direct-to-consumer strategies as well as business-to-business strategies for employers of all sizes, including the emerging ICHRA opportunity. Another important element of our diversification program involves supplementing our core broker-of-record business with dedicated carrier arrangements and business process outsourcing deals that leverage our advisor enrollment center capabilities to help field inbound call volumes for specific carriers. Carrier Relationships We have developed strategic relationships with leading health insurance carriers in the United States, enabling us to offer thousands of health insurance plans online. We have relationships with over 180 Medicare-related, individual and family, small business and ancillary health insurance plan carriers, including large national carriers and well-established regional carriers. Many of these major carriers have been selling their products through us for over ten years. In many cases, we have back-office integration with major carriers allowing us to submit applications efficiently and cost-effectively, which is an area of competitive differentiation for our business. We typically enter into contractual agency relationships with health insurance carriers that are non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. Our Platforms and Technology Our ecommerce platforms and consumer engagement solutions are built to provide market-leading information, decision support, customer engagement, and transactional services to a broad group of health insurance consumers nationwide while prioritizing accessibility to health insurance. Our ecommerce platforms organize and present voluminous and complex health insurance information in an objective format that empowers individuals, families, and businesses to research, analyze, compare, and purchase a wide variety of health insurance plans. Our technology platform also allows eHealth to provide omni-channel capabilities to our customers who can shop and enroll in health insurance through an intuitive online interface, by speaking with a live benefit advisor or utilizing one of the hybrid enrollment methods such as agent chat and co-browsing tools. These omni-channel capabilities represent a differentiated offering relative to other brokers in our sector. We have a technology and content team that is responsible for ongoing enhancements to the features and functionality of our ecommerce platforms, which are critical to maintaining our technology leadership position in the industry. Many of our technology and content employees are employed by our Xiamen, China subsidiary. Elements of our platforms include: Plan Comparisons and Recommendations. We offer online comparison and recommendation tools that process and simplify voluminous information across thousands of health insurance plans that are available through our platform. Our technology enables consumers to compare and evaluate health insurance options based on each consumers specific needs and plan characteristics such as price, plan type, coverage limits, deductible amount, co-payment amount, and in-network and out-of-network benefits. After entering relevant information on our website or giving such information to one of our licensed benefit advisors, our platforms allow consumers to instantly receive a list of applicable health insurance plans and rate and benefit information in an easy-to-understand format. Our proprietary recommendation algorithms are carrier-agnostic and were designed based on the several million customer assistance interactions that we have facilitated. Online Application and Enrollment Forms. Health insurance applications vary widely by carrier and state. Our proprietary application tool lets us capture each insurance applications unique business rules and build a corresponding online application. Our online application process offers our consumers significant improvements 11 Table of Contents over the traditional, paper-intensive application process. It employs dynamic business logic to help individuals and families correctly complete the application and enrollment forms in real time. This reduces delays resulting from application rework, a significant problem with traditional health insurance distribution, where incomplete applications are mailed back and forth between the consumer, the traditional agent, and the carrier. We further simplify the enrollment process by accepting electronic signatures. Customer and Carrier Data Interchange.Our digital data interface technology integrates our online application process with health insurance carriers technology systems, enabling us to deliver our consumers applications to health insurance carriers electronically. Our digital interface technology also expedites the loading of insurance product inventory into our various shopping experiences and accelerates the application process by eliminating manual delivery. We also receive alerts and data from carriers, such as notification of approval or a request from a carrier for a consumers medical records for underwriting purposes, which we then relay electronically to the consumer. These features of our service help prevent applications from becoming delayed or rejected through inactivity of the consumer or the carrier. Advisor Enrollment Center Technology Systems.Our proprietary agent-assist management systems enable us to provide a full range of personalized customer service tasks efficiently while complying with Medicare and health insurance regulatory requirements. Our benefit advisors have script-on-screen tools that align to customer and compliance needs and leverage a common back-office platform that powers our direct-to-consumer shopping experience. Our systems also have customer relationship management tools that can track each consumer throughout the application process, obtain real-time updates from the carrier, generate automated emails specific to each consumer and access a cross-sell engine and dashboard to identify and track cross-sell opportunities. Our auto-email system is feature-rich with HTML capability, customizable merge tags, granular segmentation and tracking capability. Customer Center. Our customer center enables members to create a secure personal profile that stores their prescription drug regimen, preferred doctors and pharmacies, current coverage, and other relevant data. This data is available to members and our licensed benefit advisors that they contact. After members create a customer center account, our technology will import details provided to an agent over the telephone to the account. The following are important benefits of our customer center: Empower Medicare beneficiaries to take control of their personal information Our customer center puts our members in the driver's seat by helping them track and update the information they need when it is time to reconsider their coverage options. Identification of Medicare plan options With their relevant information securely stored in our customer center, it is easier for shoppers to find the best plan options for their personal needs and budget, and also incentivizes them to return to us when their needs change. Drive retention through communication Our customer center allows beneficiaries to track the status of their applications over time and connects them with us if they have questions. Information Security Information security is an integral part of our business. We emphasize that information security is everyones responsibility. We are committed to maintaining information security through responsible management, appropriate use, and protection according to relevant legal and regulatory requirements and our contractual relationships. We maintain an office of the chief information security officer (CISO) focused on information and systems technology and corporate governance to drive a common security framework practice. The CISO office concentrates on technology, behaviors, and safeguarding information from unauthorized or inappropriate access, use, or disclosure. The audit committee of our board of directors oversees information and cybersecurity risks and periodically reviews the status with our CISO. We utilize various industry-recognized information security frameworks, including SOC-2, Health Information Trust Alliance (HITRUST), National Institute of Standards and Technology, Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, Center for Internet Security (CIS) Controls, and CIS Benchmarks. For more information about our cybersecurity risk management and governance, see Part I, Item 1C, Cybersecurity, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 12 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, to protect our proprietary technology and our brand. We also have filed patent applications that relate to certain of our technology and business processes. Marketing We focus on building brand awareness, increasing Medicare, individual, family and business customer visits to our websites and telephonic sales centers, converting these visitors into members and retaining these members as long-term advocates. Our marketing initiatives are tailored to each consumer segment, ensuring each message resonates, is deployed into the channels that are relevant to each segment and connects throughout the entirety of the end-to-end experience. Our priority channels across audiences include: Direct Marketing. Our direct marketing consists of channels that drive consumers to call our advisor enrollment centers directly or access our website, including direct mail, search engines such as Google, paid social platforms like Facebook, email marketing, search engine optimization, radio, and television/video (including linear, connect television devices, and over the top media). Marketing Partners. Our marketing partner channel comprises a network of partners that drive consumers to our ecommerce platform and advisor enrollment centers. These partners include health care industry participants, such as insurance carriers; affiliate organizations; online advertisers and content providers that are specialists in paid and unpaid (algorithmic) search, as well as specialists in other types of Internet marketing; pharmacies and hospital networks; financial and online services partners in industries such as banking, insurance and mortgage; and off-line lead generators who specialize in traditional direct marketing channels, such as direct mail. Strategic Partner Marketing. Our strategic partner marketing channel consists of co-branded direct marketing with partners to serve their constituencies across key industry vertical categories. We also offer a suite of product integrations to assist in optimizing partner traffic through our online and telephonic flows and provide business process outsourcing that leverages our advisor enrollment center capabilities to help field inbound call volumes for specific carriers. This in turn drives value for our strategic partner by helping fill a need of their clients. Competition The market for selling health insurance plans is highly competitive. Our competitors include government entities, including government-run health insurance exchanges; health insurance carriers; other health insurance agents and brokers; and companies that use the Internet and other means to attract individuals interested in purchasing health insurance and generate revenue by referring these individuals to us or one of our competitors. Other agents and brokers. We compete with agents and brokers who offer and sell health insurance plans utilizing traditional offline distribution channels as well as the Internet. Our current competitors include the tens of thousands of local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities. A number of these agents as well as larger brokers operate websites and provide an online shopping experience to a varying degree for consumers interested in purchasing health insurance. In addition, there are a number of direct-to-consumer Medicare platforms that generate demand through a combination of online and traditional marketing channels and fulfill it through their call center operations. Government.In connection with our marketing of Medicare related health insurance plans, we compete with the federal governments original Medicare program. CMS also offers Medicare plan online enrollment, information and comparison tools and has established call centers for the sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. CMS has regulatory authority over the Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug program and can influence the competitiveness of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D 13 Table of Contents prescription drug plans compared to the original Medicare program, as well as the compensation that health insurance carriers are allowed to pay us. Insurance carriers. Many health insurance carriers directly market and sell their plans to consumers through call centers and their own websites. Although we offer health insurance plans for many of these carriers, they also compete with us by offering their plans directly to consumers and, to a much lesser extent, to small businesses. Health insurance carriers have become more experienced in marketing their products directly to consumers, both over the Internet and through more traditional channels, which has resulted in increased competition. Internet marketers and other advertisers.There are many Internet marketing companies and other advertisers that use the Internet and other means to find consumers interested in purchasing health insurance and are compensated for referring those consumers to agents and health insurance carriers. We compete with these companies for individuals who are looking to purchase health insurance. Seasonality The majority of our commission revenue is recognized in the fourth quarter of each calendar year under Accounting Standards Codification, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (ASC 606), which we adopted using the full retrospective transition method on January 1, 2018. We have historically sold a significant portion of Medicare plans for the year in the fourth quarter during the Medicare annual enrollment period, when Medicare-eligible individuals are permitted to change their Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug coverage for the following year. During 2023, 2022, and 2021, 56%, 45%, and 49%, respectively, of our Medicare plan-related applications were submitted during the fourth quarter.As a result, we generate a significant portion of our commission revenues related to new Medicare plan-related enrollments in the fourth quarter. Beginning January 1, 2019, CMS revived the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period during which Medicare Advantage plan enrollees may enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan or disenroll from their Medicare Advantage plan and return to original Medicare. The Medicare Advantage open enrollment period is scheduled to occur between January 1 and March 31of each year. As a result, we expect to generate higher commission revenue in the first quarter compared to the second and third quarters. The annual open enrollment period for individual and family health insurance takes place in the fourth quarter of the calendar year, as prescribed under the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and related amendments in the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act. During 2023, 2022, and 2021, 46%, 55%, and 38%, respectively, of our individual and family plan-related applications were submitted during the fourth quarter. As a result, we generate a significant portion of our commission revenues related to individual and family plan-related enrollments in the fourth quarter. In the states where the Federally Facilitated Marketplace (FFM) operates as the state health insurance exchange, individuals and families generally are not able to purchase individual and family health insurance outside of the annual enrollment period, unless they qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events, such as losing employer-sponsored health insurance or moving to another state. Extended open enrollment or special enrollment periods may change the seasonality of our individual and family health insurance business. For example, the COVID-19 related special enrollment period for individual and family health insurance that ended on August 15, 2021 caused increased sales of individual and family health insurance plans outside of the open enrollment period. We incur a significant portion of our marketing and advertising expenses in the fourth quarter as a result of the Medicare annual enrollment period and the open enrollment period under the Affordable Care Act. We expect this seasonal trend in marketing and advertising expenses to continue in the foreseeable future. Full-time internal benefit advisors represent the majority of our telesales capacity. We plan to maintain our internal telesales benefit advisors year-round, net of natural attrition, and expect to increase our internal benefit advisors utilization outside of the enrollment periods by expanding our offerings of ancillary products and carrier call center outsourcing programs. We typically start ramping our telesales capacity during the second quarter, in preparation for the fourth quarter Annual Enrollment Period. The magnitude of new agent hiring is driven by our 14 Table of Contents enrollment growth goals for that year. Our customer care and enrollment expenses are typically highest in the fourth quarter and lowest in the second quarter. Macroeconomic Conditions Recent macroeconomic events, including rising consumer prices and interest rates, have led to uncertainty as it pertains to consumer shopping patterns. Given that our core product, Medicare Advantage, is characterized by low premiums, including a large selection of zero premium plans, the demand for our services is relatively unimpacted by the economic cycles. At the same time, purchasing power of consumers and businesses has a greater impact on activity in the individual and family and business markets. We believe the COVID-19 pandemic had a lasting impact on consumer behavior when it comes to selecting and utilizing health insurance. We believe that more seniors have become more likely to shop for Medicare products online or over the phone versus a face-to-face meeting with a traditional broker, which could have a positive impact on comparison Medicare platforms such as ours. Additionally, we have seen and may continue to see cost savings from the shift to remote and distributed work for all of our employees in areas including events, travel, utilities, and other benefits. Certain of these cost savings may continue beyond the resolution of the COVID-19 pandemic in connection with our remote first workplace model, as described below. Government Regulation and Compliance Insurance and Healthcare Regulations. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act which became law in March 2010 (collectively, the Affordable Care Act), have primarily impacted our business of selling individual, family and small business insurance plans. The Affordable Care Act, among other things, established annual open enrollment periods for the purchase of individual and family health insurance. Individuals and families generally are not able to purchase individual and family health insurance outside of the annual enrollment periods, unless they qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events, such as losing employer-sponsored health insurance or moving to another state. Moreover, in order to be eligible for a subsidy, qualified individuals must purchase subsidy-qualifying health plans, known as qualified health plans, through a government-run health insurance exchange during the open enrollment period or a special enrollment period. While they are not required to do so, government-run exchanges are permitted to allow agents and brokers to enroll individuals and families into qualified health plans through them. The FFM run by CMS operated some part of the health insurance exchange in 33 states during the last health care open enrollment period. Our enrollment of individuals and families into qualified health plans to date has generally occurred through the FFM. We currently distribute health insurance plans nationwide. The health insurance industry is heavily regulated. Each of these jurisdictions has its own rules and regulations relating to the offer and sale of health insurance plans, typically administered by a department of insurance. State insurance departments have administrative powers relating to, among other things: regulating premium prices; granting and revoking licenses to transact insurance business; approving individuals and entities to which, and circumstances under which, commissions can be paid; regulating advertising, marketing and trade practices; monitoring broker and agent conduct; and imposing continuing education requirements. We are required to maintain valid life and/or health agency and/or agent licenses in each jurisdiction in which we transact health insurance business. In addition to state regulations, we also are subject to federal laws, regulations and guidelines issued by CMS that place a number of requirements on health insurance carriers and agents and brokers in connection with the marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. We are subject to similar requirements of state insurance departments with respect to our marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans. Medicare plans are not generally able to be purchased outside of an annual enrollment period that occurs in the fourth quarter of the year, subject to exception for individuals aging into Medicare eligibility and for individuals who qualify for a special enrollment period as a result of certain qualifying events. In addition, Medicare Advantage plan enrollees may enroll in another Medicare Advantage plan or disenroll from their Medicare Advantage plan and 15 Table of Contents return to original Medicare during the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period that generally occurs in the first quarter of the year. CMS and state insurance department regulations and guidelines include a number of prohibitions regarding the ability to contact Medicare-eligible individuals and place many restrictions on the marketing of Medicare-related plans. For example, we or our health insurance carrier partners are required to file with CMS and state departments of insurance certain of our websites, our advisor enrollment center scripts and other marketing materials we, or in some cases our partners, use to market Medicare-related plans and require publication or additional notice and disclaimers. In some instances, CMS or state departments of insurance must approve the material before we use it. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare-related plans are ambiguous, complex and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. CMS frequently proposes and implements new regulations, or amends or clarifies existing regulations, in ways that may make operating our business more difficult. For example, in recent years, CMS has expanded the set of materials requiring filing or approval and added required disclaimers to certain types of marketing and communications. Most recently, CMS has proposed new rules to limit compensation to brokers and agents like us for certain types of services in connection with Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug programs. Data Privacy and Security Regulations. We are subject to various federal and state privacy and security laws, regulations and requirements. These laws govern our collection, use, disclosure, protection and maintenance of the individually-identifiable information that we collect from consumers. For example, we are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). HIPAA and regulations adopted pursuant to HIPAA require us to maintain the privacy of individually-identifiable health information that we collect on behalf of health insurance carriers, implement measures to safeguard such information and provide notification in the event of a breach in the privacy or confidentiality of such information. In addition to our obligations we may have under contracts with health insurance carriers and others regarding the collection, maintenance, protection, use, transmission, disclosure or disposal of sensitive personal information, the use and disclosure of certain data that we collect from consumers is also regulated in some instances by other federal laws, including the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) and state statutes implementing GLBA. GLBA generally requires brokers to provide customers with notice regarding how their non-public personal health and financial information is used and the opportunity to opt out of certain disclosures before sharing such information with a third party, and which generally require safeguards for the protection of personal information. We regularly assess our compliance with privacy and security requirements. These requirements are evolving, and many states continue to adopt additional state-specific requirements, that vary in their scope and application to our business. Such state privacy laws currently, or may in the future, establish, among other things, new privacy rights for residents of the relevant state, such as the right to know what personal information has been collected about them, how we use and disclose this information, and the right to request deletion of that information. In addition to government action, health insurance carrier expectations relating to privacy and security protections are increasing and evolving. We have incurred significant costs to develop new processes and procedures and to adopt new technology in an effort to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations and carrier expectations and to protect against cyber security risks and security breaches. We expect to continue to do so in the future. Violations of federal and state privacy and security laws and other contractual requirements may result in significant liability and expense, damage to our reputation or termination of relationships with government-run health insurance exchanges and our members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. Human Capital Resources Employees are our most valuable asset, and we strive to put them first. We are a creative and collaborative group with a single, shared mission. As of December 31, 2023, we had 1,903 full-time employees, of which 1,322 were in customer care and enrollment, 273 were in technology and content, 235 were in general and administrative, and 73 were in marketing and advertising. Of the 1,903 full-time employees, 249 were non-US employees based in our subsidiary in China. None of our U.S. employees are represented by a labor union. As required under Chinese law, the employees in our Xiamen, China office established what is referred to as a labor union in China in January 2014. We have not experienced any work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be strong. We value our employees for their critical role in the success of our business. We focus on our culture and connect with our employees through engagement programs, by offering learning and professional development 16 Table of Contents opportunities, by providing a generous and competitive benefits package, and by championing diversity and inclusion through our corporate philosophy and polices. We conduct one full engagement survey per year involving a broad range of questions and one pulse survey per year to review specific questions more comprehensively. Throughout the year we leverage business unit engagement champions to obtain ongoing, real-time feedback for continuous improvement opportunities. We offer free online courses and a robust manager development program across all our operations. We provide specialized training within Sales Mastery University to enable our benefit advisors to onboard, obtain certification, and equip them with the tools necessary to be productive within their roles. For manager level employees, eHealth has introduced a meeting series titled Leaders Leading Leaders, which are virtual monthly gatherings of all eHealth leaders with the goal of providing critical and timely business updates to align organization-based objectives to the companys strategic objectives and prepare leaders to disseminate vital internal information to their teams. This meeting also facilitates functional leadership growth opportunities and the development of business acumen within our leader pool. We offer all employees a competitive base salary and an annual cash bonus award earned based on achieving goals relating to company performance and personal performance, and our full-time employees enjoy a generous Total Rewards package of benefits. Our pay and benefits structure is designed to motivate, incentivize and reward our employees at all levels of the organization for their skill development, demonstration of our values and performance. Our benefits package generally includes the following: Core Benefits: Health Insurance, including Medical, Dental and Vision Mental Health and Employee Assistance Programs Life & Disability Flexible Spending Accounts 401(k) Retirement Plan with Company Match Program Additional Benefits: Tuition Reimbursement Back-up Care Student Loan Repayment Programs Financial Planning Assistance Fertility & Adoption Assistance Legal Program Employee Stock Purchase Plan Recognition Program through Spotlight Paid Time Off Phone and Internet Reimbursement Parental Leave Donation with Matching & Volunteering Program We stand for inclusion and believe people are our greatest resource. Embracing individuality, unique ideas, experiences and perspectives fuels innovation and drives our mission forward. We recognize the importance of cultivating a company culture that is diverse, equal and inclusive, in which everyone is treated with respect and dignity, and in which we can learn from one anothers unique experiences and capabilities. We are proud of the diverse makeup of our workforce and recognize that a mix of backgrounds, skills and experiences makes us stronger as an organization. An inclusive culture also allows us to better understand and serve our customers who represent diverse socio-economic and demographic backgrounds. Our Diversity and Inclusion committee continues to identify ways in which we can further support a culture of acceptance and inclusivity. The breakdown of our employees by gender is as follows: United States China Female 899 150 Male 743 99 Not disclosed 12 0 17 Table of Contents The breakdown of our US employees by race is as follows: The members of our Board of Directors represent a diverse perspective. The Board currently is made up of eight members and has always included a majority of independent directors. Our board membership includes three women, one director who is a member of the LGBTQ+ community and one director who is of Hispanic and Asian heritage. Our Board of Directors also oversees our policies and procedures as they relate to environmental, social and corporate governance matters through its Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) We have published annual sustainability reports since 2021, which marked the beginning of our ESG journey as we made a company-wide commitment to a stronger focus on our long-term ESG opportunities and risks while also embedding them into our corporate strategy. Our report and future strategy are informed by an internal materiality assessment, and relevant topics identified through third-party reporting frameworks including Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, Global Reporting Initiative, and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We are dedicated to making a difference in the lives of consumers, associates, partners and broader society. Information about our ESG efforts is available on our website (www.ehealth.com) under ESG Resources which provides information on our public commitments, policies, social and environmental programs, sustainability, strategy and ESG data. The information contained in, or referred to, on our website is not deemed to be incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K unless otherwise expressly noted. Climate Change Though our direct environmental impact is limited, we believe that we all have a role to play in effectively planning for, and mitigating the effects of, climate change. Therefore, we consider climate-related risks when assessing our larger enterprise-level risks. We support science-based climate policies and decarbonization actions in alignment with the Paris Agreement and the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. We believe we have made a significant positive impact on sustainability by dramatically reducing the amount of paper used not just in our operation but in the wider health insurance industry through our pioneering work in digitizing the purchase of insurance plans. We also helped reduce the carbon footprint associated with the process of researching and 18 Table of Contents enrolling in health insurance by allowing seniors to go through the entire process from their homes and removing the need for a face-to-face meeting with a broker, which is the traditional way these products used to be marketed and sold. Our transition to being a remote first company in 2022 has significantly reduced our real estate footprint. For the office space we do use, we plan to incorporate design that promotes the health, well-being, and productivity of our workforce and plan to consider the environmental impacts of our facilities. In 2022, we completed a large data migration project, shifting our data centers from physical infrastructure to cloud-based storage in order to reduce environmental impacts and more effectively manage and access our data. We also consider green and sustainably sourced materials when making procurement decisions for our office supplies, including equipment. The majority of our equipment purchased in the United States is energy efficient, including ENERGY Star Certified. We use recycled paper when available and take advantage of opportunities to recycle materials. We continue to extend our data tracking mechanisms to better understand our organizational footprint and to identify ways to further mitigate our impact on the environment. Corporate Information We were incorporated in Delaware in November 1997. Our principal executive offices are located at 13620 Ranch Road 620 N, Suite A250, Austin, TX 78717, and our telephone number is (737) 248-2340. Available Information We make available free of charge on the Investor Relations page of our web site (ir.ehealthinsurance.com) our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC). The SEC also maintains an Internet website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Our corporate governance guidelines, code of business conduct, audit committee charter, compensation committee charter, and nominating and corporate governance committee charter are available on the governance page of our website at ir.ehealthinsurance.com. The information that can be accessed on or through our websites is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business as they may have a significant impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance should not be considered as a reliable indicator of future performance and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. Our Risk Factors are not guarantees that no such conditions exist as of the date of this report and should not be interpreted as an affirmative statement that such risks or conditions have not materialized, in whole or in part. Risks Related to Our Business The markets in which we participate are intensely competitive, and if we cannot compete effectively against current and future competitors, including government-run health insurance exchanges, our business, operating results and financial condition could suffer. The market for selling health insurance plans is characterized by intense competition, and we face challenges associated with evolving distribution models, industry and regulatory standards, customer price sensitivity and macro-economic conditions. To remain competitive against our current and future competitors, we need to continue to enhance the online health insurance shopping experience and functionalities of our website and advisor enrollment operations that our current and future customers may use to purchase health insurance products from us. We also need to work with the health insurance carriers to be able to offer a variety of quality health insurance plans on our platform from which our customers may choose. We will also need to market our services effectively and drive a substantial number of consumers interested in purchasing health insurance to our website and advisor enrollment centers during the relevant enrollment periods in a cost-effective manner. We compete with government-run health insurance exchanges, among others, with respect to our sale of Medicare-related and employer and individual health insurance plans. The federal government operates a website where Medicare beneficiaries can purchase Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans or be referred to carriers to purchase Medicare Supplement plans. We also compete with the original Medicare program. The federal government also operates websites where individuals and small businesses can purchase health insurance, and they also have offline customer support and enrollment capabilities. Our competitors also include local insurance agents across the United States who sell health insurance plans in their communities, companies that advertise primarily through television, and companies that operate call centers or websites that provide quote information or the opportunity to purchase health insurance telephonically or online, including lead aggregator services. Although we work with many health insurance carriers on marketing and selling their insurance plans on their behalf, many of them also compete with us by directly marketing and selling their plans to consumers through call centers, Internet advertising and their own websites. In recent years, we have also seen increased competition from national telesales insurance brokers. Some of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As compared to us, our current and future competitors may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services, devote more resources to website and systems development, negotiate more favorable commission rates and commission override payments and make more attractive offers to potential employees, marketing partners and third-party service providers. Competitive pressures from government-run health insurance exchanges and other competitors may result in our experiencing increased marketing costs, especially during the Medicare annual enrollment period, decreased demand and loss of market share, increased health insurance plan termination and member turnover, reduction in our membership or revenue and may otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Our business may be harmed if we lose our relationship with health insurance carriers or our relationship with health insurance carriers is modified. The success of our business depends upon our ability to enter into new and maintain existing relationships with health insurance carriers on favorable economic terms. Any impairment of our relationship with, or the material financial impairment of, these health insurance carriers or our inability to enter into new relationships with other health insurance carriers could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our contractual relationships with health insurance carriers are typically non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In many cases, health insurance carriers may also amend the terms of our agreements unilaterally, including commission rates, on short notice. Health insurance carriers may decide to reduce our commissions, rely on their own internal distribution channels to sell their own plans, determine not to sell their plans or otherwise limit or prohibit us from selling their plans. Carriers may also amend our agreements with them for a variety of reasons, including for competitive or regulatory reasons, dissatisfaction with the economics of the members that we place with them or because they do not want to be associated with our brand. In particular, the laws and regulations applicable to the business of selling Medicare-related plans are complex and frequently change. If we or our benefit advisors violate any of the requirements imposed by the U.S. Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), or applicable federal or state laws or regulations, health insurance carriers may terminate their relationship with us or require us to take corrective action if our Medicare product sales or marketing give rise to too many complaints. The termination of our relationship with a health insurance carrier, the reduction of commission rates, or the amendment of or change in our relationship with a carrier has in the past reduced, and may in the future reduce, the variety, quality and affordability of health insurance plans we offer, cause a loss of commission payments, including commissions for past and/or future sales, cause a reduction in the estimated constrained lifetime values (LTVs) we use for revenue recognition purposes, result in a loss of existing and potential members, adversely impact our profitability or have other adverse impacts, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Health insurance carriers may also determine to exit certain states or markets, or increase premiums to a significant degree, which could cause our members health insurance plans to be terminated or our members to purchase new health insurance plans or determine not to pay for health insurance at all. If we lose these members, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of health insurance carriers, and any impairment of our relationship with them or impairment of their business could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenue has been concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers and we expect that a small number of health insurance carriers will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. For example, Humana, UnitedHealthcare and Aetna accounted for 27%, 23% and 15%, respectively, of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2023, and accounted for 23%, 22% and 12%, respectively, of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022. As discussed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, our contractual relationships with health insurance carriers are typically non-exclusive and terminable on short notice by either party for any reason. In particular, given the concentration of our Medicare plan sales in a small number of carriers, if we lose a relationship with a health insurance carrier to market their Medicare plans, even temporarily, or if the health insurance carrier loses its Medicare product membership or their ability to conduct business is otherwise impaired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. If we are unable to successfully attract and convert qualified prospects into members for whom we receive commissions, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We derive our revenues primarily from commission payments paid to us by health insurance carriers for Medicare-related health insurance and individual and family health insurance plans that have been purchased by members through our services. Our business success depends in large part on our ability to attract qualified prospects into our enrollment platform and provide a relevant and reliable experience in a cost-effective manner to convert such prospects into paying members for whom we receive commissions. We employ different marketing channels and may from time to time adjust our member acquisition strategy to attract visitors to our website and communicate with customers who contact our advisor enrollment centers. If our ability to market and sell Medicare- 21 Table of Contents related health insurance and individual and family health insurance is constrained during the Medicare or individual and family health insurance enrollment periods for any reason, such as technology failures, interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce or telephony platforms, reduced allocation of resources, or any inability to timely employ, license, train, certify and retain our employees to sell health insurance, we could acquire fewer members, suffer a reduction in our membership, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our business may also be adversely affected by changes in the mix of products and services that we offer on our platform, changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct marketing, marketing partners and strategic partner marketing member acquisition channels, including the quality of sales leads, and by seasonal influences. In addition, adverse market events or economic conditions, such as inflation and rising unemployment levels, could impact consumer behavior and demand for health insurance. If more consumers decide to delay enrollment or decrease or discontinue coverage under plans sold through us, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. We have taken and may take additional actions to improve the customer experience, enhance accuracy of plan recommendations, reduce rapid disenrollment and beneficiary complaints, and improve the quality of our enrollments and conversion rates. Although we have in the past invested, and may from time to time invest, in various areas of our business, including technology and content, customer care and enrollment, and marketing and advertising to improve the quantity and quality of our membership enrollment in advance of enrollment periods, such investment may not result in a significantly improved number of approved and paying members or may not be as cost-effective as we anticipated. Our business may be harmed if we do not enroll subsidy-eligible individuals through government-run health insurance exchanges efficiently. In order to offer the qualified health plans that individuals and families must purchase to receive Affordable Care Act subsidies, we must meet certain conditions, such as receiving permission to do so from the applicable government health insurance exchange, entering into or maintaining an agreement with the health insurance exchange or a partner of the exchange, ensuring that the enrollment and subsidy application is completed through the health insurance exchange and complying with privacy, security and other standards. In the event Internet-based agents and brokers such as us use the Internet for completion of qualified health plan selection purposes, their websites may be required to meet certain additional requirements. To help manage additional expenses and regulatory burdens associated with enrolling individuals and families into qualified health plans, we rely on a third-party vendor to help comply certain aspects of the relevant requirements, and our qualified plan enrollments are made predominantly through the Federally Facilitated Marketplace (FFM), which currently runs all or part of the health insurance exchange in 32 states. We may experience difficulty in satisfying the conditions and requirements to offer qualified health plans to our existing members and new potential members and in getting them enrolled through the FFM or any similar state-based exchange. The FFM may at any time cease allowing us or our third-party vendor to enroll individuals in qualified health plans or change the requirements for doing so, or relevant government regulations or agencies may prevent us from efficiently working with our third-party vendor, including timely receiving and using data from our third-party vendor. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in maintaining a relationship with our third-party vendor who is approved to use the process, and we may not be able to enroll individuals into qualified health plans through the FFM or could be required to use an inferior process to do so. The number of states using the FFM may also decrease in the future, reducing our ability to enroll members through the FFM. In addition, if we are not able to maintain solutions to integrate with government-run health insurance exchanges or if the health insurance exchange websites and other processes are unstable or not consumer friendly, efficient and compatible with the process we have adopted for enrolling individuals and families into qualified health plans through the exchanges, we would not be successful in retaining and acquiring members, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Similarly for states that use state-based exchanges instead of the FFM, we may not be able to establish or maintain stable, consumer friendly, efficient or compatible legal arrangements or technical processes to enroll members in qualified health plans through such state-based exchanges, either directly with the governmental entities running such state-based exchanges or through appropriate third parties that allow us to access such state-based exchanges. 22 Table of Contents If we are not able to satisfy these conditions and requirements, or if we are not able to successfully adopt and maintain solutions in a timely, efficient and cost-effective manner to respond to changing circumstances to allow us to continue to effectively enroll large numbers of members through the FFM and state-based exchanges, we could lose existing members and fail to attract new members and may incur additional expense, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely impacted if we are unable to retain our existing members. We receive commissions from health insurance carriers for health insurance plans sold through us. When one of these plans is canceled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the plan, we no longer receive the related commission payment. Health insurance carriers may choose to discontinue their health insurance plans for a variety of reasons, and when members update their health insurance plan, they may also select a different plan that is not sold through us, or we are otherwise no longer the agent on the plan. Consumers may also purchase individual and family and Medicare-related health insurance plans directly from other sources, such as our competitors, and we would not remain the agent on the policy and receive the related commission. Our ability to grow and retain our membership depends on various factors, including agent productivity, the ability of enrollees to change their health plan outside of the Medicare annual enrollment period, the source of referrals and their enrollment experience. If agent productivity and member retention rates decline, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, extended enrollment periods could lead to increased termination rates in the future, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Any decrease in the amount of time we retain our members on the health insurance plans that they purchased through us could adversely impact the estimated constrained LTVs we use for purposes of recognizing revenue, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we experience higher health insurance plan termination rates than we estimated when we recognized commission revenue, we may not collect all of the related commissions receivable, which could result in a reduction in LTV and a write-off of contract assets -commissions receivable, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our marketing efforts may not be successful or may become more expensive, either of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We spend significant resources on our marketing efforts, which may not be successful or may become more expensive, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Any decrease in the amount or effectiveness of our marketing efforts could lead to lower revenue or growth and profitability of this business. We depend on our marketing partners for referring potential consumers to our ecommerce platform and advisor enrollment centers. The success of our relationship with a marketing partner is dependent on a number of factors, including but not limited to the continued positive market presence, reputation and growth of the marketing partner, the effectiveness of the marketing partner in marketing our website and services, the compliance of each marketing partner with applicable laws, regulations and guidelines, the contractual terms we negotiate with our marketing partners, including the marketing fees we agree to pay, and our ability to accurately and timely track, pay and manage marketing partners. These marketing partners include financial and online services companies, affiliate organizations, online advertisers and content providers, and other marketing vendors. We also have relationships with strategic marketing partners, including hospitals and pharmacy chains that promote our Medicare platforms to their customers as well as other provider groups, wellness, and other digital and affinity groups. We compensate many of our marketing partners for their referrals on either a submitted health insurance application basis or a per-referral basis or, if they are licensed to sell health insurance, we may share a percentage of the commission we earn from the health insurance carrier for each member referred by the marketing partner. We also have relationships with marketing partners that utilize aspects of our platform and tools. Given our reliance on our marketing partners, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed if we are unable to maintain successful relationships with high volume marketing partners as a result of increased competition for referrals or less commercially favorable terms. As discussed elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, the marketing and sale of Medicare plans are subject to numerous laws, regulations and guidelines at the federal and state level, and recent changes to the CMS 23 Table of Contents marketing guidelines have resulted in a more complicated and time-consuming process for marketing material filing and the need to file a significantly greater number of our and our marketing partners marketing materials with CMS. If our marketing partners marketing materials do not comply with the CMS marketing guidelines or other Medicare program related laws, rules and regulations, such non-compliance could result in our losing the ability to receive referrals of individuals interested in purchasing Medicare-related plans from that marketing material or being delayed in doing so. In the event that CMS or a health insurance carrier requires changes to, disapproves or delays approval of these materials, we could lose a significant source of Medicare plan demand and the operations of our Medicare business could be adversely affected. If we lose marketing partner referrals during the Medicare or individual and family health insurance enrollment periods, the adverse impact on our business would be significant. We depend upon Internet search engines and social media platforms to attract a significant portion of the consumers who visit our website. If we are unable to effectively advertise on search engines or social media platforms on a cost-effective basis, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our website traffic from consumers who search for health insurance through Internet search engines, such as Google, and through social media platforms, such as Facebook. A critical factor in attracting consumers to our website is whether we are prominently displayed in response to an Internet search relating to health insurance or on a social media platform. Search engines typically provide two types of search results: algorithmic listings and paid advertisements. We rely on both to attract consumers to our websites and otherwise generate demand for our services. If we are listed less prominently in, or removed altogether from, search result listings or if internet search engines become unavailable, the traffic to our websites would decline and we may not be able to replace this traffic, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The use of alternative marketing channels could cause us to increase our marketing expenditures, which would also increase our cost of member acquisition and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have recently refreshed our brand identity and expect to continue to invest in maintaining our brand identity. We believe our brand identity will strengthen our relationships with existing, and help attract new, members, marketing partners and health insurance carriers. Some of our current and potential competitors have greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do, and they may try to replicate our efforts, competitively bid against our branded search terms to redirect traffic seeking our brand, or undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful in maintaining or attracting new members, marketing partners or health insurance carriers, and as a result, may not yield increased revenue. To the extent that these activities yield increased revenue, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If our carrier advertising and sponsorship program is not successful, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. We develop, host and maintain carrier dedicated Medicare plan websites and may undertake other marketing and advertising initiatives or perform other services through our Medicare plan advertising program. We also allow health insurance carriers to purchase advertising space for non-Medicare products on our website through our sponsorship program. The success of our sponsorship and advertising program depends on a number of factors, including the amount that health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising services, the effectiveness of the sponsorship and advertising program as a cost-effective method for carriers to obtain additional members, consumer demand for the health insurance carriers product, our ability to attract consumers to our ecommerce platform or our advisor enrollment centers and convert those consumers into members, and the cost, benefit and brand recognition of the health insurance plan that is the subject of the advertising, among others. To the extent that economic conditions, health care reform or other factors impact the amount health insurance carriers are willing to pay for advertising, our advertising and sponsorship program will be adversely impacted. In addition, increased carrier focus on the quality of enrollments and reduction in member complaints could adversely impact our ability to successfully negotiate and operate our sponsorship and advertising programs. Moreover, in light of the regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans, and given that these regulations are often complex, change frequently and are subject to changing interpretations or enforcement actions, we may in the future not be permitted to sell Medicare plan-related advertising services. If we are not successful in these areas or these factors are unfavorable to us, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. In addition, since we maintain relationships with a limited number of health insurance carriers to sell their Medicare plans, our Medicare plan-related advertising revenue is concentrated in a small number of health insurance carriers, 24 Table of Contents and our ability to generate Medicare plan-related advertising revenue would be harmed by the termination or non-renewal of any of these relationships as well as by a reduction in the amount a health insurance carrier is willing to pay for these services. Our business is seasonal in nature, and if we are not successful in responding to changes in the seasonality of our business, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Due to the timing of Medicare and individual and family health plan annual enrollment periods, which may be subject to change from time to time, our financial results fluctuate and are not comparable from quarter to quarter. The Medicare annual enrollment period occurs from October 15 to December 7 each year, the individual and family health insurance open enrollment period occurs from November 1 through December 15 each year for most states, and the Medicare Advantage open enrollment period, during which Medicare-eligible individuals enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan can switch to the original Medicare program or switch to a different Medicare Advantage plan, runs from January 1 through March 31 of each year. As a result, we have traditionally experienced an increase in the number of submitted Medicare-related applications and approved members during the fourth quarter and, to a lesser extent, in the first quarter, and an increase in Medicare plan related expense, including marketing and advertising expenses, during the third and fourth quarters in connection with the open enrollment periods. However, because commissions from approved customers are paid to us over time, our operating cash flows could be adversely impacted by a substantial increase in marketing and advertising expense. Changes in timing of the Medicare or individual and family health plan enrollment periods, adoption of new or special enrollment periods, changes in eligibility and subsidies applicable to the purchase of health insurance, and changes in the laws and regulations that govern the sale of health insurance may occur from time to time and we may not be able to timely adjust to changes in the seasonality of our business, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in our management or key employees could affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success is dependent upon the performance of our senior management and our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel for all areas of our organization. We may not be successful in attracting and retaining personnel on a timely basis, on competitive terms or at all. Our executive officers and employees can terminate their employment at any time, and the loss of these individuals could harm our business, especially if we are not successful in developing adequate succession plans. In recent years, we have appointed several new executive officers and other senior leaders across multiple functions, and we may have additional changes in the future. The transition and the departure of members of our senior management could result in additional attrition in our senior management and key personnel, and any significant change in leadership over a short period of time could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We also depend on a relatively small number of employees for certain key roles, and the loss of such key employees could harm our business. For example, we are required to appoint a single designated writing agent with each insurance carrier. A small number of our employees act as writing agent and each employee that acts as writing agent does so for a number of carriers. When an employee that acts as writing agent terminates their employment with us, we need to replace such writing agent with another employee who has health insurance licenses. Due to our national reach and the large number of carriers whose plans are purchased by our members, the process of changing writing agents has in the past taken and could take a significant period of time to complete. If the transition is not successful, our ability to sell health insurance plans may be interrupted, our agency relationship with particular insurance carriers may be terminated, our commission payments could be discontinued or delayed and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our business success depends on our ability to timely hire, train and retain qualified licensed insurance agents, or benefit advisors, and other personnel to provide superior customer service and support our strategic initiatives while also controlling our labor costs. Our omnichannel consumer engagement platform enables customers to discover, compare and purchase a health insurance plan using our proprietary online search engine as well as receive assistance of a licensed insurance agent, or benefit advisor, by telephone, online chat or through a hybrid online assisted interaction such as 25 Table of Contents co-browsing. Our advisor enrollment center operations are critical to our success and dependent on our ability to recruit, hire, train and effectively manage our licensed benefit advisors and other employees. To sell Medicare-related health insurance products, our benefit advisors must be licensed by the states in which they are selling plans and certified and appointed with the health insurance carrier that offers the plans in each applicable state. We depend upon our employees, state departments of insurance, government exchanges and health insurance carriers for the licensing, certification and appointment of our benefit advisors. We may experience difficulties hiring and retaining a sufficient number of benefit advisors and support staff during the year and especially for the Medicare annual enrollment period. Even if we are successful in hiring and retaining licensed benefit advisors and support staff, our success depends on the productivity of these individuals that operate our advisor enrollment centers. Failure to retain, train and ensure the productivity of our benefit advisors and other employees could result in lower-than-expected sold plans, conversion rates and revenue, higher costs of acquisition per member and higher plan termination rates, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If our benefit advisors do not perform to the standards we expect of them or if we do not generate sufficient call volumes for our benefit advisors to remain productive, our sold plan volume, conversion and retention rates could be negatively impacted, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If investments we make in our advisor enrollment center operations do not result in the returns we expected when making those investments, we could acquire fewer members, suffer a reduction in our membership, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Given that our business is seasonal in nature, if we are not successful in hiring, training and retaining qualified benefit advisors and support staff, our benefit advisors do not perform to high standards or our investments in our advisor enrollment center operations do not result in expected returns, among other factors discussed in this risk factor, our ability to sell Medicare-related health insurance plans will be impaired during the Medicare annual enrollment period, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be harmed if we are not successful in executing on our operational and strategic plans, including our growth strategies, cost-saving and enrollment quality initiatives. Our future performance depends in large part upon our ability to execute our operational and strategic plans. Our success depends in large part on our ability to develop and improve products and services. We have in the past invested and may make significant investments in marketing and advertising, technology and content, customer care and enrollment. Our growth strategy also involves investment in the development of new offerings and initiatives that differentiate us from our competitors, including those aimed at increasing the effectiveness of our sales and marketing organizations. We may also enter into strategic partnerships aligned with our business and growth objectives. Pursuing and investing in these initiatives may increase our expenses and our organizational complexity, divert managements attention from other business concerns and also involve risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section, including the failure of our initiatives to achieve our retention, cost-savings, growth or profitability targets, inadequate return of capital on our investments, legal and regulatory compliance risks, potential changes in laws and regulations and other issues that could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our investments and incur unanticipated liabilities. If we are not successful in executing on our operational and strategic plans or if we do not realize the expected benefits of our investments, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, from time to time, we may initiate restructuring plans to implement cost savings initiatives or programs including, among other things, reductions in workforce, rationalizing our cost structure and other fixed and variable expenses. While such initiatives are intended to improve our operations through re-engineering, reorganizing, and better deployment of marketing expenses and other operating expenses, we may not successfully realize the expected benefits of the actions that we have or may in the future take in connection therewith. A variety of risks could cause us not to realize some or all of the expected benefits of these or any other restructuring plans that we may undertake, including, among others, higher than anticipated costs in implementing such restructuring plans, management distraction from ongoing business activities, damage to our reputation and brand image, including negative publicity, workforce attrition beyond planned reductions and risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Risk Factors section. Even if we do implement and administer these plans in the manner 26 Table of Contents contemplated, our estimated cost savings resulting therefrom are based on several assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate and, as a result, we cannot assure you that we will realize these cost savings. Our failure to effectively manage our operations and maintain our company culture as our business evolves and our work practices change could harm us. Our future operating results will depend on our ability to manage our operations. It is also important to our success that we hire qualified personnel and properly train and manage them, all while maintaining our corporate culture and spirit of innovation. If we are not successful in these efforts, our growth and operations could be adversely affected. In the third quarter of 2022, we adopted a remote first workplace model in the United States, meaning that, except for those employees whose job responsibilities require in-office work, none of our employees are required to work at the office. While we believe allowing employees to work remotely will help us attract and retain talent, transitioning to and operating as a remote first company could negatively impact employee productivity and morale, sales and marketing efforts, customer success efforts, and revenue growth rates or other financial metrics, or create operational or other challenges, any of which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results in any given period, especially if such disruption occurs during or in our preparation for the Medicare annual enrollment period or individual and family health insurance enrollment periods. Technologies in our employees homes may also be more limited or less reliable than those provided in our offices. We may also be exposed to risks associated with the various locations of our remote employees, including compliance with local laws and regulations, and if employees fail to inform us of changes in their work location, we may be exposed to additional risks without our knowledge. If our key personnel or a significant portion of our employees are unable to work effectively in a remote setting or our business operations are otherwise disrupted during the Medicare annual enrollment period or individual and family health insurance enrollment periods, the adverse impact on our business would be particularly pronounced. It may also be difficult for us to preserve our corporate culture, and our employees may have less opportunities to collaborate in meaningful ways, which could harm our ability to retain and recruit employees, innovate and operate our business effectively. Our operations in China involve many risks that could increase expenses, expose us to increased liability and adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our subsidiary in China conducts a portion of our operations, including the maintenance and update of our ecommerce platform and performance of specific tasks within our finance, customer care and enrollment functions. We rely on third-party vendors to communicate with our subsidiary in China. Our business would be harmed if our ability to communicate via these vendors with these employees failed, and we were prevented from promptly updating our software or implementing other changes to our database and systems, among other things. From time to time, we receive inquiries from health insurance carriers relating to our operations in China and the security measures we have implemented to protect data that our employees in China may be able to access. As a part of these inquiries, we have implemented additional security measures relating to our operations in China. Still, we may be required to implement further security measures to continue aspects of our operations in China. We may also be required to bring aspects of our operations in China back to the United States, which could be time-consuming and expensive and harm our operating results and financial condition. Health insurance carriers may also terminate our relationship due to concerns surrounding our China operations, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operations in China also expose us to different laws, rules and regulations, including different intellectual property laws, which are not as protective of our intellectual property as the laws in the United States. United States and Chinese trade laws may also impose restrictions on the importation of programming or technology to or from the United States. We are also subject to anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws, privacy and data security laws, labor laws, tax laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions in China. In recent years, China has adopted laws regulating cybersecurity and data protection. For example, a data security law in China that became effective on September 1, 2021 applies to the usage, collection and protection of data within China and imposes data security obligations and restrictions on transfers of certain data outside of China, including prohibition on providing any data stored in China to law enforcement authorities or judicial bodies outside of China without prior Chinese government approval. There remains considerable uncertainty as to how the data security law is applied, and the regulatory environment continues to evolve. Such laws, regulations and standards are complex, ambiguous and subject to change or interpretation, which create uncertainty regarding compliance. Compliance with these laws and regulations could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our 27 Table of Contents business operations in China. Violation of applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our brand, affect our relationship with our health insurance carriers, and could result in regulatory enforcement actions and the imposition of civil or criminal penalties and fines, any of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be adversely impacted by changes in Chinas economic or political condition, the relationship between China and the United States or other countries, and our ability to continue to conduct our current operations in China. Any such changes may be caused by geopolitical issues, natural disasters, war or other events or circumstances. We have experienced greater competition for qualified personnel in China, which has raised market salaries and increased our compensation costs related to employees in China. If competition for personnel increases further, our compensation expenses could rise considerably or, if we determine to not increase compensation levels, our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel in China may be impaired, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. These risks could cause us to incur increased expenses and could harm our ability to manage our operations effectively and successfully in China. Moreover, any significant or prolonged deterioration in the relationship between the United States and China could adversely affect our operations in China. Certain risks and uncertainties of doing business in China are solely within the control of the Chinese government, and Chinese law regulates the scope of our foreign investments and business conducted within China. The escalation of international tensions has increased the risk associated with our operations in China. Either the U.S. or the Chinese government may limit or sever our ability to communicate with our China operations or may take actions that force us to close our operations in China. We employ many of our technology and content employees in China, and we have other employees in China that support our business. Any disruption of our operations in China would adversely impact our business. If we are required to move aspects of our operations out of China because of political or geopolitical issues, changes in laws, inquiries from health insurance carriers or for other reasons, we could incur increased expenses, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Our self-insurance programs may expose us to significant and unexpected costs and losses. To help control our overall long-term costs associated with employee health benefits, we began maintaining a substantial portion of our U.S. employee health insurance benefits on a self-insured basis effective January 1, 2023. To limit our exposure, we have third party stop-loss insurance coverage which sets a limit on our liability for both individual and aggregate claim costs. We record a liability for our estimated cost of U.S. claims incurred but unpaid as of each balance sheet date. Our estimated liability is based on assumptions we believe to be reasonable under the current circumstances and will be adjusted as warranted based on changing circumstances. It is possible, however, that our actual liabilities may exceed our estimates of losses. We may also experience an unexpectedly large number of claims that result in costs or liabilities in excess of our projections, which could cause us to record additional expenses. Our self-insurance reserves could prove to be inadequate, resulting in liabilities in excess of our available insurance and self-insurance. If a successful claim is made against us and is not covered by our insurance or exceeds our policy limits, our business may be negatively and materially impacted. These fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations The marketing and sale of health insurance plans, including Medicare plans, are subject to numerous, complex and frequently changing laws, regulations and guidelines, and non-compliance with or changes in laws, regulations and guidelines could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The marketing and sale of health insurance plans, including Medicare plans, are subject to numerous laws, regulations and guidelines at the federal and state level. Compliance with these evolving laws and regulations may involve significant costs, cause significant delays in our ability to go to market with new marketing and product initiatives and strategies or require changes in our business practices, which could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Non-compliance could also result in fines, damages, prohibitions on the conduct of our business, and damage to our reputation. In particular, the marketing and sale of Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans are principally regulated by CMS but are also subject to state laws. The marketing and sale of Medicare Supplement plans are principally regulated on a state-by-state basis by state departments of insurance. The laws and regulations applicable to the marketing and sale of Medicare plans 28 Table of Contents are numerous, ambiguous and complex, and, particularly with respect to regulations and guidance issued by CMS for Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D prescription drug plans, change frequently. We have altered, and likely will have to continue to alter, our marketing and sales process to comply with these laws, regulations and guidelines. Health insurance carriers whose Medicare plans we sell approve our websites, our advisor enrollment center call scripts and a large portion of our marketing materials. We must receive these approvals in order for us to market and sell Medicare plans to Medicare-eligible individuals as an insurance agent. We are also required to file many of these materials on a regular basis with CMS. In addition, certain aspects of our Medicare plan marketing partner relationships have been in the past, and will be in the future, subjected to CMS and health insurance carrier review. CMS, state departments of insurance or health insurance carriers may decide to object to or not to approve aspects of our online platforms, sales function or marketing material and processes and may determine that certain existing aspects of our Medicare-related business are not in compliance with legal requirements. CMS scrutinizes health insurance carriers whose Medicare plans we sell, and those health insurance carriers may be held responsible for actions that we, our agents and our partners take, including our marketing materials and actions that lead to complaints or disenrollment. We expect that health insurance carriers will be increasingly evaluating broker performance based on quality of their enrollments, including complaints, retention rates, customer satisfaction and volumes. As a result, health insurance carriers may terminate their relationship with us or require us to take other corrective action if our Medicare product sales, marketing and operations are not in compliance or give rise to too many complaints. The termination of or change in our relationship with health insurance carriers for this reason could reduce the products we are able to offer, could result in the loss of commissions for past and future sales and could otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes to the laws, regulations and guidelines relating to the sale of health insurance plans and related products and services, their interpretation or the manner in which they are enforced could impact the manner in which we conduct our business, our ecommerce platforms or our sale of Medicare plans and other products, or we could be prevented from operating certain aspects of our revenue-generating activities altogether, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from CMS or state departments of insurance regarding our marketing and business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. Inquiries and proceedings initiated by the government could adversely impact our health insurance licenses, require us to pay fines, require us to modify marketing and business practices, result in litigation and otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In April 2023, CMS released final versions of the rules initially proposed in December 2022. The finalized rules, among other things, require us and our partners to provide to consumers additional disclaimers that may direct them away from our enrollment platform and towards government owned or operated enrollment channels or other platforms, add complications to the Medicare marketing material filing and review process, increase CMS and insurance carrier monitoring of third party marketing organizations (TPMOs) such as us, add requirements on agents enrolling beneficiaries in Medicare plans, limit marketing of plan benefits and cost savings, require lengthy new disclosures that make certain forms of marketing infeasible, potentially require a 48-hour waiting period between initial contact with a beneficiary and enrolling that beneficiary in certain circumstances, and limit the time we may contact beneficiaries about Medicare plan options to six months after the beneficiary gives us permission for such contact. These additional requirements could impede or otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There may be further potential impact on the business upon the release of any new guidance and sub-regulatory guidance. In December 2023, CMS released Proposed Rules (Proposed Rules) slated for finalization for calendar year 2025 focused on curtailing the broker compensation amounts paid to agents and brokers as well as to limit the permissible services and additional payments received for administrative services. Limitation on Contract Terms. If enacted as proposed, the Proposed Rules would prohibit the following: renewal of contracts between brokers and carriers contingent on higher rates of enrollment; payment by carriers to brokers for marketing activities contingent upon meeting specified enrollment quotas; bonus payments based on enrollment volume; and enrolling beneficiaries into specific plans for a reason other than what best meets their health care needs. Cap on Compensation Rates. The Proposed Rules would classify all carrier payments as enrollment-based compensation (commonly called commissions), including payments for administrative activities previously excluded from the CMS-determined commission amount (currently, $601 in most states). 29 Table of Contents Administrative Payments. The Proposed Rules would suggest a $31 increase in payment under the compensation rate beginning in 2025 to cover the fair market value of licensing, training and testing requirements, as well as recording and retention requirements. This $31 would replace current administrative fees, which are currently not defined by a dollar amount by CMS but are limited to the fair value of the services provided in the market. These additional requirements, if enacted as proposed, could impede or otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. There may be further potential impact on the business upon the release of any new guidance and sub-regulatory guidance. Also in December 2023, the FCC released a new ruling, likely to become effective around March 2025. The new rules require one-to-one consent under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), allow blocking of red flagged robotexting numbers, codify do-not-call rules for texting, and encourage an opt-in approach for delivering email-to-text messages. These additional requirements may impact the viability of partnerships that we use for marketing efforts and could impede or otherwise harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes and developments in the health insurance industry or system, including changes in laws and regulations, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business depends upon the private sector of the U.S. health insurance system, including the Medicare program, which is subject to a changing regulatory environment at both the federal and state level. Changes and developments in the health insurance system and Medicare program in the United States could reduce demand for our services and harm our business. Ongoing health care reform efforts and measures may expand the role of government-sponsored coverage, including proposals for single payer or so called Medicare-for-All or other proposals that may have the effect of reducing or eliminating the market for our current range of health insurance products, which could have far-reaching implications for the health insurance industry if enacted. Some proposals would seek to eliminate the private marketplace while others would expand a government-sponsored option to a larger population or otherwise increase government oversight or competition in the sector or reduce the fees or commissions payable to brokers under the Medicare program. We are unable to predict the full impact of health care reform initiatives or other regulatory changes on our operations in light of the uncertainty of whether initiatives will be successful and the uncertainty regarding the terms and timing of any provisions enacted and the impact of any of those provisions on various healthcare and insurance industry participants. Changes to the Medicare program or the broader health insurance system as a result of elections or political developments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the event that laws, regulations or rules that eliminate or reduce private sources of health insurance or Medicare are adopted, the demand for our products could be adversely impacted, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. In addition, each state regulates its insurance market, including by regulating the ability of insurance companies to set premiums and prohibiting brokers and agents such as eHealth from competing in certain ways, such as offering price reductions and rebates or marketing in certain ways. The laws and regulations governing the offer, sale and purchase of health insurance are complex and subject to change, and future changes may be adverse to our business. For example, a long-standing provision in most applicable state laws that we believe is advantageous to our business is that once health insurance premiums are set by the carrier and approved by state regulators, they are fixed and not generally subject to negotiation or discounting by insurance companies or agents. Additionally, state regulations generally prohibit carriers, agents and brokers from providing financial incentives, such as rebates, to their members in connection with the sale of health insurance. As a result, we do not currently compete with carriers or other agents and brokers on the price of the health insurance plans offered on our website. Changes in, or enforcement of, or compliance with, such regulations could impact consumers demand for our services or cause health insurance carriers to lower our commission rates, which could reduce our revenue. Our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects may be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to adapt to regulatory changes. From time to time, we are subject to various legal proceedings which could adversely affect our business. We are, and may in the future become, involved in various legal proceedings and governmental inquiries, including labor and employment-related claims, claims relating to our marketing or sale of health insurance, 30 Table of Contents intellectual property claims and claims relating to our compliance with securities laws. For example, in January 2022, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorneys Office for the District of Massachusetts, seeking, among other things, information regarding our arrangements with insurance carriers, and we may receive similar inquiries in the future. Such inquiries and any other claims asserted against us, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, may be expensive to address and may divert managements attention and other resources. These claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages, jeopardize our licenses to operate and harm our reputation. Our insurance and indemnities may not cover all claims that may be asserted against us. If we are unsuccessful in our defense in these legal proceedings, we may be forced to pay damages or fines, enter into consent decrees, stop offering our services or change our business practices, any of which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be unable to operate our business if we fail to maintain our health insurance licenses and otherwise comply with the numerous laws and regulations applicable to the sale of health insurance. We are required to maintain a valid license in each state in which we transact health insurance business and to adhere to sales, documentation and administration practices specific to that state. We must maintain our health insurance licenses to continue selling plans and to continue to receive commissions from health insurance carriers. In addition, each employee who transacts health insurance business on our behalf must maintain a valid license in one or more states. Because we maintain health insurance licenses to do business in all 50 states and the District of Columbia, compliance with health insurance-related laws, rules and regulations is difficult and imposes significant costs on our business. Each jurisdictions insurance department typically has the power, among other things, to: grant, limit, suspend and revoke licenses to transact insurance business; conduct inquiries into the insurance-related activities and conduct of agents and agencies; require and regulate disclosure in connection with the sale and solicitation of health insurance; authorize how, by which personnel and under what circumstances insurance premiums can be quoted and published and an insurance policy sold; approve which entities can be paid commissions from carriers and the circumstances under which they may be paid; regulate the content of insurance-related advertisements, including web pages, and other marketing practices; approve policy forms, require specific benefits and benefit levels and regulate premium rates; impose fines and other penalties; and impose continuing education requirements. Due to the complexity, periodic modification and differing interpretations of insurance laws and regulations, we may not have always been, and we may not always be, in compliance with them. New laws, regulations and guidelines also may not be compatible with the sale of health insurance over the Internet or with various aspects of our platform or manner of marketing or selling health insurance plans. Failure to comply with insurance laws, regulations and guidelines or other laws and regulations applicable to our business could result in significant liability, additional department of insurance licensing requirements, required modification of our advertising and business practices, changes to our existing technology or platforms, the limitation, suspension and/or revocation of our licenses to sell health insurance, termination of our relationship with health insurance carriers and loss of commissions and/or our inability to sell health insurance plans, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, an adverse regulatory action in one jurisdiction could result in penalties and adversely affect our license status, business or reputation in other jurisdictions due to the requirement that adverse regulatory actions in one jurisdiction be reported to other jurisdictions. Even if the allegations in any regulatory or other action against us are proven false, any surrounding negative publicity could harm consumer, marketing partner or health insurance carrier confidence in us, which could significantly damage our brand. In addition, as we expand our product base, we may be subject to additional laws and regulations. 31 Table of Contents Increasing regulatory focus on privacy and data security issues and expanding laws could impact our business and expose us to increased liability. Our business is subject to emerging privacy laws being passed at the state level that create unique compliance challenges. Our services involve the collection and storage of confidential and personally identifiable information of consumers and the transmission of certain personal information to their chosen health insurance carriers and to the government. For example, we collect names, addresses, credit card and social security numbers and health information such as information regarding consumers prescription drugs and providers. We also hold a significant amount of personal information relating to our current and former employees. As a result, we are subject to various state and federal laws and contractual requirements regarding the access, use and disclosure of personal information. Compliance with state and federal privacy-related laws, particularly new state legislation such as the California Consumer Privacy Act and recent amendments thereto, and increasingly robust industry standard security frameworks will result in cost increases due to an increased need for privacy compliance, oversight and monitoring, and the development of new processes to effectuate and demonstrate compliance. The effects of potential non-compliance by us or third-party service providers, and enforcement actions, may result in increased costs to our business and reputational harm. The privacy and cybersecurity legislative landscape is rapidly evolving on the state and federal level. Such changes create challenges for businesses to comply with the new legal obligations in a systematic fashion. These new legal operations may change the way we conduct our business and may harm our results of operations and financial condition. Any perception that our practices, products or services violate individual privacy or data protection rights may subject us to public criticism, class action lawsuits, reputational harm, or investigations or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt or adversely impact our business and expose us to increased liability. In the event that additional data privacy or data security laws are implemented, or our health insurance carrier or other partners determine to impose requirements on us relating to data privacy security, we may not be able to timely comply with such requirements or such requirements may not be compatible with our current processes. Changing our processes could be time-consuming and expensive, and failure to timely implement required changes could result in our inability to sell health insurance plans in a particular jurisdiction or for a particular health insurance carrier or subject us to liability for non-compliance, any of which would damage our business, operating results and financial condition. Health insurance carriers that we work with may also require us to comply with additional privacy and data security standards to do business with us at all. Compliance with privacy and data security standards is regularly assessed, and we may not always be compliant with the standards. If we are not in compliance, we may not be able to accept information from consumers, and our relationship with health insurance carriers could be adversely impacted or terminated, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Any legal liability, regulatory penalties, complaints or negative publicity related to us or our services could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We provide information on our website, through our advisor enrollment centers, in our marketing materials and in other ways regarding health insurance in general and the health insurance plans we market and sell, including information relating to insurance premiums, coverage, benefits, provider networks, exclusions, limitations, availability, plan comparisons and insurance company ratings. A significant amount of both automated and manual effort is required to maintain the considerable amount of health insurance plan information on our website. We also use the information provided on our website and otherwise collected by us to publish reports designed to educate consumers, facilitate public debate, and facilitate reform at the state and federal level. If the information we provide on our website, through our advisor enrollment centers, in our marketing materials or otherwise is not accurate or is construed as misleading, or if we do not properly assist individuals and businesses in purchasing health insurance, members, health insurance carriers and others could attempt to hold us liable for damages or require us to take corrective actions, our relationships with health insurance carriers could be terminated or impaired and regulators could attempt to subject us to penalties, force us to stop using our websites, marketing material or certain aspects of them, revoke our licenses to transact health insurance business in a particular jurisdiction, and/or compromise the status of our licenses to transact health insurance business in other jurisdictions, which could result in our loss of our commission revenue and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In the ordinary course of operating our business, we and our health insurance carrier partners have received complaints that the information we provided was not accurate or was misleading. We have received, and may in the future receive, inquiries from health insurance carriers, CMS, state departments of insurance, regulators 32 Table of Contents or other legislative bodies regarding our marketing and business practices and compliance with laws and regulations. We typically respond to these inquiries by explaining how we believe we are in compliance with relevant regulations, or we may modify our practices in connection with the inquiry. For example, we received a letter from the Committee on Finance of the United States Senate in January 2024 requesting information relating to our business practices related to lead generation, marketing and enrollment in Medicare Advantage health plans. These types of inquiries and associated claims could be time-consuming and expensive to respond to or address, could divert our managements attention and other resources, could impact our relationships with health insurance carriers and could cause a loss of confidence in our services. As a result, whether or not we are able to successfully resolve these claims, they could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to contact our consumers or market the availability of our products through specific channels. We use email and telephone, among other channels, to market our services to potential members and as the primary means of communicating with our existing members. The laws and regulations governing the use of email and telephone calls for marketing purposes continue to evolve, and changes in technology, the marketplace or consumer preferences may lead to the adoption of additional laws or regulations or changes in interpretation of existing laws or regulations. If new laws or regulations are adopted, or existing laws and regulations are interpreted or enforced, to impose additional restrictions on our ability to send email or telephone messages to our members or potential members, we may not be able to communicate with them in a cost-effective manner. For example, we use telephones to communicate with customers and prospective customers, and some of these communications may be subject to the TCPA and other telemarketing laws, including state laws, that restrict our ability to market using the telephone in certain respects. The TCPA prohibits us from using an automatic telephone dialing system or prerecorded or artificial voices to make certain telephone calls to consumers without prior express written consent and provides for statutory damages of $500 for each violation and $1,500 for each willful violation. While we have policies in place to comply with the TCPA and other telemarketing laws, we have been in the past, and may in the future become, subject to claims that we have violated the TCPA. In the event that we were found to have violated the TCPA, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. The TCPA and other laws and regulations relating to telemarketing are also subject to periodic updates and changes in enforcement and litigation risks. In addition to legal restrictions on the use of email, Internet service providers, email service providers and others attempt to block the transmission of unsolicited email, commonly known as spam. Many Internet and email service providers have relationships with organizations whose purpose is to detect and notify the Internet and email service providers of entities that the organization believes is sending unsolicited email. If an Internet or email service provider identifies email from us as spam as a result of reports from these organizations or otherwise, we can be placed on a restricted list that will block our email to members or potential members. Similarly, telephone carriers may block or put consumer warnings on calls originating from call centers. Consumers increasingly screen their incoming emails and telephone calls, including by using screening tools and warnings, and therefore our members or potential members may not reliably receive our emails or telephone messages, whether or not such messages constitute marketing. If we are unable to communicate effectively by email or telephone with our members and potential members as a result of legislation, legal or regulatory actions, blockage, screening technologies or otherwise, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Risks Related to Finance, Accounting and Tax Matters Our commission revenue could be negatively impacted by changes in our estimated conversion rate of an approved member to a paying member, our forecast of average plan duration or our forecast of likely commission amounts. Our commission revenue, which is primarily comprised of commissions from health insurance carriers, is computed using the estimated LTVs of commission payments that we expect to receive, and we re-compute LTVs for all outstanding cohorts on a quarterly basis. As a result, the rate at which consumers visiting our ecommerce platforms and advisor enrollment centers seeking to purchase health insurance are converted into approved members directly impacts our revenue. In addition, the rate at which consumers who are approved become paying members impacts the constrained LTV of our approved members, which impacts the revenue that we are able to recognize. 33 Table of Contents A number of factors have influenced, and could in the future influence, these conversion rates for any given period, some of which are outside of our control. These factors include, but are not limited to: changes in consumer shopping behavior due to circumstances outside of our control, such as economic conditions, inflation, public health crises or illnesses, consumers ability or willingness to pay for health insurance, adverse events or perceptions affecting the U.S. or international financial systems, adverse weather conditions or natural disasters, unemployment rates, availability of unemployment benefits or proposed or enacted legislative or regulatory changes impacting our business, including health care reform; the quality of and changes to the consumer experience on our ecommerce platforms and/or with our advisor enrollment centers; regulatory requirements, including those that make the experience on our ecommerce platforms cumbersome or difficult to navigate or reduce the ability of consumers to purchase plans outside of enrollment periods; the variety, competitiveness, quality and affordability of the health insurance plans that we offer; system failures or interruptions in the operation of our ecommerce platform or advisor enrollment center operations; changes in the mix of consumers who are referred to us through our direct, marketing partner and strategic partner marketing member acquisition channels, including the quality of sales leads; health insurance carrier guidelines applicable to applications submitted by consumers, the degree to which our technology is integrated with health insurance carriers, the amount of time a carrier takes to make a decision on that application and the percentage of submitted applications approved by health insurance carriers; the effectiveness of our benefit advisors in assisting consumers, including the tenure of the health insurance agent; and our ability to enroll subsidy-eligible individuals in qualified health plans through government-run health insurance exchanges and the efficacy of the process we are required to use to do so. Our conversion rates can be impacted by changes in the mix of consumers referred to us through our member acquisition channelsand whether they interact with a more seasoned health insurance agent. We have made and may in the future, make changes to our ecommerce platforms, telephonic operations, marketing material or enrollment process in response to regulatory or health insurance carrier requirements or undertake other initiatives in an attempt to improve consumer experience, increase retention, or for other reasons. These changes have had in the past, and may have in the future, the unintended consequence of adversely impacting our conversion rates. A decline in the percentage of consumers who submit health insurance applications on our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our advisor enrollment centers and are converted into approved and paying members could cause an increase in our cost of acquiring members on a per member basis and impact our revenue in any given period. To the extent the rate at which we convert consumers visiting our ecommerce platforms or telephonically via our advisor enrollment centers into members suffers, our membership may decline, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operating results will be impacted by factors that impact our estimate of the constrained LTV of commissions per approved member. We recognize revenue for plans approved during the period by applying the latest estimated constrained LTVs for that product. Constrained LTVs are estimates and are based on a number of assumptions, which include, but are not limited to, estimates of the conversion rates of approved members into paying members, forecasted average plan duration and forecasted commissions we expect to receive per approved members plan. These assumptions are based on historical trends and require significant judgment by our management in interpreting those trends and in applying the constraints. Changes in our historical trends will result in changes to our constrained LTV estimates in future periods and therefore could adversely affect our revenue and financial results in those future periods. As a result, negative changes in the factors upon which we estimate constrained LTVs, such as reduced conversion of approved members to paying members, increased health insurance plan terminations or a 34 Table of Contents reduction in the lifetime commission amounts we expect to receive for selling the plan to a member or other changes could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in LTV may result in an increase or a decrease to revenue and a corresponding increase or decrease to commissions receivable. In addition, if we ultimately receive commission payments that are less than the amount we estimated when we recognized commission revenue, we would need to write off the remaining commissions receivable balance, which would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. The rate at which approved members become paying members is a significant factor in our estimation of constrained LTVs. To the extent we experience a decline in the rate at which approved members turn into our paying members, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. The forecasted average plan duration is another important factor in our estimation of constrained LTV. When a plan is canceled, or if we otherwise do not remain the agent on the policy, we no longer receive the related commission payment. Our forecasted average plan duration and health insurance plan termination rate are calculated based on our historical data by plan type. As a result, a reduction in our forecasted average plan duration or an inability to produce accurate forecasted average plan duration may adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Commission rates are also a significant factor in our estimation of constrained LTVs. The commission rates we receive are impacted by a variety of factors, including the particular health insurance plans chosen by our members, the carriers offering those plans, our members states of residence, the laws and regulations in those jurisdictions, the average premiums of plans purchased through us and health care reform. Our commission revenue per member has in the past decreased, and could in the future decrease, as a result of reductions in contractual commission rates, a change in the mix of carriers whose products we sell during a given period and increased health insurance plan termination rates, all of which are beyond our control and may occur on short notice. To the extent these and other factors cause our commission revenue per member to decline, our revenue may decline, and our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. Given that Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance purchasing is concentrated during enrollment periods, we may experience a shift in the mix of Medicare-related and individual and family health insurance products selected by our members over a short period of time. Any reduction in our average commission revenue per member caused by such a shift or otherwise would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. The determination of constraints is also a factor that requires significant management judgment. Constraints are applied to LTVs for revenue recognition purposes and help ensure that the total estimated lifetime commissions expected to be collected from an approved members plan are recognized as revenue only to the extent that is probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognized will not occur when the uncertainty associated with future commissions receivable from the plan is subsequently resolved. We determine the constraint for each product by comparing cash collection patterns to our assumptions and analyze the drivers for variations. We then apply judgment in assessing whether the difference between historical cash collections and LTV is representative of differences that can be expected in future periods. We also analyze whether circumstances have changed and consider any known or potential modifications to the inputs into LTV in light of the factors that can impact the amount of cash expected to be collected in future periods including but not limited to commission rates, carrier mix, plan duration, changes in laws and regulations and cancellations of insurance plans offered by health insurance carriers with which we have a relationship. We evaluate the appropriateness of our constraints on an ongoing basis, and we update our assumptions when we observe a sufficient amount of evidence that would suggest that the long-term expectation underlying the assumptions has changed. While we have recognized positive net adjustment revenue in the recent past, there can be no assurance that we will continue to recognize positive net adjustment revenue. If we underestimate the initial constraint applied to LTVs, we might be required to increase the constraint or record an impairment in a future period, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If commission reports we receive from carriers are inaccurate or not sent to us in a timely manner, our business and operating results could be harmed, and we may not recognize trends in our membership. We rely on health insurance carriers to timely and accurately report the amount of commissions earned by us, and we calculate our commission revenue, prepare our financial reports, projections and budgets and direct our marketing and other operating efforts based on the reports we receive from health insurance carriers. There have 35 Table of Contents been instances where we have determined that plan cancellation data reported to us by a health insurance carrier has not been accurate. The extent to which health insurance carriers are inaccurate in their reporting of plan cancellations could cause us to change our cancellation estimates, which could adversely impact our revenue. We have designed controls to assess the completeness and accuracy of the data received, whereby we apply judgment and make estimates based on historical data and current trends to independently determine whether or not carriers are accurately reporting commissions due to us. We also operate procedures with carriers on an ongoing basis whereby potential under or over reporting is reconciled and discrepancies are resolved. For instance, we reconcile information health insurance carriers provide to us and may determine that we were not historically paid commissions owed to us, which would cause us to have underestimated our membership. Conversely, health insurance carriers may require us to return commission payments paid in a prior period due to plan cancellations for members we previously estimated as being active. To the extent that health insurance carriers understate or fail to accurately report the amount of commissions due to us in a timely manner or at all, our estimates of constrained LTV may be adversely impacted, which would harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, any inaccuracies in the reporting from and reconciliations with insurance carriers may also impact our estimates of constrained LTV or our estimates of commission revenue for future periods which is based on historical trends, including trends relating to contracted commission rates and expected health insurance plan cancellation. We do not receive information about membership cancellations from our health insurance carriers directly, which makes it difficult for us to determine the impact of current conditions on our membership retention and to accurately estimate membership as of a specific date. We depend on health insurance carriers and others for data related to our membership. For instance, with respect to health insurance plans, health insurance carriers do not directly report member cancellations to us. Other than small business health insurance, we infer cancellations from payment data that carriers provide by analyzing whether payments from members have ceased for a period of time, and we may not learn of a cancellation for several months. The majority of our members who terminate their plans do so by discontinuing their insurance premium payments to the carrier or notifying the carrier, and do not inform us of the cancellation. With respect to our small business membership, groups generally notify the carrier directly of policy cancellations and increases or decreases in group size. Our insurance carrier partners often do not communicate this information to us, and it often takes a significant amount of time for us to learn about small business group cancellations and changes in our membership within the group itself. We often are not made aware of policy cancellations until the time of the groups annual renewal. Given the number of months required to observe non-payment of commissions in order to confirm cancellations, we estimate the number of members who are active on health insurance plans as of a specified date. After we have estimated membership for a period, we may receive information from health insurance carriers that would have impacted the estimate if we had received the information prior to the date of estimation. We may receive commission payments or other information that indicates that a member who was not included in our estimates for a prior period was in fact an active member at that time, or that a member who was included in our estimates was in fact not an active member of ours. As a result of the Medicare annual enrollment and other open enrollment periods, we may not receive information from our carriers on as timely a basis due to the significant increase in health insurance transaction volume and for other reasons, which could impair the accuracy of our membership estimates. For these and other reasons, including if current trends in membership cancellation are inconsistent with past cancellation trends that we use to estimate our membership or if carriers subsequently report changes to the commission payments that they previously reported to us, our actual membership could be different from our estimates, perhaps materially. If our actual membership is different from our estimates, the constrained LTV component of our revenue recognition could also be inaccurate, including as a result of an inaccurate estimate of the average amount of time our members maintain their health insurance plans. As a result of the delay that we experience in receiving information about our membership, it is difficult for us to determine with any certainty the impact of current conditions on our membership retention. Various circumstances, including market-related factors such as changes in timing of enrollment periods, the ability of enrollees to change their health plan outside of the Medicare annual enrollment period, the source of referrals, their enrollment experience and other factors specific to our business, could cause the assumptions and estimates that we make in connection with estimating our membership to be inaccurate, which would cause our membership estimates to be inaccurate. 36 Table of Contents Our agreements with our lender and our convertible preferred stock investor contain restrictions that impact our business and expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. On February 28, 2022, we entered into a term loan credit agreement with Blue Torch Finance LLC, as administrative agent and collateral agent, and other lenders party thereto, which was amended on August 16, 2022 (as amended, the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement provides us with $70 million in term loans, the proceeds from which transaction were used to terminate our then-existing $75 million revolving credit facility with Royal Bank of Canada. The Credit Agreement contains certain mandatory prepayment triggers and imposes certain covenants and restrictions on our business and our ability to obtain additional financing. The Credit Agreement contains customary affirmative covenants, including covenants regarding the payment of taxes and other obligations, maintenance of insurance, reporting requirements and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Credit Agreement also contains restrictions that limit our ability to, among other things, incur debt, grant liens, make certain restricted payments, make fundamental changes, sell assets, transact with affiliates, enter into burdensome agreements, prepay certain indebtedness or modify our organizational documents, in each case, subject to certain exceptions. Further, the Credit Agreement contains financial covenants requiring us to (x) maintain a minimum level of liquidity as of the end of each month and (y) maintain a ratio such that the outstanding amount of obligations under the Credit Agreement at the end of any month does not exceed 50% of the value of certain commissions receivable as of the end of such month. The events of default under the Credit Agreement include, among other things and subject to grace periods in certain instances, payment defaults, cross defaults with certain other material indebtedness, breaches of covenants or representations and warranties, changes in control of our company, certain bankruptcy and insolvency events with respect to us and our subsidiaries, a restriction on all or a material portion of our business and the indictment of us or any subsidiary (or any senior officer thereof), or criminal proceedings against the same, which could result in a forfeiture of a material portion of our and our subsidiaries properties. If we experience a decline in cash flow due to any of the factors described in this Risk Factors section or otherwise, we could have difficulty paying interest and principal amounts due on our indebtedness and meeting the financial covenants set forth in our Credit Agreement. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain the funds necessary to make required payments under the Credit Agreement, or if we fail to comply with the requirements of our indebtedness, we could default under our Credit Agreement. Any default that is not waived could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the Credit Agreement, an increase in the applicable interest rate under the credit facility, and would permit our lender to exercise rights and remedies with respect to all of the collateral that is securing the Credit Agreement, which includes substantially all of our assets. Any such default could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. On February 17, 2021, we entered into an investment agreement with Echelon Health SPV, LP (H.I.G.), pursuant to which H.I.G. purchased 2.25 million of Series A convertible preferred stock (Series A Preferred Stock) for an aggregate price of $225 million (the H.I.G. Investment Agreement). The H.I.G. Investment Agreement contains certain negative operating covenants that will remain in effect for so long as H.I.G. continues to own at least 30% of the shares of Series A Preferred Stock originally issued to it. the Company is required to maintain an Asset Coverage Ratio (as defined in the H.I.G. Investment Agreement) of at least 2.0x, calculated on a quarterly basis, which increased to 2.5x in August of 2023 (the Minimum Asset Coverage Ratio). The first measurement date of the 2.5x Minimum Asset Coverage Ratio was September 30, 2023. Additionally, the H.I.G. Investment Agreement requires the Company to maintain a Minimum Liquidity Amount (as defined in the H.I.G. Investment Agreement) for certain periods that ranges from $65.0 million to $125.0 million. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with the Minimum Liquidity Amount. However, we have not met the Minimum Asset Coverage Ratio since the September 30, 2023 measurement date. Failure to maintain the Minimum Asset Coverage Ratio or the Minimum Liquidity Amount as of the date or the time period required by the H.I.G. Investment Agreement, for as long as H.I.G. continues to own at least 30% of the Series A Preferred Stock originally issued to it in the private placement, entitles H.I.G., subject to conditions and restrictions specified therein, to additional rights, including the right to nominate one additional member to our Board of Directors, the right to approve our annual budget, the right to approve the hiring or termination of certain key executives and the right to approve the incurrence of certain indebtedness. 37 Table of Contents These restrictions on the conduct of our business imposed by our lender or H.I.G. could materially adversely affect our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers, acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be beneficial to the business. Even if the Credit Agreement were terminated, additional debt we could incur in the future may subject us to similar or additional covenants, which could place restrictions on the operation of our business. Similarly, our investment or financing arrangement with any future investors may subject us to similar or additional covenants. Operating and growing our business is likely to require additional capital, and if capital is not available to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may suffer. Operating and growing our business is expected to require further investments in our business. We have generated negative cash from operating activities and may continue to generate negative cash from operating activities in the future. We may from time to time seek to raise additional capital through debt and/or equity financing to pursue strategic initiatives or make investments in our business. If we seek to raise funds through debt or equity financing, those funds may prove to be unavailable, may only be available on terms that are not acceptable to us or may result in significant dilution to our stockholders or higher levels of leverage. Our term loan under the Credit Agreement matures in February 2025. Our ability to refinance our existing or future indebtedness will depend on the capital markets, including prevailing interest rates, and our financial condition and performance, which, among other things, is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. In addition, our Credit Agreement and the H.I.G. Investment Agreement contain restrictions that limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, issue certain types of equity securities with rights and preferences senior to or pari passu with our Series A Preferred Stock, make certain types of investments or obtain additional financing. Pursuant to the terms of the H.I.G. Investment Agreement, we are currently required to obtain the consent of H.I.G. in order to incur certain indebtedness, which could limit our ability to obtain additional financing. If we are unable to refinance our existing or future indebtedness, we cannot obtain adequate financing or we cannot obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, we may default on our existing or future indebtedness, and our ability to continue to pursue our business objectives and to respond to business opportunities or challenges could be harmed, and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and our stock price. We have a complex business organization. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting