Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere. Any and all statements contained in this Annual Report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Terms such as may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and terms of similar import (including the negative of any of the foregoing) may be intended to identify forward-looking statements. However, not all forward-looking statements may contain one or more of these identifying terms. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report may include, without limitation, statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans or objectives relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) the manufacturing of our products and strengthening our supply chain, and potential opportunities for strategic partnerships, (iii) future financial performance, including any projection of income (including income/loss), earnings (including earnings/loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items, (iv) our future financial performance, including any statement contained in a discussion and analysis of financial condition by management or in the results of operations included pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), (v) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities, including for exoskeleton technology in general and, our exoskeleton products in particular and for strategic partnerships, (vi) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, (vii) the impact and effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and other risk factors on our business, results of operations or prospects, and (viii) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i) through (viii) above. The forward-looking statements are not meant to predict or guarantee actual results, performance, events or circumstances and may not be realized because they are based upon our current projections, plans, objectives, beliefs, expectations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and other influences, many of which we have no control over. Actual results and the timing of certain events and circumstances may differ materially from those described by the forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties. Factors that may influence or contribute to the inaccuracy of the forward-looking statements or cause actual results to differ materially from expected or desired results may include, without limitation, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the Companys financial condition and business, the highly competitive markets in which the Companys products are sold, the Company's significant losses to date and anticipated future losses, the new and unproven nature of the market for the Companys products, the long and variable sales cycles for the Companys products, the factors outside the Companys control that affect the international sales of its products, the costs related to and impacts of potential failure of the Company to obtain or maintain protection for the Company's intellectual property rights, the failure of the Company to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market the Company's medical devices, risks related to product liability, recall and warranty claims, the volatility of the market price of and limited trading in our common stock. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described by the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report appears in the section captioned Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because of the risks and uncertainties related to them and to the risk factors. We disclaim any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect any new information or future events or circumstances or otherwise. Readers should read this Annual Report in conjunction with the discussion under the caption Risk Factors, our financial statements and the related notes thereto in this Annual Report, and other documents which we may file from time to time with the SEC. Notes regarding references to Ekso Bionics In this Annual Report, the Company, we, its and our refers to Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Ekso Bionics refers to Ekso Bionics, Inc. as it existed prior to the January 15, 2014 merger of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ekso Acquisition Corp., with and into Ekso Bionics, Inc. or the Merger. Ekso Bionics was the surviving corporation in the Merger and became our wholly-owned subsidiary, and all of the outstanding Ekso Bionics stock was converted into shares of our common stock. Ekso , Ekso Bionics , EksoVest , EksoWorks , EksoGT , EksoNR , EksoZeroG , EVO TM , EksoUE , and EksoPulse are registered and unregistered trademarks of the Company. All other trademarks that may appear in this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop, sell, and rent exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple markets and can be utilized both by able-bodied users and persons with physical disabilities. We have sold or rented devices that (i) enable individuals with neurological conditions affecting gait (acquired brain injury, or ABI, and spinal cord injury, or SCI) to rehabilitate, and in some cases, to walk again, (ii) assist individuals with a broad range of upper extremity impairments, and (iii) allow industrial workers to perform difficult repetitive work for extended periods. We believe that the commercial opportunity for exoskeleton technology adoption is accelerating as a result of recent advancements in material technologies, electronic and electrical engineering, control technologies, and sensor and software development. Taken individually, many of these advancements have become ubiquitous in peoples everyday lives. Supported by an industry-leading intellectual property portfolio, we believe that we have learned how to integrate these existing technologies; wrapping the result around a human being efficiently, elegantly and safely. We further believe that we can do so across a broad spectrum of applications, from persons with lower limb paralysis to able-bodied users. For medical applications we have two primary products. EksoNR is used as a rehabilitation tool to allow physicians and therapists to rehabilitate patients who have suffered a stroke or spinal cord injury. In June 2020, we received 501(k) clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, to market our EksoNR for use with patients with ABI. With its unique features designed specifically for hospitals and its proprietary SmartAssist software, EksoNR allows for the early mobilization of patients and, increased endurance during rehabilitation sessions through higher step counts and extended training durations. The intent is to allow the patient's central nervous system to take advantage of a patient's neuroplasticity to maximize recovery. EksoUE is a wearable upper body exoskeleton that assists patients with a broad range of upper extremity impairments and aims to provide a wider active range of motion, increased endurance, and heightened intensity during rehabilitation sessions. For able-bodied industrial workers, we built on the leading market position we achieved with EksoVest and EksoZeroG by introducing EVO, a new wearable exoskeleton for overhead work. Like EksoVest, EVO is an upper body exoskeleton that elevates and supports a worker's arms to assist them with tasks ranging from chest height to overhead. Based on extensive customer feedback, EVO was designed specifically to increase adoption of exoskeletons in the workplace. Compared to EksoVest, EVO is lighter weight, lower profile, lower cost, and has minimal contact with the body, making it comfortable to wear while enabling an even broader free range of motion. The goal is for workers using EVO to experience lower levels of fatigue and reduce on-site injuries while boosting productivity. In 2020, we introduced EVO into targeted vertical markets including food processing, specific construction trades, and manufacturing. EksoHealth - Rehabilitation Today, we focus our healthcare business on rehabilitation robotics. We are leveraging our patented exoskeleton technology to develop and market products intended to enable patients with lower limb impairments to rehabilitate earlier and with better outcomes than the current standard of care. EksoNR Our leading product, EksoNR, is a wearable bionic suit that allows our hospital and rehabilitation customers to provide in-patients and out-patients the ability to stand and walk over ground while the device makes real-time adjustments to correct issues with the patients reciprocal gait. Patients receive therapy in the device under the supervision of a physical therapist, and typically use an additional assistive device such as a cane, crutches or a walker. Walking is achieved by a user shifting their weight, requiring the user to achieve balance thereby replicating and reinforcing the movements of a natural gait. If needed, some patients utilize sensors in the device which assist in step initiation. Battery-powered motors drive the legs, detecting the deficient neuromuscular function and providing the level of assistance necessary for a user to complete their step. Users can expect to walk, with aid from the device, the first time they put on the EksoNR exoskeleton (after passing an assessment). Physical therapists can transfer patients to or from their wheelchair and don or remove the EksoNR in less than ten minutes. 4 Table of Contents The EksoNR incorporates SmartAssist, our proprietary, adaptive software that allows a patient to perform to their capability but dynamically provides 0-100% power on either side of the body as needed for successful walking. SmartAssist can promote a greater number of high-quality steps in a short time period and support the early re-learning of correct step patterns and weight shifts, potentially mitigating compensatory behaviors. SmartAssist also has allowed our customers to significantly expand the spectrum of patients that can potentially benefit from robotic rehabilitation. In addition, SmartAssist can aid in promoting early mobility by training patients (PreGait) to walk in an exoskeleton.We believe this expands access of care to additional patients. SmartAssist also includes next generation Variable Assist technology. Variable Assist allows healthcare providers to adjust the level of assistance provided by the EksoNR as necessary, in some instances allowing patients to power themselves (FreeGait). Another important feature of our EksoNR is its EksoPulse Analytics, a real-time data capture program. EksoPulse gathers and transmits statistics and device information during EksoNR walking sessions. This information can be used to track patient progression and to monitor device utilization. The EksoNR records data such as steps, speed, step size, and other settings along with error logs and operating parameters. Data is sent securely to our servers where it is available for customers to view, filter, and export through a secure web portal. This feature enables more thorough patient care while reducing manual data entry. It also enables us to provide a higher level of service through early identification and thorough reporting of device errors, saving customers the time and expense of unnecessary on-site visits. The EksoNR is used by customers in both in-patient and out-patient settings. Our customers believe that for patients with some preserved motor ability (for example, after a stroke, a traumatic brain injury (TBI), or an incomplete SCI), the EksoNR exoskeleton offers unique benefits. It helps therapists teach proper step patterns and weight shifts, allowing patients potentially to mobilize earlier and ultimately to walk again. By allowing individuals to stand and walk in a full weight-bearing setting, early clinical evidence is beginning to show, that EksoNR may offer potential healthcare benefits (inclusive of patients with complete SCI). These benefits include a reduction in secondary complications such as pressure sores, urinary tract infections, bowel problems, pneumonia and other respiratory issues, bone loss/osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease and psychological disorders resulting in reduced post injury medical costs. EksoGT EksoGT, previously our leading rehabilitation product, has been superseded by EksoNR. We may still sell small quantities of EksoGT into certain foreign countries while awaiting regulatory clearance for our EksoNR. For existing customers with one or more previously purchased EksoGT, we offer an upgrade package. As of December 31, 2020, we had shipped over 500 EksoGT and EksoNR units combined to over 400 rehabilitation facilities or customers worldwide. The number of units utilized at a facility varies from one to six, and is driven by the number of beds and rehabilitation sessions a hospital can offer and that hospitals adoption of robotics within its rehabilitation protocols. EksoUE In 2019, we entered the market for upper extremity rehabilitation devices with EksoUE. EksoUE is a wearable assistive device that helps to reduce the effect of gravity on the wearers shoulders and arms. While worn, EksoUE allows longer, more intense rehabilitation sessions by reducing fatigue, while also allowing the patient to achieve a larger active range of motion. Similar to EksoNR, EksoUE is a tool for use by trained clinicians, primarily physical and occupational therapists, during rehabilitation sessions. Based on the same technology that is used in our industrial products, EksoUE uses a passive (non-motorized) design which avoids the need to charge or manage batteries and other electrical systems. Market Overview Rehabilitation clinics with significant stroke, TBI, and SCI populations comprise the primary market for our medical products. Due to their chronic nature, we believe that these conditions have an enormous clinical and economic impact on both people with the conditions and the healthcare system. According to the Centers for Disease Control, there are approximately 800,000 strokes suffered per year in the U.S. and approximately 15 million worldwide, making stroke rehabilitation our largest target market. Likewise, according to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, there are approximately 18,000 incidences of SCI per year in the U.S., and according to the World Health Organization, between 250,000 to 500,000 incidences worldwide. While the market opportunity for robotic exoskeleton rehabilitation may be large, we also recognize that the path for medical devices to become the standard of care is long and challenging. We believe that our ability to accelerate adoption will also be based, in part, on our ability to build on our partners early efforts: (i) to expand clinical evidence and (ii) to drive toward 5 Table of Contents standard of care. We are already seeing customers appreciate that one way for stroke patients at in-patient facilities to receive the recommended amount of rehabilitation per guidelines is by using an EksoNR, the only device currently in the market that has the versatility to provide an over-ground gait training intervention that is task-specific, high intensity and allows for a margin of error, across the continuum of care. Clinical Evidence Many of our early clinical customers have participated in research focusing on safety and feasibility of exoskeletons and robotics in rehabilitation market development. These early studies were favorable and have further developed to focus on efficacy and outcomes. EksoNR technology is one of the most studied exoskeletons in the market. World-renowned institutions are leading the charge in research focused on acquired brain injury, stroke, spinal cord injury, multiple sclerosis and others. EksoNR is involved in over 115 investigator-initiated studies with greater than 2000 enrolled patient participants. Notable gains have been observed with increased heart rate, rating of perceived exertion and metabolic responses when walking in EksoNR. Also discussed is improved gait speed, walking distance and standing balance out of EksoNR demonstrating improvements in motor activity and functional mobility independence. Our latest company sponsored WISE (Walking Improvement for SCI with Exoskeleton) study demonstrates clinically meaningful improvement in independent walking speed, functional gains in shorter timeframe and influence of factors that may modify gait recovery. The data is currently being submitted to journals for publication. The European Union also requires a two-track approach to market penetration and subsequent coverage, requiring separate claims for purchasing the device and for requests for reimbursement. We are well represented in clinics run by German and Austrian accident insurers, with four out of nine rehabilitation sites in Germany and four out of four rehabilitation sites in Austria. We operate out-patient rehabilitation sessions paid by an accident insurer, where a patient trains using our EksoGT or EksoNR device twice a week. We are using these examples to integrate exoskeletal therapy in existing care pathways. In the United Kingdom, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, or NICE, has selected us as the first exoskeleton company to produce a Medtech Innovation Briefing, or MIB, which are designed to support National Health Services, or NHS, and social care commissioners and staff who are considering using new medical devices and other medical or diagnostic technologies. The MIB highlighted the innovative aspect of our proprietary SmartAssist software, which differentiates our EksoNR and EksoGT from other available exoskeletons. Economic Value Proposition We believe that our EksoNR allows our customers to benefit economically without modifying the reimbursement model or reimbursement codes. First, many of our customers have reported that utilizing the EksoNR promotes continuous patient improvement beginning sooner than with traditional rehabilitation methods, potentially leading to a commensurate increase in insurance reimbursements. Second, many of our customers report that facilities equipped with EksoNR as part of their rehabilitation programs attract more patients, thereby driving positive economic benefits. Lastly, we believe that improvements in patient outcomes, such as those seen with the use of EksoNR, translate positively to other metrics including discharge to community, staffing efficiency in the rehabilitation unit, and reductions in readmission rates. Current Sales and Marketing Efforts Our key marketing goal today is the broad-based commercial adoption of our EksoNR in the rehabilitation setting. We are focusing our go-to-market protocols and collateral on our three target audiences: medical administrators, medical directors/ therapists, and patients. Working closely with thought leaders, we will continue to build upon our early user-group exchanges, develop clinical education programs, and grow our medical advisory council. There continues to be high market interest in expanding neurosciences service lines. In alignment with this interest, our sales priority involves the education of clinical and executive stakeholders on the economic and clinical value of our EksoNR Robotics Neuro Rehabilitation Program under our FDA indications of Stroke, Acquired Brain Injury, and Spinal Cord Injury. In tandem, we continue to leverage our EksoNR customer base to educate and mentor strategic target centers that specialize in Stroke, ABI and SCI rehabilitation in key market service areas across the US and Canada. Geographically, the priorities have been Canada, the U.S., and Mexico in the Americas, Germany in EMEA (the Europe, the Middle East, and Africa region), and Singapore, Hong Kong, and Australia in APAC (the Asia Pacific region). Currently, we utilize a direct sales force for the U.S., Canada, Singapore, Hong Kong, Germany and Switzerland. We also have an expanding distributor network in EMEA and Asia. The sales and marketing team is principally based in the U.S., Germany, and Singapore, and is structured as follows: One commercial leader each for the Americas, EMEA, and APAC; Americas, EMEA, and APAC sales professionals that pursue new prospects and organize demonstrations; 6 Table of Contents Clinical professionals and physical therapists that provide peer-to-peer demonstrations and trainings; Marketing professionals and consultants to build awareness and generate demand; Ambassadors, who are stroke and SCI survivors, that provide demonstrations and personal experiences. The sales cycle for the EksoNR averages approximately eight to 12 months for a first device and six to eight months for subsequent devices. Our typical sale is our EksoNR complete package, which includes the device and all relevant components, two sets of batteries for continuous run-time, training through two levels of certification, and SmartAssist software. Customers also typically purchase Ekso Care, which is our one- to four-year after-sales service package. Clinical Services and Customer Success We have developed leading clinical capability in robotic rehabilitation, and we provide extensive training and support to our customers to ensure they are successful. All rentals or sales include customer training. This is comprised of both on-line and in-person training of our customers physical therapists. We have made this a high priority as we recognize getting customers comfortable using our product is a prerequisite to them successfully implementing a robotic rehabilitation program. In addition to the training that is included with each sale or rental, we also offer additional training services for customers who are interested in more advanced uses of the product or who desire more supervised experiences. After Sales Service We provide direct service for the EksoNR at our facilities in Richmond, California, and Germany. In addition, we utilize third-party service providers for some customers in EMEA and APAC. When maintenance or service is required, a customer schedules service by contacting us directly. We then arrange for the appropriate service, depending on the level of Ekso Care the customer has purchased and the nature of the service required. In some cases, we may decide it is appropriate to send an Ekso field technician onsite to service the device. However, many service issues are diagnosable remotely with the use of EksoPulse. In addition to the Ekso Care service programs we provide a Fee-for-Service option. In this program, EksoNR repair is fulfilled per quote on demand of the customer and as per our repair price list. Manufacturing and Supply Chain We produce the EksoNR at our facilities in Richmond, California for worldwide sales. We currently run one line for one shift per day and believe we have the capacity to eventually run additional lines and shifts should we deem it appropriate. The EksoNR uses over 700 purchased parts, which we source globally from over 70 suppliers. Whenever possible, we seek to secure dual source suppliers for our components. Our commitment to the philosophy of continuous improvement has continued to increase product performance and reliability over the past year. As a result, we expect our cost of field service will continue to decline over the next 12 months. EksoWorks - Able-Bodied Industrial Applications We continue to pursue market and product development opportunities for the industrial market. Our initial efforts have included EksoZeroG Arm, a mobile arm mount that makes heavy tools feel weightless and enables workers to be more productive and safe, and EksoVest, an upper body exoskeleton that elevates and supports a worker's arms to assist them with tasks ranging from chest height to overhead. Building on our existing EksoVest technology, in August of 2020 we introduced EVO, an endurance-boosting assistive upper body exoskeleton that alleviates the burden of repetitive work. EVOs innovative design is our latest product for able-bodied applications. EVO is a passive, spring-loaded assistive upper-body exoskeleton that aids workers with overhead work. It is designed to reduce fatigue and shoulder and back muscle strain, with the goal of eliminating work-related injuries to the neck, shoulder, and back. EVO offers 5-15 pounds of lift assistance in each arm to elevate and alleviate the day-to-day strain on workers across all industries. Shoulder injuries caused by overhead work, repetitive tasks, and overexertion is the leading cause of lost work days due to workplace injuries. Ekso Bionics is striving to alleviate the burden on skilled workers, drastically reducing the number of workplace injuries and cutting down on worker fatigue. Market feedback continues to indicate a growing imperative among construction and manufacturing companies to drive adoption of improved safety and health practices. Furthermore, based on initial field-testing and market research, we believe that industrial exoskeletons have the potential to help prevent workforce injuries, improve productivity and over time reduce 7 Table of Contents workers compensation and related costs. In the U.S. alone, our target manufacturing and construction verticals employ a total of 18.4 million workers (according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics), many of whom can potentially benefit from our assistive technology. In addition, human augmentation technology is being viewed by senior managers of companies that have participated in field-testing as an opportunity to extend the careers of experienced and skilled workers while also changing the work environment to attract future workers to these careers. While we believe that the evidence clearly demonstrates that there is significant demand for human augmentation in industrial applications, adoption rates remain a challenge due to the nascent nature of the technology. That said, we believe that there is significant mid-to-long-term potential in the industrial markets, and accordingly, we will continue our product development efforts to expand our EksoWorks product offerings. Given the fragmented nature of the industrial market we believe that the best approach in this market involves collaboration with established strategic partners that can help us target applications tailored for specific use cases. We believe that leveraging our extensive exoskeleton expertise and intellectual property portfolio with the established channel and applying the expertise of one or more strategic partners unlocks the highest value for us and our stockholders. We continue to engage with multiple potential industrial partners, and plan to continue this approach going forward. China Joint Venture We entered into a joint venture, or the China JV, to develop and serve the exoskeleton market in China and certain other Asian markets and to create a global exoskeleton manufacturing center. The Equity Joint Venture Contract, dated January 30, 2019, between us, Zhejiang Youchuang Venture Capital Investment Co., Ltd., and another partner, collectively referred to as, the JV Partners, as amended by the Amendment to the Joint Venture Contract, dated April 30, 2019, or the JV Agreement, provided for the establishment of the China JV as a limited liability company pursuant to the Law on Sino-foreign Equity Joint Ventures and the Regulations for the Implementation of the Law on Sino-foreign Equity Joint Ventures. In May 2020, the Company, and the JV Partners received notice from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, in connection with its review of the Companys and the JV Partners investment in the China JV. The notice stated that CFIUSs prior national security concerns regarding the China JV could not be mitigated. In connection with such determination, on July 13, 2020, the Company and the JV Partners entered into a National Security Agreement, or NSA, which, among other things, required the termination of the Companys agreements and role with the China JV. On August 12, 2020, the Company and the JV Partners agreed to terminate the agreements underlying the China JV. As of December 31, 2020, all agreements related to the China JV had been terminated. Intellectual Property We have established an extensive intellectual property portfolio that includes various U.S. patents and patent applications. The table below provides a summary of U.S. patents by issuing status and ownership status. Issuing Status License Status Issued Patents Pending Applications Licensed to the Company 15 Exclusively licensed to the Company 6 Co-owned with Regents of the University of California, exclusively licensed to the Company 4 Co-owned with the Regents of the University of California 3 Sole ownership by the Company 33 4 Total: 65 61 4 Pending applications mean a complete application has been filed with the applicable patent authority and additional action is pending. Many of these applications have also been filed internationally as appropriate for their respective subject matter. As of December 31, 2020, 203 applications have issued or have been allowed as patents internationally. Our patent portfolio contains 227 cases that have issued or are in prosecution in 21 countries outside the U.S. 8 Table of Contents Our patent portfolio includes product and method type claims, since the devices that we produce and the processes performed by those devices are patentable. Our patents encompass technologies relevant to our devices, including medical exoskeletons, commercial exoskeletons, actuators, and strength-enhancing exoskeletons. The earliest priority date of the portfolio reaches back to 2003, and new applications may continue to be filed from time-to-time. Licensors include the Regents of the University of California, or UC Berkeley, and Garrett Brown (as a result of our acquisition of technology of Equipois, LLC, or Equipois). The license with UC Berkeley consists of two agreements and one amendment to the agreement covering ten patent cases exclusively licensed to us, nine of which have issued and one of which remains in prosecution or the UC Berkeley License Agreements. Inventions covered by a further three patent applications are co-owned by us and UC Berkeley, with no license agreement between us and UC Berkeley. As a result, UC Berkeley may license its rights in these patents to a third party. With respect to two of these co-owned patent applications, UC Berkeley has licensed their rights in the U.S. to an unrelated third party. The third patent application will need to be fully prosecuted before it can be determined which claims are exclusive to us (through a previous license) and which claims UC Berkeley may license to other entities. Pursuant to the UC Berkeley License Agreements, Ekso Bionics initially paid UC Berkeley consideration consisting of $5,000 in cash and 310,400 common shares of Ekso Bionics, and committed to pay a 1% royalty on sales, including sales generated by sublicenses. In addition, the UC Berkeley License Agreements call for minimum annual payments of $50,000. We do not pay royalties to UC Berkeley on products sold or to be resold to the U.S. government. In some cases, as a result of government funding we receive, the patents have a government use license, granting the U.S. government a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license for use of the inventions for or on behalf of the U.S. government, as is typical in the case of government sponsored research. In connection with our acquisition of assets of Equipois, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois under a license agreement with Garrett Brown, the developer of certain intellectual property related to mechanical balance and support arm technologies, which grants us an exclusive license with respect to the technology and patent rights for certain fields of use. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we will be required to pay Mr. Brown a single-digit royalty on net receipts, subject to a $50,000 annual minimum royalty requirement. Intellectual Property Out-Licensing We believe that the breadth of the coverage across various bionic systems and technologies, together with our freedom to grant sub-licenses under the UC Berkeley License Agreements gives us the potential to generate licensing revenue in fields outside our present areas of commercialization. Since 2009, we have generated approximately $1.8 million in such licensing revenue from our two licensees: Lockheed Martin Corporation or Lockheed and OttoBock Healthcare Product GmbH or OttoBock. We receive revenue pursuant to a Government Field Cross License Agreement dated as of July 1, 2013 between Ekso Bionics, Inc. and Lockheed and a Cross License Agreement dated as of July 1, 2013 between Ekso Bionics, Inc. and Lockheed. Pursuant to these agreements, we have licensed to Lockheed certain rights with respect to our anthropomorphic exoskeleton technology for which Lockheed is obligated to pay us a royalty on sales of products incorporating such technology. Royalty fees from Lockheed were either de minimus or nil for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. With respect to OttoBock, we received exclusivity payments pursuant to the License and Services Agreement dated October 27, 2014. The License and Services Agreement grants OttoBock exclusive rights in order to develop a semi-active prosthetic knee prototype for use in medical prosthetics and provides that OttoBock will pay us a royalty based on sales by OttoBock of products incorporating the licensed technology. We did not receive any royalty fees from Ottobock during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In November of 2019, OttoBock informed us that they will not be pursuing commercialization of products based on our intellectual property. As a result, we do not expect additional royalty revenue from OttoBock in the future. In March 2018, we entered into a set of agreements with Daydo Co, Ltd., or Daydo, related to distribution and cross-licensing of EksoVest. Under these agreements, Daydo has exclusive distribution rights for EksoVest within Japan and rights to modify EksoVest as needed to address the Japanese market in exchange for royalty payments to us. We also have rights to use any improvements made by Daydo. Daydo released its localized version of EksoVest (called Task AR) in January of 2019. Revenue from related royalty payments was de minimis in 2020 and 2019. 9 Table of Contents In June 2020, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with HAWE Hydraulik of Germany for rights to develop hydraulic pumps covered by a family of our patents. The agreement additionally includes an exclusivity option. We did not receive any royalty revenue from this license in 2020. Competition The medical technology and industrial robotics industries are characterized by intense competition and rapid technological change. We believe that a number of other companies are developing competitive technology and devices for both the able-bodied and medical fields of use and many of these competitors have significantly more financial and other resources than we possess. In the medical field, we face competition from companies that are focused on technology for rehabilitation of patients suffering from stroke and related neurological disabilities as well as from companies that are focused on SCI. In stroke, Cyberdyne, Parker Hannafins Indego, and ReWalk all now offer ambulatory exoskeletons for rehabilitation use in various markets where we operate. While not functionally equivalent, Hocoma, AlterG, Aretech and Reha Technology are selling treadmill-based gait therapies. In SCI, ReWalk Robotics and Parker Hannafin also sell ambulatory exoskeletons. Other companies who have announced plans to commercialize robotic exoskeletons include: Bionik Laboratories and SuitX. Technologies developed by competitors in the areas of stroke rehabilitation and SCI represent therapeutic interventions with utility at varying points of the continuum of care. Clinically, the EksoNR is unique in its broad ability to mobilize pre- or even non-ambulatory patients using a full weight bearing, over ground, task-based platform. From a practice management perspective, the EksoNR is less expensive than many other systems, has a smaller footprint, the ability to move around the hospital, and uses standard power requirements that make it easy to integrate into existing infrastructure. Other over-ground exoskeletons were initially designed for an individual to achieve ambulation reliant on the device. By contrast, the EksoNRs design accommodates patients with complete paraplegia and additionally includes features that are optimized to assist therapists in helping patients with some motor ability learn to walk again in a clinical setting, treating several patients and indications in a single day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the most pressing challenges we face are not necessarily competitive technologies, but rather achieving rapid market awareness and adoption of this emerging technology while acclimating prospects to a fundamentally new paradigm in neuro-rehabilitation and mobility. In addition, it may be difficult for the rehabilitation department of a hospital or clinic to secure the funds for acquisition of an Ekso device in an environment where capital expenditures of this magnitude are not commonly incurred by those rehabilitation departments. In the able-bodied field, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, BAE Systems, Panasonic, Honda, Daewoo, Noonee, Revision Military, SuitX, Skel-ex, Levitate and Cyberdyne - among others - are each developing or commercializing some form of exoskeleton for military and/or industrial applications. The field of robotic exoskeleton technology remains in its infancy. As this field develops, we believe that we will face increased competition on the basis of product features, clinical outcomes, price, services and other factors. Our competitive position will depend on multiple, complex factors, including our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. In some instances, competitors may also offer, or may attempt to develop, alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device. Governmental Regulation and Product Approval U.S. Regulation The U.S. government regulates the medical device industry through various agencies, including but not limited to the FDA, which administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. The design, testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, distribution, advertising, and marketing of medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Any medical device product that we develop must receive all requisite regulatory approvals or clearances, as the case may be, before it may be marketed in a particular country. Device Development, Marketing Clearance and Approval. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the degree of risk the FDA determines to be associated with a device and the extent of control deemed necessary to ensure the devices safety and effectiveness. Devices requiring fewer controls because they are deemed to pose 10 Table of Contents lower risk are placed in Class I or II. Class I devices are deemed to pose the least risk and are subject only to general controls applicable to all devices, such as requirements for device labeling, premarket notification, and adherence to the FDAs current good manufacturing practice requirements, as reflected in its Quality System Regulation, or QSR. Class II devices are intermediate risk devices that are subject to general controls and may also be subject to special controls such as performance standards, product-specific guidance documents, special labeling requirements, patient registries or post-market surveillance. Class III devices are those for which insufficient information exists to assure safety and effectiveness solely through general or special controls, and include life- sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, and devices not substantially equivalent to a device that is already legally marketed. Most Class I devices, and some Class II devices are exempted by regulation from the 510(k) clearance requirement and can be marketed without prior authorization from the FDA. Class I and Class II devices that have not been so exempted are eligible for marketing through the 510(k) clearance pathway. By contrast, devices placed in Class III generally require premarket approval, or PMA, prior to commercial marketing. To obtain 510(k) clearance for a medical device, an applicant must submit a premarket notification application to the FDA demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, which is typically a Class II device that is legally marketed in the United States. A device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device if it has the same intended use and (i) the same technological characteristics, or (ii) has different technological characteristics and the information submitted demonstrates that the device is as safe and effective as a legally marketed device and does not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness. A showing of substantial equivalence sometimes, but not always, requires clinical data. Generally, the 510(k) clearance process can exceed 90 days and may extend to a year or more. After a device has received 510(k) clearance for a specific intended use, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, such as a significant change in the design, materials, method of manufacture or intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or if the device as modified is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed predicate device PMA. While the determination as to whether new authorization is needed is initially left to the manufacturer, the FDA may review this determination and evaluate the regulatory status of the modified product at any time and may request the manufacturer to cease marketing and recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA is obtained. The manufacturer may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. The second, more comprehensive, approval process applies to a new device that is not substantially equivalent to a predicate device or that is to be used in supporting or sustaining life or preventing impairment. These devices are normally Class III devices requiring PMA. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. The PMA process takes substantially longer than the 510(k) process, approximately one to two years or more. In some instances, the FDA may find that a device is new and not substantially equivalent to a predicate device but is also not a high-risk device as is generally the case with Class III PMA devices. In these instances, the FDA may allow a device to be reclassified from Class III to Class I or II. The de novo reclassification option is an alternate pathway to classify novel devices of low to moderate risk that had automatically been placed in Class III after receiving a not substantially equivalent (NSE) determination in response to a 510(k) notification. The FDCA also allows a sponsor to submit a de novo reclassification request to the FDA for novel low to moderate risk devices without first being required to submit a 510(k) application. These types of applications are referred to as Evaluation of Automatic Class III Designation or de novo. In instances where a device is deemed not substantially equivalent to a Class II predicate device, the candidate device may be filed as a de novo application which may lead to delays in regulatory decisions by the FDA. FDA review of a de novo application may lead the FDA to identify the device as either a Class I or II device and subject to or exempt from 510(k) premarket notification. Clinical trials are generally required to support a PMA or de novo reclassification application and are sometimes required for 510(k) clearance. Clinical trials generally require an investigational device exemption application, or IDE, approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients and study sites, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device eligible for more abbreviated IDE requirements. Clinical trials are subject to extensive monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Clinical trials must be conducted under the oversight of an institutional review board or an IRB, for the relevant clinical trial sites and must comply with FDA regulations, including but not limited to those relating to good clinical practices. Conducting a clinical trial also requires obtaining the patients' informed consent in form and substance compliant with both FDA requirements and state and federal privacy and human subject protection regulations. The FDA or the IRB could suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. Even if a trial is completed, the results of clinical testing may not adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device or may otherwise not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval to market the product in the U.S. To date, the EksoGT has been the subject of several clinical studies, some sponsored by us, as well as non-Ekso-sponsored independent studies conducted by rehabilitation institutions. In addition, we are currently conducting several studies to investigate additional indications for use for the EksoGT, as well as to evaluate clinical and non-clinical outcomes of using the device. Our current indication for use, or IFU, clearance for stroke, SCI, and ABI. On April 4, 2016, we received clearance from the 11 Table of Contents FDA to market our EksoGT robotic exoskeleton for use in the treatment of individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke, individuals with SCI at levels T4 to L5, and individuals with SCI at levels of T3 to C7 (ASIA D), in accordance with the devices labeling. On July 19, 2016, we received clearance from the FDA to expand/clarify the indications and labeling to expressly include individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke who have upper extremity function of at least 4 out of 5 strength in at least one arm. On June 15, 2020, we received clearance from FDA to expand the indications for use, or IFU, and labeling to expressly include individuals with acquired brain injury, including traumatic brain injury and stroke who have upper extremity function of at least 4 out of 5 strength in at least one arm. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: product listing and establishment registration, which helps facilitate FDA inspections and other regulatory action; QSR, which requires manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for un-cleared, unapproved or off-label use or indication; 510(k) clearance of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in intended use of one of our cleared devices; medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers comply with FDA requirements to report if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or a similar device were to recur; post-approval restrictions or conditions, including post-approval study commitments; post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device; the FDA's recall authority, whereby it can ask, or under certain conditions order, device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of governing laws and regulations; regulations pertaining to voluntary recalls; and notices provision regarding corrections or removals. Advertising and promotion of medical devices, in addition to being regulated by the FDA, are also regulated by the Federal Trade Commission and by state regulatory and enforcement authorities. Recently, promotional activities for FDA-regulated products of other companies have been the subject of enforcement action brought under healthcare reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. In addition, under the federal Lanham Act and similar state laws, competitors and others can initiate litigation relating to advertising claims. If the FDA determines that promotional or training material related to an approved device constitute the promotion of an un-cleared or unapproved use, the FDA could request that the promotional or training materials related to such device be modified or it could subject the manufacturer to regulatory or enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations. Since January 2020, there has been one report of an adverse event relating to our EksoNR and none related to our EksoGT devices reported to the FDA under the Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience Database. Foreign Regulation In addition to regulations in the U.S., we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products in foreign countries. Regardless of the FDAs approval requirements for a particular product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. The policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products and could also increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We 12 Table of Contents cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. Human Capital Resources and Management As of February 19, 2021, we had 40 employees, including 39 full time employees and one part-time employee. Seven employees reside in Europe and two in Singapore. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. We endeavor to maintain a workplace that is free from discrimination or harassment on the basis of color, race, sex, national origin, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identification or expression or any other status protected by applicable law. We conduct annual training to prevent harassment and discrimination and monitor employee conduct year-round, including by providing employees with access to an anonymous whistleblower hotline to report any violations. The basis for recruitment, hiring, development, training, compensation and advancement at the Company is qualifications, performance, skills and experience. Our employees are fairly compensated, without regard to gender, race and ethnicity, and routinely recognized for outstanding performance and provided with training and professional development opportunities. Our compensation program is designed to attract and retain talent. We continually assess and strive to enhance employee satisfaction and engagement. Our employees, many of whom have been employed by us for the majority of our existence, frequently express satisfaction with management including by responding positively about our management in anonymous surveys. Corporate Information We were incorporated as PN Med Group Inc. in Nevada on January 30, 2012. Prior to the Merger and Split-Off (each as defined below), our business was to distribute medical supplies and equipment in Chile. On January 15, 2014, we consummated the Merger, in which our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ekso Acquisition Corp., a corporation formed in the State of Delaware on January 3, 2014, merged with and into Ekso Bionics, Inc., a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware on January 19, 2005. Ekso Bionics was the surviving corporation in the Merger and became our wholly-owned subsidiary. All of the outstanding Ekso Bionics' capital stock was converted into shares of our common stock in the Merger. In connection with the Merger and pursuant to a split-off agreement and general release, we transferred our pre-Merger assets and liabilities to our pre-Merger majority stockholders, in exchange for the surrender by them and cancellation of 2,497,586 shares of our common stock, or the Split-Off, after adjusting to give effect to the 1-for-7 reverse stock split, which occurred on May 4, 2016 and the subsequent 1-for-15 reverse stock split, which occurred on March 24, 2020. As a result of the Merger and Split-Off, we discontinued our pre-Merger business and acquired the business of Ekso Bionics, and have continued the existing business operations of Ekso Bionics as a publicly-traded company under the name Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. Our principal executive office is located at 1414 Harbour Way South, Suite 1201, Richmond, California, and our telephone number is (510) 984-1761. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our internet address is www.eksobionics.com. This website address is intended to be an inactive, textual reference only; none of the material on this website is part of this Annual Report. Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K will be furnished without charge to any person who submits a written request directed to the attention of our Secretary, at our offices located at 1414 Harbour Way South, Suite 1201, Richmond, California, 94804. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 13 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk. We face a variety of risks that may affect our operations or financial results and many of those risks are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. Before investing in our securities, you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the financial and other information contained in this prospectus. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and investors may lose all or a part of their investment. This Annual Report contains certain statements relating to future events or our future financial performance. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual events or results may differ materially. In evaluating such statements, readers should specifically consider the various factors identified in this Annual Report, including the matters set forth below, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. The risks described below do not purport to be all the risks to which we could be exposed. This section is a summary of certain risks and is not set out in any particular order of priority. They are the risks that we presently believe are material to our operations. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or which we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Business and Operational Risks The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our financial condition and there is little future certainty. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted our business, including our employees, suppliers, customers and other business partners. We have seen demand for our exoskeleton products decrease in the current business environment, as many inpatient rehabilitation facilities temporarily shift priorities and delay capital expenditures. Many of our customers are not able to access their facilities, are not performing elective surgeries and are sending patients home sooner than they otherwise would, all of which may reduce their need for our products and impact their decisions as to leasing or acquiring our products. It is also harder for us to drive growth when our sales teams cannot visit rehabilitation facilities and demonstrate our products in person and given difficulties in presenting new data to the public and attending professional conferences. In addition, there could be a potential effect of a slowdown at FDA, which could result in delays of regulatory correspondence that are necessary for us to maintain or advance our product candidates in clinical studies. We are also subject to other risks applicable to business operating in the current environment. For example, our business insurance may not provide coverage against economic loss or claims specifically tied to COVID-19. A greater number of our employees are working remotely, which exposes us to a greater risk of cybersecurity breaches. The COVID-19 outbreak may also adversely impact our ability to make requisite filings under federal securities laws on a routine and timely basis. In addition, any deterioration in economic conditions due to the COVID-19 pandemic or any related market volatility may impact our ability to access the capital markets or ability to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, which may affect our liquidity. The situation is constantly evolving, however, so the extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak will impact business and the economy is uncertain. Accordingly, consequences stemming from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have a limited operating history upon which investors can evaluate our future prospects. Although we were incorporated in 2005, we did not sell our first Ekso medical device until 2012 and did not sell our first industrial unit until 2016. Therefore, we have limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our business plan or performance and prospects can be made. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the potential problems, delays, uncertainties and complications encountered in connection with a newly established business and creating a new industry. The risks include, but are not limited to, the possibility that we will not be able to develop functional and scalable products and services, or that although functional and scalable, our products and services will not be economical to market; that our competitors hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing such products; that our competitors market a superior or equivalent product; that we are not able to upgrade and enhance our technologies and products to accommodate new features and expanded service offerings; or that we fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances for our products. To successfully introduce and market our products at a profit, we must establish brand name recognition and competitive advantages for our products. There are no assurances that we can successfully address these challenges. If we are unsuccessful, we and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive. 14 Table of Contents We face competition within the medical devices and industrial robotics markets on the basis of product features, clinical outcomes, price, services and other factors. Our competitive position will depend on multiple, complex factors, including our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. Competitors may offer, or may attempt to develop, more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more convenient alternatives to our products, including alternatives that could make the need for robotic exoskeletons obsolete. The entry into the market of manufacturers located in low-cost manufacturing locations may also create pricing pressure, particularly in developing markets. Our future success depends, among other things, upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology, as well as to respond effectively to technological advances, and upon our ability to successfully implement our marketing strategies and execute our research and development plan. The market for our products is new and unproven, and susceptible to technological change and scientific developments. The market for medical and industrial exoskeletons is new and unproven. We cannot be certain that the market for robotic exoskeletons will continue to develop, or that robotic exoskeletons for medical or industrial use will achieve market acceptance. Additionally, the development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. Furthermore, the use of robotic devices is not universally accepted in the rehabilitation community. The exoskeleton market may fail to develop, or may develop more slowly than we anticipate, or we may be unable to respond effectively to technological changes or fail to gain acceptance of our product in our target markets. Current or future clinical trials and studies may not provide sufficient data that the rehabilitation community interprets to support the use of exoskeletons in rehabilitation, or such trials and studies may actually prove the opposite. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers may impact sales of our products. To the extent that the adoption of our product by our customers becomes dependent in the future on their ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for treatments provided using our product from third-party payers, the coverage policies and reimbursement levels of these third-party payers may impact the decisions of healthcare providers and facilities to purchase our products or the prices they would be willing to pay for those products. Reimbursement rates could also affect the acceptance rates of new technologies. We have no control over these factors. We will experience long and variable sales cycles. The EksoNR has a lengthy sale and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital expenditure item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions, which may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. International sales of our products are subject to factors outside of our control. Our business currently depends in part on our activities in the EMEA, APAC, and other foreign markets. Our international activities are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad, including failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations, challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; challenges caused by differences in legal regulations, markets, and customer preferences, which may limit our ability to adapt our products or succeed in other regions; multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign laws, tax schemes, international import and export legislation, trading and investment policies, exchange controls and tariff and other trade barriers; foreign tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and foreign currency translation adjustments; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned outside the United States; imposition of public sector controls; differing payer reimbursement regimes, governmental payers or patient self-pay systems and price controls; political, economic and social instability; and restrictions on the export or import of technology. We rely on independent distributors for the sale and marketing of our products in certain geographies. In non-German-speaking European countries, other EMEA countries and Central and South American countries, we rely on independent distributors to distribute and assist us with the marketing and sale of our products. These distributors are our principal customers, and revenue growth will depend in large part on our success in establishing and maintaining this sales and distribution channel. However, there can be no assurance that our distributors will be successful in selling our products to end users, or will focus adequate resources on selling them, and they may not continue to purchase or market our products for a 15 Table of Contents number of reasons. Our business may suffer if we are not able to attract and retain key employees. Our success depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. In addition, as we introduce new products or services, we will need to hire additional personnel. Currently, competition for personnel with the required knowledge, skill and experiences is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area, where we are headquartered, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain such personnel. The inability to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The acquisition of other companies, businesses, or technologies could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We may selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, any of which could be material to our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future acquisitions could divert managements time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization and integrating each companys accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management. The anticipated benefits of future acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Natural or other disasters could disrupt our business and result in loss of revenue or in higher expenses. Natural disasters, terrorist activities, military conflict and other business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters are located in California, a seismically active region. A natural disaster in any of our major markets in North America or Europe could have a material adverse impact on our operations, operating results and financial condition. Further, any unanticipated business disruption caused by Internet security threats, damage to global communication networks or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. Financial & Accounting Risks We have incurred significant losses to date and anticipate continuing to incur losses in the future, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have thus far been largely dependent on capital raised through the sale of equity securities in various public and private offerings, and we have incurred losses in each fiscal year since our incorporation in 2005. Our net losses were $15.8 million and $12.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively (with losses from an increase in common stock purchase warrant liabilities due to an increase in our stock price accounting for a $3.1 million increase in net losses in 2020). As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had an accumulated deficit of $199.1 million and $183.3 million, respectively. The operation of our business and our growth efforts will require significant cash outlays and advance capital equipment expenditures and commitments. We believe we have sufficient resources to operate for the foreseeable future based upon our current cash resources, the recent rate of using cash for operations and investment, and assuming modest increases in current revenue offset by incremental increases in expenses related to increased sales and marketing and research and development, and a potential increase in rental activity from our medical device business. However, unless we are able to generate significant revenues from sales and rentals of our products, we will not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the near future or at all, and we will remain largely dependent on capital raised from past and future financings to implement our business plan, support our operations and service our debt obligations, which totaled $3.1 million as of January 31, 2021. Our lack of profitability may depress our stock price, and if we are unable become profitable, we may be required to reduce the scope of our business development activities, which could harm our business plans, financial condition and operating results, or to cease our operations entirely. Our loan agreement imposes certain financial, and operational restrictions on us, limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. Our loan agreement with Pacific Western Bank, which we entered into in August 2020, or our PWB Loan Agreement, contains, subject to certain carve-outs, various restrictive covenants that limit our management's discretion in operating our business. In particular, these instruments limit our ability to, among other things incur additional debt, grant liens on assets, sell or acquire 16 Table of Contents assets outside the ordinary course of business, pay dividends and make certain fundamental business changes. Our obligations are also secured by a security interest in all of our assets, exclusive of intellectual property. As a result, we may need to use our capital resources to repay the PWB Loan in order to undertake certain financing or strategic transactions. Management will have broad discretion as to our use of capital resources. As of December 31, 2020, we had $12.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, and our recently completed public offering in February 2021 resulted in our receiving an additional $36.4 million in estimated net proceeds. Our management will have broad discretion in the application of these capital resources, including for working capital and other general corporate purposes, which may include repayment of debt, acquisitions and other business opportunities. The amounts and timing of our use of proceeds will vary depending on a number of factors, including the amount of cash generated or used by our operations, and the rate of growth, if any, of our business. In addition, while we have not entered into any agreements, commitments or understandings relating to any significant transaction as of the date of this Annual Report, we may use a portion of the net proceeds to pursue acquisitions of other businesses, products or technologies that are complementary to our business, joint ventures and licensing arrangements, and other strategic transactions and business opportunities. Our broad use of these funds may not always align with the focus of our investors, and our investors may not have the opportunity as part of their investment decision in any such offering to assess whether the net proceeds of such offering are being used appropriately. Because of the number and variability of factors that will determine our use of the net proceeds from any offering, their ultimate use may vary from the intended use as may be stated in the relevant prospectus related to such offering. The failure by our management to apply these funds effectively could harm our business. Pending their use, we may invest the net proceeds from any offering in a variety of capital preservation investments. These investments may not yield a favorable return to our securityholders. We may not be able to reduce the cost to manufacture or service our products as planned. Our business plan assumes that exoskeletons can be manufactured more inexpensively than they are currently being manufactured. However, we have not yet found a way to significantly reduce the manufacturing cost of our products and doing so may prove more difficult than expected or even impossible. For example, if expectations for greater functionality of the products drive costs up as other factors drive costs down, the result may be that the overall cost of manufacturing the product stays the same or even increases. Likewise, we currently provide service and support of our products for our customers at a high standard (both in and out of warranty), and plan on continuing to do so. Our business plan also assumes that as we continue to improve our product, we achieve improved levels of product reliability and decreased service cost and frequency, which also may prove more difficult than expected. We may not be able to leverage our cost structure or achieve better margins. Due to the early stage of our commercial efforts, and particularly the early stage of customer adoption of our products, our current sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses are each a higher percentage of sales than they will need to be for us to reach profitability. While we do expect these expenses to grow as our business grows, we also expect these expenses to decline as a percentage of revenues over time. If we are unable to leverage these costs and grow revenues at a greater pace than these operating expenses as we expect, we will not be able to achieve viable operating margins and profitability. We could fail to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While we believe that the policies, processes and procedures we have put in place will be sufficient to render our internal controls over financial reporting effective, our initiatives may not prove successful. If so, management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. Intellectual Property Risks Protecting our intellectual proprietary rights can be costly, and our success in doing so is not certain. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. Failure to protect or to obtain, maintain or extend adequate patent and other intellectual property rights could materially adversely impact our competitive advantage and impair our business. Our issued patents may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a 17 Table of Contents form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner or may challenge the validity of our patents. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights ultimately may be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain any of our patents that issue. Furthermore, we have not filed applications for all of our inventions internationally and may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or may lose access to technologies critical to our products in other countries. These include, in some cases, countries in which we are currently selling products and countries in which we intend to sell products in the future. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. The industries in which we operate, including, in particular, the medical device industry, are characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we might be the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. Regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of our management and operating personnel from other business issues. A successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. Because competition in our industry is intense, competitors may infringe or otherwise violate our issued patents, patents of our licensors or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their patents. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patents claims narrowly, or refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. We may also elect to enter into license agreements in order to settle patent infringement claims or to resolve disputes prior to litigation, and any such license agreements may require us to pay royalties and other fees that could be significant. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. Some of the patents and patent applications in the intellectual property portfolio are not within our complete control, which could reduce the value of such patents. Some of our U.S. patents (which have associated international patents and applications) are co-owned by UC Berkeley. UC Berkeley has exclusively licensed its rights under many of these patents to us, but we do not have an exclusive license to UC Berkeleys rights under three of these patents. UC Berkeley has licensed their U.S. rights in two of these three co-owned patents to an unrelated third-party. The third patent is a continuation-in-part of a patent that UC Berkeley has licensed to us. Under the terms of the relevant license agreement between us and UC Berkeley, we have exclusive rights to any claims that are fully supported by the specification in the parent application. However, any claims that are not based on the specification in the parent application are co-owned by UC Berkeley and us, and UC Berkeleys rights in respect of such claims are not exclusively licensed to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain a license to UC Berkeleys rights in any such claims on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and UC Berkeley may choose to license its rights to third parties instead of us. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of certain assets from Equipois, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois with respect to certain patents and patent applications under an in-license of intellectual property from a third-party and subject to an out-license of that intellectual property to an unrelated third-party for use in a particular field. We do not have complete control over the prosecution of these patent applications. As well, the license of intellectual property rights under these patents to third parties could reduce the value of our patent portfolio and limit any income or license fees that we might receive if we were to attempt to transfer or license our rights under any of our co-owned or licensed patents. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license intellectual property rights from third-parties or otherwise experience disruptions to our business relationships with our licensors, we could lose intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We are a party to two exclusive license agreements and one amendment to the license agreement with UC Berkeley, covering ten patents exclusively licensed to us. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of certain assets from Equipois, we 18 Table of Contents assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois with respect to certain patents and patent applications under an in-license of intellectual property from a third-party and subject to an out-license of that intellectual property to an unrelated third-party for use in a particular field. We may also need to obtain additional licenses from others to advance our research and development activities or allow the commercialization of our devices or any other devices we may identify and pursue. Our license agreements with UC Berkeley and the rights and obligations that we assumed in connection with the Equipois acquisition impose various development, diligence, commercialization, and other obligations on us, and any future license agreements may impose similar or other obligations on us. For example, under our license agreements with UC Berkeley we are required to submit a commercialization plan with performance milestones and progress report to UC Berkeley, and must satisfy specified minimum annual royalty payment obligations. In spite of our efforts, our licensors might conclude that we have materially breached our obligations under such license agreements and might therefore terminate the license agreements, thereby removing or limiting our ability to develop and commercialize products and technology covered by these license agreements. If our license agreements with UC Berkeley are terminated, or if our agreements granting us intellectual property rights in connection with the Equipois acquisition or any future agreements granting us material intellectual property rights are terminated or impeded in a material way, competitors or other third parties would have the freedom to seek regulatory approval of, and to market, products that may be identical or functionally similar to our devices and we may be required to cease our development and commercialization of such devices. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, disputes may arise between us and our counterparties regarding intellectual property subject to a licensing agreement, including the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues; the extent to which our devices, technology and processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement; the sublicensing of patent and other rights under our collaborative research and development relationships; our diligence obligations under the license agreement and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations; the ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners; and the priority of invention of patented or patentable technology. In addition, certain provisions in our license agreement with UC Berkeley may be susceptible to multiple interpretations. The resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the agreement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, if disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected devices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Patent terms may be inadequate to protect our competitive position on our devices for an adequate amount of time. Patents have a limited lifespan. In the United States, if all maintenance fees are timely paid, the natural expiration of a patent is generally 20 years from its earliest U.S. non-provisional filing date. Various extensions may be available, but the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Even if patents covering our devices are obtained, once the patent life has expired, we may be open to competition from competitive products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new devices, patents protecting such devices might expire before or shortly after such devices are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for our medical device products, or if clearances or approvals for future products or modifications to existing products are delayed or not issued, our commercial operations would be harmed. Our EksoGT, EksoNR and EksoUE products are medical devices and are regulated by the FDA, the European Union and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of our medical products. Our failure to comply with these complex laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows In the United States, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, new claim for or significant modification to an existing product, we must first receive either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or approval of a premarket approval or PMA application from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Both the PMA and the 510(k) clearance process can be expensive, lengthy and uncertain. The FDAs 510(k) clearance process may take anywhere from several months to over a year. The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes 19 Table of Contents from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. In addition, PMA generally requires the performance of one or more clinical trials. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the medical device review process. Despite the time, effort and cost, we cannot assure you that any particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could harm our business. Failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional development, standardized testing, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could harm our business. The FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a medical device candidate for many reasons, including a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a device lawfully marketed either as a grandfathered device or one that was cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification process; a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a device lawfully marketed either as a grandfathered device or one that was cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification process; a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be in conformance with applicable standards and regulations; FDA or other regulatory officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials or other product testing date to be sufficient; other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve our processes or facilities or those of any of our third-party manufacturers, thereby restricting export; or the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change clearance or approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even after regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, a cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to extensive regulatory requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the product. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; adverse inspectional observations (Form 483), warning letters, non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations; civil or criminal penalties or fines; injunctions; product seizures, detentions or import bans; voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances or approvals; total or partial suspension of production; imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; refusal to clear or approve pending applications or premarket notifications; and import and export restrictions. If imposed on us, any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Modifications to our EksoNR and our future products may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained On April 4, 2016, we received clearance from the FDA to market our EksoGT robotic exoskeleton for use in the treatment of individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke, individuals with SCI at levels T4 to L5, and individuals with SCI at levels of T3 to C7 (ASIA D), in accordance with the devices labeling. On July 19, 2016, we received clearance from the FDA to expand/clarify the indications and labeling to expressly include individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke who have upper extremity function of at least four-fifths in only one arm. Our prior cleared indications for use statement required that individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke have upper extremity function of at least four-fifths in both arms. An element of our strategy is to continue to upgrade our robotic exoskeleton platform to incorporate new software and hardware enhancements. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device, including our EksoGT, that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance based on the final guidance document issued by the FDA in October 2017 addressing when to submit a new 510(k) application due to modifications to 510(k)-cleared devices and a separate guidance document on when to submit a new 510(k) application due to software changes to 510(k)-cleared devices. Although largely aligned with the FDAs longstanding guidance document issued in 1997, the 2017 guidance includes targeted changes intended to provide additional clarity on when a new 510(k) application is needed. The FDA may review our determinations regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary, and may not agree with our decisions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations for any future changes, or prior changes to previously marketed products, as the case may be, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified products until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. We may introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. The products may be subject to various regulatory processes, and we may need to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. If a potential purchaser of our products believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. As a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. 20 Table of Contents Our failure to meet strict post-market regulatory requirements with respect to our products could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. We are required to comply with the FDAs Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, process controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, handling, storage, distribution, installation, servicing and shipping of our marketed products. These regulatory requirements may significantly increase our production costs and may even prevent us from making our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may need to review the process before it may be used. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Federal, state and non-U.S. regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes. The complexity, timeframes and costs associated with obtaining marketing clearances are unknown. Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, these changes might have on our business, the impact could be material. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or off-label uses. Any cleared or approved product may be promoted only for its indicated uses and our promotional materials must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. We believe that the specific use for which our products are marketed fall within the scope of the indications for use that have been cleared by the FDA. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. We may be subject to adverse medical device reporting obligations, voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDAs medical device reporting or MDR regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. For example, we have been informed of a limited number of events with respect to our EksoNR or EksoGT devices that have been determined to be reportable pursuant to the MDR regulations. In each case, the required MDR report was filed with the FDA. In addition, all manufacturers bringing medical devices to market in the European Economic Area are legally bound to report any incident that led or might have led to the death or serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person, and which the manufacturers device is suspected to have caused, to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. In such case, the manufacturer must file an initial report with the relevant competent authority, which would be followed by further evaluation or investigation of the incident and a final report indicating whether further action is required. The events described above that were reported to the FDA were also reported to the relevant EU regulatory authorities. We are also required to follow detailed recordkeeping requirements for all Company-initiated medical device corrections and removals, and to report such corrective and removal actions to the FDA if they are carried out in response to a risk to health and have not otherwise been reported under the MDR regulations. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Recalls of our products, or agency actions relating to our failure to comply with our reporting or recordkeeping obligations, could harm our reputation and financial results. Failure to comply with anti-kickback and fraud regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in our business operations. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers for our products, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by federal, state and foreign governments, which could significantly impact our business. These laws may 21 Table of Contents constrain the business and financial arrangements and relationships through which we conduct our operations, including how we research, market, sell and distribute any product for which we have obtained regulatory approval, or for which we obtain regulatory approval in the future. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include, but are not limited to, those that prohibit, among other things, (i) filing, or causing to be filed, false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws, (ii) payment, solicitation or receipt of unlawful inducements, directly or indirectly, for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and (iii) health care service providers from seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark law. Many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state Medicaid and other government funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. In addition, we may be subject to federal and state data privacy laws that govern the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. We are subject to the risk that a person or government could allege we have engaged in fraud or other misconduct, even if none occurred. It is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us now or in the future, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from governmental health care programs, additional integrity oversight and reporting obligations, contractual damages, reputational harm and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Changes in law or regulation could make it more difficult and costly for us to manufacture, market and distribute our products or obtain or maintain regulatory approval of new or modified products. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Elections could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the health care industry. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market, and distribute existing products. Significant delays in receiving clearance or approval, or the failure to receive clearance or approval, for any new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. Healthcare changes in the U.S. and other countries, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, could have a negative impact on our future operating results. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, in 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, was enacted into law. The legislation seeks to reform the United States healthcare system. It is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. We expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. The ACA reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, clinical laboratories and pharmaceutical companies, and could otherwise reduce the volume of medical procedures. These factors, in turn, could result in reduced demand for our products and increased downward pricing pressure. It is also possible that the ACA will result in lower reimbursements. While the ACA is intended to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured persons in the United States, the impact of any overall increase in access to healthcare on sales of our products remains uncertain. The current U.S. Presidential administration and the majority party in both Houses of U.S. Congress have indicated their desire to repeal all or certain provisions of the ACA. It is unclear whether, when and how that repeal could be effectuated and what the effect on the healthcare sector might be. A number of lawsuits have been filed challenging various aspects of the ACA and related regulations. In addition, the efficacy of the ACA is the subject of much debate among members of Congress and the public. On December 14, 2018, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas held the individual mandate provisions, and therefore the entirety of ACA, unconstitutional. The impact of the ruling is stayed as it is appealed to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Our business may be materially and adversely impacted 22 Table of Contents in the event that the ACA in part, or in its entirety, is ruled unconstitutional. Furthermore, the uncertainty regarding the constitutionality of the ACA, or specific provisions therein, may negatively affect our business. In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted and signed into law, one part of which repeals the individual mandate introduced by the ACA starting in 2019. The repeal of the individual mandate may have an adverse effect on ACA insurance markets and lead to further legislative changes. In addition, the new law imposes a 2.3% excise tax on medical devices that will apply to U.S. sales of our medical device products. In January 2018, President Trump signed into law a spending package that included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax, which lapsed on December 31, 2019. This tax has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin. There have been other changes to the ACA since the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and Congress could still consider additional legislation to repeal or replace all or certain elements of the ACA. In addition, other reform legislation has been passed subsequent to the enactment of the ACA, including measures that reduced reimbursement for certain providers and entities under federal health care programs. The outlook for the healthcare sector is unclear, and we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation and regulations. Changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could also harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Future elections in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation, implementation of Medicare and/or Medicaid, and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the healthcare industry. In the event that legal challenges are successful, or the ACA, is repealed or materially amended, particularly any elements of the ACA that are beneficial to our business or that cause changes in the health insurance industry, including reimbursement and coverage by private payers or, Medicare or Medicaid payers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes may occur, certain proposals, including a repeal or material amendment of the ACA, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, even if the ACA is not amended or repealed, the President and the executive branch of the federal government have a significant impact on the implementation of the provisions of the ACA, and the current or future administrations could make changes impacting the implementation and enforcement of the ACA, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are slow or unable to adapt to any such changes, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Product Liability Risks Our products may become subject to voluntary or involuntary recall. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. In addition, manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. To date, we have initiated only one field action in which we voluntarily accelerated our maintenance schedule based on field usage. When a medical human exoskeleton is used by a paralyzed individual to walk, the individual relies completely on the exoskeleton to hold them upright. There are many exoskeleton components that, if they were to fail catastrophically, could cause a fall resulting in severe injury or death of the patient. Certain of our competitors have reported injuries caused by the malfunction of human exoskeleton devices (in at least one case to the FDA). Injuries caused by the malfunction or misuse of human exoskeleton devices, even where such malfunction or misuse occurs with respect to one of our competitors products, could cause regulatory agencies to implement more conservative regulations on the medical human exoskeleton industry, which could significantly increase our operating costs. Similarly, when an industrial exoskeleton is used by a healthy individual - for example to operate heavy machinery overhead - malfunction of the device at an inopportune moment could result in severe injury or death of the person using the device. Such occurrences could result in regulatory action on the part of OSHA or its foreign counterparts. Any future recalls of any of our products could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. In addition, personal injuries relating to the use of our products could also result in product liability claims being brought against us. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in substantial damages, be costly and time-consuming to defend and could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. 23 Table of Contents Our product liability insurance may not adequately cover potential claims or recalls. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices and industrial products entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. A successful product liability claim or product recall could inhibit or prevent the successful commercialization of our products, cause a significant financial burden on us, or both, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Warranty claims and our accelerated maintenance program results in additional operating costs to us. Sales of our EksoNR and EksoGT generally include a one-year warranty for parts and services in the U.S. and a two-year warranty in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. We also generally provide customers with an option to purchase an extended warranty for up to an additional three years. The costs associated with such warranties, including any warranty-related legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. As we enhance our product and in an effort to build our brand and drive adoption, we have elected to incur increased service expenses related to an accelerated maintenance program, field corrections and the implementation of technological improvements developed subsequent to many of our units being placed into service, sometimes outside of its warranty and contractual obligations. Continuation of these activities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. Risks Related to Ownership of Common Stock You may be diluted from future issuances of our equity securities, including from compensatory equity awards, exercise of outstanding warrants, or issuances of securities in financing or strategic transactions, and such issuances, or perception that such issuances may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. Future operating or business decisions may cause dilution to our stockholders. For example, we may sell equity securities or issue securities exercisable or convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with strategic transactions or for financing purposes, including under an At The Market Offering Agreement we entered into in October 2020 with H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC or our shelf registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-239203) which was declared effective by the SEC on June 26, 2020. While in 2020, we sold no shares of common stock under our at the market offering program, but from year-end to February 25, 2021, we sold $0.8 million of common stock under the program, leaving $6.7 million available for future offerings under our current prospectus for the offering. After giving effect to our public offering in February 2021, registered warrant transactions and potential sales under our prospectus for the at the market offering program, approximately $16.7 million of registered securities are available for issuance under our shelf registration statement. We have also registered all of the shares of common stock that we may issue pursuant to the exercise of 0.5 million stock options and settlement of 0.1 million restricted stock units outstanding as of December 31, 2020 and granted under our Amended and Restated 2014 Incentive Plan (the Incentive Plan), the 1.1 million shares reserved for future issuance under the Incentive Plan, and all of the 0.5 million shares of common stock that we may issue in the future under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan. You may also be subject to dilution from the exercise or settlement of outstanding options or restricted stock units under the Incentive Plan, and from the exercise of warrants, with respect to which as of February 25, 2021, 1.0 million were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $6.63 per share. In addition, sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or other equity-related securities in the public markets, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional stock may prevent us from making more difficult transactions, including a sale or merger. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock with powers, rights and preferences designated by it. Shares of voting or convertible preferred stock could be issued, or rights to purchase such shares could be issued, to create voting impediments or to frustrate persons seeking to effect a takeover or otherwise gain control of us. The ability of the Board of Directors to issue such additional shares of preferred stock, with rights and preferences it deems advisable, could discourage an attempt by a party to acquire control of us by tender offer or other means. Such issuances could therefore deprive stockholders of benefits that could result from such an attempt, such as the realization of a premium over the market price for their shares in a tender offer or the temporary increase in market price that such an attempt could cause. Moreover, the issuance of such additional shares of preferred stock to persons friendly to the Board of Directors could make it more difficult to remove incumbent officers and directors from office even if such change were to be favorable to stockholders generally. We have never paid and do not intend to pay cash dividends. 24 Table of Contents Cash dividends have never been declared or paid on our common stock, and we do not anticipate such a declaration or payment for the foreseeable future. We expect to use future earnings, if any, to fund business growth. Therefore, stockholders will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares of common stock. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During the period from our initial listing on Nasdaq on August 9, 2016 through December 31, 2020, the closing price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $93.15 per share to a low of $2.54 per share (on a split-adjusted basis), and our stock price continues to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as our ability to grow our revenue and customer base; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning regulatory oversight and approvals; variations in our and our competitors results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts; successes or challenges in our collaborative arrangements or alternative funding sources; developments in the rehabilitation and industrial robotics markets; the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits; future issuances of common stock or other securities; the addition or departure of key personnel; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions, investments or strategic alliances; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance. Trading of our common stock is limited, which may affect our stock price. Trading of our common stock is currently conducted on Nasdaq. The liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also as it may be adversely affected by delays in the timing of transactions and low coverage by research analysts the media, if at all. These factors may result in different prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained in a more liquid market and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. In addition, without a large public float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his or her investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. Additionally, sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock, the issuance of new shares of common stock by us or the perception that these sales may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and you may lose all or a portion of your investment in our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 2. PROPERTIES Our principal executive offices are currently located at 1414 Harbour Way South, Suite 1201, Richmond, CA 94804, where we leased approximately 45,000 square feet. The Richmond office serves as headquarters for our medical device and industrial device sales segments. In addition, we lease approximately 1,400 square feet of office space at Friesenweg 4, House 13, 4th floor, 22763 Hamburg, Germany for our European headquarters. We do not own any real property. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time we may be involved in litigation that we believe is of the type common to companies engaged in our line of business, including intellectual property and employment issues. While the outcome of these other claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the outcome of any of these other legal matters will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information and Dividend Policy Our common stock has been traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol EKSO since August 9, 2016. Prior to August 9, 2016, our common stock was eligible for quotation and traded on the OTC Market. The quotation of our common stock on the OTC market began on or about January 16, 2014. The closing price of EKSO stock as of February 19, 2021 was $9.22. As of February 19, 2021, we had approximately 185 stockholders of record of our common stock. This number does not include stockholders whose shares are held in investment accounts by other entities. We believe that the actual number of stockholders is greater than the number of holders of record. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, restrictions imposed by financing arrangements, if any, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, current and anticipated cash needs and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans See Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not applicable. 26 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion contains forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause future results to differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, those discussed in "Risk Factors" and elsewhere in this Annual Report. See also "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements." On March 24, 2020, we effected a one-for-fifteen reverse stock split, or the Reverse Stock Split, reducing the number of our common shares outstanding on that date from 87.4 million shares to approximately 5.8 million shares. Additionally, the exercise price and number of all outstanding options and warrants, and the number of shares reserved for future issuance pursuant to our equity compensation plan were all adjusted proportionately. All such amounts presented herein have been adjusted retroactively to reflect these changes. The number of the Companys authorized shares were not proportionately reduced in the Reverse Stock Split and remain at 141,428,571 shares. Overview The following discussion highlights the results of our operations and the principal factors that have affected our financial condition as well as our liquidity and capital resources for the periods described, and provides information that management believes is relevant for an assessment and understanding of our financial condition and results of operations presented herein. The following discussion and analysis is based on our audited consolidated financial statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. You should read the discussion and analysis together with such financial statements and the related notes thereto. COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak to be a global pandemic. In response to this pandemic, public health officials and governments across the world have recommended and mandated actions to curb the spread of the SARS-COV-2 virus, the pathogen that causes COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic and the related responses to the pandemic have caused a significant adverse impact on the global economy, including disruptions to supply chains, sharp increases in unemployment and overall economic uncertainty. This pandemic has negatively impacted our business, including our employees, suppliers, customers and other business partners, resulting in our terminating 23 employees in 2020. We have seen demand for our exoskeleton products decrease in the current business environment, as many inpatient rehabilitation facilities temporarily shift priorities and delay capital expenditures, resulting in 61 units booked (non-cancellable customer orders) in 2020 compared to 98 in 2019, a decrease of 38%. We have seen that the clinical need has not diminished as more data is coming out about the increase prevalence of strokes during this pandemic. As such, we continue to engage with our current and prospective customers through video conferencing, virtual training events and online education demos to offer our support and showcase the value of our Ekso devices. Although market uncertainties related to the pandemic make it difficult for us to project the full impact on our business and customers, we believe that we are well-positioned to serve our customers when business conditions begin to normalize. We continue to instruct the majority of our employees to work from home, restrict non-critical business travel and have enhanced the use of personal protective equipment in our facilities. We are hopeful that COVID cases and hospitalizations will continue to decrease, and now that our clinical team is fully vaccinated and are active onsite at rehab centers, we expect to see an uptick in live in-person interactions going forward. In fact, we are now close to the number of onsite demos in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the previous three quarters combined. While we are cautiously optimistic about the current COVID outlook, the successful completion of our first virtual training sessions leave us well-positioned to address existing pipeline opportunities, mitigating the effects of future COVID-related lock downs or travel restrictions. Management continues to actively monitor the global situation and its effects on our financial position and operations. 27 Table of Contents Business We design, develop, sell, and rent exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple markets and can be utilized both by able-bodied persons and persons with physical disabilities. We have sold or leased devices that (i) enable individuals with neurological conditions affecting gait (acquired brain injury and spinal cord injury) to rehabilitate, and in some cases, to walk again, (ii) assist individuals with a broad range of upper extremity impairments, and (iii) allow industrial workers to perform difficult repetitive work for extended periods. We believe that the commercial opportunity for exoskeleton technology adoption is accelerating as a result of recent advancements in material technologies, electronic and electrical engineering, control technologies, and sensor and software development. Taken individually, many of these advancements have become ubiquitous in peoples everyday lives. We believe that we have learned how to integrate these existing technologies and wrap the result around a human being efficiently, elegantly and safely, supported by an industry leading intellectual property portfolio. We further believe that we can do so across a broad spectrum of applications, from persons with lower limb paralysis to able-bodied users. EksoHealth EksoHealth is our business unit focused on developing, marketing, and selling exoskeletons for medical applications. Our leading product in EksoHealth, the EksoNR, is a robotic exoskeleton used to provide physical therapy for patients with lower extremity impairment. EksoNR, which in 2019 superseded our EksoGT product in this segment, includes unique features designed specifically to assist physical therapists and other clinicians to teach patients to walk again after suffering a neurological impairment. Typical conditions that can be treated with the assistance of EksoNR include acquired brain injuries, such as stroke and traumatic brain injuries, as well as spinal cord injuries and others. The benefits of using EksoNR for rehabilitation can include earlier mobilization of patients, longer and more intense rehab sessions, and better quality of sessions compared to alternative therapies. The product is most typically used in a clinical setting, with the most common among those being inpatient rehab facilities and stroke centers. EksoUE is a wearable upper body exoskeleton that is also used as a tool during rehabilitation. EksoUE is designed to assists patients with a broad range of upper extremity impairments and aims to provide them with a wider active range of motion and increased endurance for rehabilitation sessions of higher intensity. EksoWorks EksoWorks is our business unit focused on developing, marketing, and selling exoskeletons and other assistive tools for industrial applications. The target users for these devices are generally able-bodied, and as such the goal of these products is to reduce fatigue for workers. The benefits of fatigue reduction can include reduced rates of injuries, higher productivity, higher worker morale, and lower turnover. Currently, we sell these products primarily directly to companies that deploy them for use in their operations. Within EksoWorks we have two main categories of products. Our wearable exoskeleton products include EksoVest and the new EVO, both of which support the weight of a workers arms and tools, reducing the fatigue associated with working at or above shoulder height for extended periods. These products are currently targeted at end markets in Manufacturing, Aerospace, Construction, and Food Processing. EksoZeroG is a tool holder that can mount on aerial lift platform or scaffolding. This effectively reduces the weight of heavy tools as felt by the operator. EksoZeroG has been sold primarily through rental companies into the construction market. Operational Highlights In 2020, we booked a total of 61 EksoGT and EksoNR units, 19 of which were subscription units and 9 of which were previously rented units that were converted to sales. We recorded annual gross margins of approximately 57% in 2020, compared to 49% in 2019. In February 2020, we announced the worldwide launch of our upgraded EksoPulse platform, an innovative cloud-based information technology platform that measures and analyzes progress using the EksoNR robotic exoskeleton. The improved analytics system provides an easy-to-use dashboard to chart activity in rehabilitation sessions, enhancing the clinician, institutional, and patient experience of the most clinically used exoskeleton. In June 2020, we received FDA clearance to market our EksoNR robotic exoskeleton for use with acquired brain injury patients 28 Table of Contents Also in June 2020, we were named Best Healthcare Robotics Company in 2020 MedTech Breakthrough Awards Program In August 2020, we launched EVO, an endurance-boosting assistive upper body exoskeleton designed for industrial use. 2020 Financing Activities In April 2020, we received proceeds of a $1.1 million unsecured loan under the Paycheck Protection Program, or the PPP. In June 2020, we sold 1,747,704 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase up to 873,852 shares of our common stock, or June 2020 Investor Warrants, at a combined public offering price of $4.51 per share for proceeds, net of expenses and underwriting discount and commission, of $7.1 million. In August 2020, we paid off the entire amount of $1.5 million of the Company's indebtedness to Western Alliance Bank with proceeds from a new loan of $2.0 million from Pacific Western Bank. The terms of the new loan agreement include monthly interest-only payments over the next three years. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we received $3.3 million in proceeds from the exercise of 723,426 warrants. Subsequent to year end, we received estimated net proceeds of $36.4 million from an underwritten public offering, $1.4 million from warrant exercises, and $0.7 million from sales under our "at the market offering" program. Refer to Note. 18 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements under the caption Subsequent Events. Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates, and Judgments Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We continually evaluate our estimates and judgments. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known. Besides the estimates identified below that are considered critical, we make many other accounting estimates in preparing our financial statements and related disclosures. All estimates, whether or not deemed critical, affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as disclosures of contingent liabilities. These estimates and judgments are also based on historical experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Materially different results can occur as circumstances change and additional information becomes known, even for estimates and judgments that are not deemed critical. Revenue Recognition Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We enter into contracts that can include various combinations of products and services, which when capable of being distinct, are accounted for as separate performance obligations. Our EksoHealth segment revenue is primarily generated through the sale and rental of our EksoNR and associated software (SmartAssist and VariableAssist), EksoUE, sale of accessories, and support and maintenance contracts (Ekso Care). Revenue from EksoHealth sales is recognized at the point in time when control of the product transfers to the customer. Transfer of control generally occurs upon shipment from our facility for sales of our EksoNR, software, and accessories. Ekso Care support and maintenance contracts extend coverage beyond our standard warranty agreements. The separately priced Ekso Care contracts range from 12 to 48 months. We receive payment at the inception of the contract and recognize revenue over the term of the agreement. Revenue from medical device rentals is recognized over the lease term, typically over 12 months. Our EksoWorks segment revenue is generated by the sales of our EksoVest, EksoZeroG and EVO. Revenue from EksoWorks device sales is recognized at the point in time when control of the product transfers to the customer. Transfer of control generally occurs upon shipment from our facility. Inventory valuation 29 Table of Contents Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using standard cost, which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. Materials from vendors are received and recorded as raw material. Once the raw materials are incorporated in the fabrication of the product, the related value of the component is recorded as work in progress, or WIP. Direct and indirect labor and applicable overhead costs are also allocated and recorded to WIP inventory. Finished goods are comprised of completed products that are ready for customer shipment. We periodically evaluate the carrying value of inventory on hand for potential excess amounts over sales and forecasted demand. Excess and obsolete inventories identified, if any, are recorded as an inventory impairment charge to the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. Our estimate of write-downs for excess and obsolete inventory is based on a detailed analysis of on-hand inventory and purchase commitments in excess of forecasted demand. Subsequent disposals of inventories are recorded as a reduction of an inventory reserve. Stock-based Compensation We measure stock-based compensation expense for certain stock-based awards made to employees and directors based on the estimated fair value of the award on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, or the Black-Scholes Model, and recognize the fair value on a straight-line basis over the requisite service periods of the awards. Our determination of the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes Model is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. We adopted the simplified method of estimating the expected term pursuant to SEC Staff Accounting Bulletin Topic 14. On this basis, we estimate the expected term of options granted by taking the average of the vesting term and the contractual term of the option. We have, from time to time, modified the terms of stock options granted to our employees. We account for the incremental increase in the fair value over the original award on the date of the modification as an expense for vested awards or over the remaining service (vesting) period for unvested awards. The incremental compensation cost is the excess of the fair value based measure of the modified award on the date of modification over the fair value of the original award immediately before the modification. Warrant Valuation We generally account for warrants issued in connection with debt and equity financings as a component of equity, unless the warrants include a conditional obligation to issue a variable number of shares or there is a deemed possibility that we may need to settle the warrants in cash. Where there is a possibility that we may have to settle warrants in cash, we estimate the fair value of the issued warrants as a liability at each reporting date and record changes in the estimated fair value as a non-cash gain or loss in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss. The fair values of these warrants have been determined using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model (the Black-Scholes Model) and the Binomial Lattice model (the Lattice Model). The Black-Scholes Model requires inputs, such as the expected volatility, expected term, exercise price, risk-free interest rate, and the value of the underlying security. The Lattice Model provides for assumptions regarding expected volatility, expected term, exercise price, risk-free interest rates, the value of the underlying security, and the probability of and likely timing of a specific event within the period to maturity. These values are subject to a significant degree of judgment on our part. Our common stock price represents a significant input that affects the valuation of our warrants. Going Concern We assess our ability to continue as a going concern at every interim and annual period in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 205-40, Presentation of Financial Statements Going Concern . The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. 30 Table of Contents Comparison of the year ended December 31, 2020 to the year ended December 31, 2019 (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change Revenue $ 8,882 $ 13,917 $ (5,035) (36) % Cost of revenue 3,812 7,153 (3,341) (47) % Gross profit 5,070 6,764 (1,694) (25) % Gross profit % 57 % 49 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 7,752 11,398 (3,646) (32) % Research and development 2,474 4,596 (2,122) (46) % General and administrative 7,702 7,409 293 4 % Impairment of goodwill 189 189 nm (1) Restructuring 244 244 nm (1) Total operating expenses 18,361 23,403 (5,042) (22) % Loss from operations (13,291) (16,639) 3,348 (20) % Other (expense) income, net: Interest expense (139) (384) 245 (64) % Finance cost associated with warrant issuance (329) (1,096) 767 (70) % (Loss) gain on warrant liabilities (3,056) 6,376 (9,432) nm (1) Loss on modification of warrants (257) 257 nm (1) Other income (expense), net 990 (132) 1,122 nm (1) Total other (expense) income, net (2,534) 4,507 (7,041) (156) % Net loss $ (15,825) $ (12,132) $ (3,693) 30 % (1) Not meaningful Revenue Revenue decreased $5.0 million, or 36%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019. This decrease was comprised of a $3.9 million decrease in EksoHealth and a $1.1 million decrease in EksoWorks primarily due to a decrease in volume of medical device sales driven by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as our customers shifted their priorities to prepare for and manage their business during the pandemic. Gross Profit Gross profit decreased $1.7 million, or 25%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily attributable to a decreased volume of device sales. Gross margin was approximately 57% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to a gross margin of 49% for the same period in 2019. Gross margins increased primarily due to higher average selling prices for EksoNR, an increased proportion of medical device sales in overall revenue composition, lower unit production costs, the introduction of EVO, and higher service margins. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $3.6 million, or 32%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to a decrease in employee compensation expenses as a result of a furlough and a reduction in force in March and May 2020, respectively, lower selling expense as we shifted to video conferencing, virtual training events and online education demonstrations, lower general marketing and trade show activities, and the absence of clinical trials expense due to the completion of our main clinical trial in the first quarter of 2019. 31 Table of Contents Research and development expenses decreased $2.1 million, or 46%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to a decrease in employee compensation expenses as a result of a furlough and a reduction in force in March and May 2020, respectively, and a decrease in patent and licensing costs. General and administrative expenses increased $0.3 million, or 4%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to an increase in legal expense. Goodwill impairment charge of $0.2 million was recorded in the year ended December 31, 2020, reducing the goodwill balance to zero. No goodwill impairment charge was recorded in 2019. Restructuring expense of $0.2 million was recorded in the year ended December 31, 2020, and related to the completion of a restructuring plan in May of 2020. We streamlined our operations and reduced our workforce by approximately 35% to lower operating expenses and reduce cash burn. The restructuring expense consisted of employee severance payments. The reduction in operating expenses reflects the continuation of the company-wide initiatives we implemented last year, the restructuring completed in May 2020, as well as improving overall operational efficiencies. Our focus remains on optimizing the cost structure of our organization. Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense decreased $0.2 million, or 64% for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to lower effective interest rates on our term loans. Loss on revaluation of warrant liabilities of $3.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2015, 2019 and 2020. Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities of $6.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, related to warrants issued in 2015 and 2019. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price. Loss on modification of warrants of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019, was due to the reduction of the exercise price of the 2015 Warrants from $56.10 per share to $41.25 per share, in connection with an amendment of the 2015 Warrant Agreement, which retroactively removed a provision from such securities purchase agreement that prohibited the Company from effecting or entering into an agreement to effect any issuance by the Company of its common stock at a price determined based on the trading price of the Companys common stock or otherwise at a future determined price. There was no comparable amount during the same period in 2020. Warrant issuance expense of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 was recorded in connection with our private placement offerings of warrants to purchase common stock concurrently with a registered direct offering of our common stock in June 2020. We incurred $1.1 million in direct financing costs, which were allocated on a relative fair value basis between the common stock and warrant issuances, of which $0.3 million was allocated to warrants and expensed immediately. Warrant issuance expense of $1.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 was recorded in connection with our May 2019 and December 2019 financings. We incurred $1.7 million in direct financing costs, which were allocated on a relative fair value basis between the common stock and warrant issuances, of which $1.1 million was allocated to warrants and expensed immediately. Other income, net was $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to other expense, net of $0.1 million the same period of 2019, due to unrealized gains and losses on foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts toward the development of exoskeletons for the medical and industrial markets, toward the commercialization of medical exoskeletons to rehabilitation centers and toward raising capital. We have financed our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of equity securities for cash consideration and through bank debt. Liquidity and Capital Resources At December 31, 2020, we had working capital of $13.4 million, compared to working capital of $11.0 million at December 31, 2019. The increase in working capital is primarily due to higher cash balance from equity financings, warrants exercises, and 32 Table of Contents the reduction of notes payable, current as a result of retiring our WAB Term Loan. Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2020 consisted of bank deposits with third party financial institutions. As of December 31, 2020, of our $12.9 million of cash, $12.3 million was held domestically while $0.6 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $199.1 million and cash on hand of $12.9 million. Largely as a result of significant research and development activities related to our advanced technology and commercialization of such technology into our medical device business, we have incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. We have incurred net losses of $15.8 million and $12.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In the year ended December 31, 2020, we received net proceeds of $7.1 million from a registered direct offering and $3.3 million from warrant exercises, and used $8.8 million of cash in our operations. Subsequent to year-end through February 25, 2021, we received estimated net proceeds of $36.4 million from an underwritten public offering, $1.4 million from warrant exercises, and $0.7 million from sales under our "at the market offering" program. Refer to Note. 18 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements under the caption Subsequent Events. In 2020, management took several actions to alleviate the substantial doubt about the our ability to continue as a going concern that existed as of the date of issuance of the December 31, 2019 consolidated financial statements, including, but not limited to, the following: streamlined our operations and reduced our workforce by approximately 35% to lower operating expenses and reduce cash burn; conducted a registered direct offering of 1,747,704 shares of our common stock for net proceeds of $7.1 million; paid off the entire amount of $1.5 million of our indebtedness to Western Alliance Bank with proceeds from a new loan of $2.0 million from Pacific Western Bank. The terms of the new loan agreement include monthly interest-only payments over the next three years. invested in the development and reliability of our products; restructured our commercial organization and strategy which has been gaining traction; received FDA clearance for ABI to market our product to a larger patient population increasing the value proposition to our customers. As described in Note 9 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements under the caption Notes Payable, net, borrowings under our new secured term loan agreement with Pacific Western Bank have a requirement of minimum cash on hand equivalent to the current outstanding principal balance. As of December 31, 2020, $2.0 million of cash must remain as restricted. After considering cash restrictions, effective unrestricted cash as of December 31, 2020 is estimated to be $10.9 million. With this unrestricted cash balance and the impact of management's actions described above, and additional cash received after year-end, we believe that we currently have sufficient cash to fund our operations beyond the look forward period of one year from the issuance of these consolidated financial statements. Our actual capital requirements may vary significantly and will depend on many factors. We plan to continue our investments in our (i) sales initiatives to accelerate adoption of the Ekso robotic exoskeleton in the rehabilitation market, (ii) research, development and commercialization activities with respect to exoskeletons for rehabilitation, and (iii) development and commercialization of able-bodied exoskeletons for industrial use. Consequently, we may require significant additional financing in the future, which we intend to raise through corporate collaborations, public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or warrant solicitations. Sales of additional equity securities by us could result in the dilution of the interests of existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that financing will be available when required in sufficient amounts, on acceptable terms or at all. In the event that the necessary additional financing is not obtained, we may be required to further reduce our discretionary overhead costs substantially, including research and development, general and administrative, and sales and marketing expenses or otherwise curtail operations. 33 Table of Contents Cash and Cash Equivalents The following table summarizes the sources and uses of cash for the periods stated (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2020 2019 Cash, beginning of year $ 10,872 $ 7,655 Net cash used in operating activities (8,755) (15,772) Net cash used in investing activities (60) Net cash provided by financing activities 10,704 19,039 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 41 10 Cash, end of year $ 12,862 $ 10,872 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operations decreased $7.0 million, or 44%, for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to the reduction in operating expenses by improving overall operational efficiencies, including but not limited to, the reduction of employee headcount. In addition, increased collection efforts resulted in higher ratio of accounts receivable collections to sales. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased $0.1 million, or 100%, during the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to lower hardware and software purchases due to lower headcount. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $10.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 was from the sale of our common stock for net proceeds of $7.1 million in connection with the equity financing in June 2020, proceeds of $1.1 million from our PPP loan, and proceeds of $3.3 million from the exercise of June 2020 Warrants and May 2019 Warrants, partially offset by aggregate principal payments of $1.3 million against our term loan and the $1.5 million payoff of our loan with Western Alliance Bank. Net cash provided by financing activities of $19.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2019 was from the sale of common stock and warrants for net proceeds of $9.0 million in connection with the equity financing in May 2019, net proceeds of $4.2 million with the equity financing in December 2019, net proceeds of $2.8 million from our at the market offering program, net proceeds of $5.0 million from equity investors associated with the JV Agreement, and proceeds of $0.2 million from the exercise of stock options, partially offset by aggregate principal payments of $2.4 million against our term loan. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Our liquidity is not dependent on the use of off-balance sheet financing arrangements (as that term is defined in Item 303(a) (4) (ii) of Regulation S-K) and as of December 31, 2020, we had no such arrangements. There has been no material change in our contractual obligations other than in the ordinary course of business since our fiscal year ended December 31, 2020. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations, including interest payments, as of December 31, 2020 and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Payments Due By Period Total Less than one year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years After 5 Years Term loan $ 3,356 $ 90 $ 3,266 $ $ Facility operating leases 836 599 237 Purchase obligations 396 396 Total $ 4,588 $ 1,085 $ 3,503 $ $ 34 Table of Contents In addition to the table above, which reflects only fixed payment obligations, we have two license agreements to maintain exclusive rights to certain patents. Under these license agreements, we are required to pay 1% of net sales of products sold to entities other than the U.S. government. In the event of a sublicense, we will owe 21% of license fees and must pass through 1% of the sub-licensees net sales of products sold to entities other than the U.S. government. The license agreements also stipulate minimum annual royalties of $50,000 per year. In connection with our acquisition of Equipois in December 2015, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois under a license agreement with the developer of certain intellectual property related to mechanical balance and support arm technologies, which grants us an exclusive license with respect to the technology and patent rights for certain fields of use. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we will be required to pay a single-digit royalty on net receipts, subject to a $50,000 annual minimum royalty requirement. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. Purchase obligations are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. We had purchase obligations primarily for purchases of inventory and manufacturing related service contracts totaling $0.4 million as of December 31, 2020, which is expected to be paid within a year. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements under the caption Recent Accounting Pronouncements for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 35 Table of Contents