Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere. Any and all statements contained in this Annual Report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Terms such as may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and terms of similar import (including the negative of any of the foregoing) may be intended to identify forward-looking statements. However, not all forward-looking statements may contain one or more of these identifying terms. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report may include, without limitation, statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including plans or objectives relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) a projection of income (including income/loss), earnings (including earnings/loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items, (iii) our future financial performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and analysis of financial condition by management or in the results of operations included pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), (iv) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities for exoskeleton technology in general and our exoskeleton products in particular, (v) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, and (vi) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above. The forward-looking statements are not meant to predict or guarantee actual results, performance, events or circumstances and may not be realized because they are based upon our current projections, plans, objectives, beliefs, expectations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and other influences, many of which we have no control over. Actual results and the timing of certain events and circumstances may differ materially from those described by the forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties. Factors that may influence or contribute to the inaccuracy of the forward-looking statements or cause actual results to differ materially from expected or desired results may include, without limitation, our inability to obtain adequate financing, the significant length of time and resources associated with the development of our products and related insufficient cash flows and resulting illiquidity, our inability to expand our business, significant government regulation of medical devices and the healthcare industry, the results of clinical studies or trials, lack of product diversification, volatility in the price of our raw materials, existing or increased competition, results of arbitration and litigation, stock volatility and illiquidity, and our failure to implement our business plans or strategies. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described by the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report appears in the section captioned Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because of the risks and uncertainties related to them and to the risk factors. We disclaim any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect any new information or future events or circumstances or otherwise. Readers should read this Annual Report in conjunction with the discussion under the caption Risk Factors, our financial statements and the related notes thereto in this Annual Report, and other documents which we may file from time to time with the SEC. Notes regarding references to Ekso Bionics In this Annual Report, the Company, we, its and our refers to Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and Ekso Bionics refers to Ekso Bionics, Inc. as it existed prior to the January 15, 2014 merger of our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ekso Acquisition Corp., with and into Ekso Bionics, Inc. or the Merger. Ekso Bionics was the surviving corporation in the Merger and became our wholly-owned subsidiary, and all of the outstanding Ekso Bionics stock was converted into shares of our common stock. Ekso , Ekso Bionics , EksoVest , EksoWorks , EksoGT , EksoNR , EksoZeroG , EksoUE , EksoPulse , and EksoOutcomes are registered and unregistered trademarks of the Company. All other trademarks that may appear in this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Overview We design, develop and sell exoskeleton technology to augment human strength, endurance and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple markets and can be used both by able-bodied persons as well as by persons with physical disabilities. We have sold or leased devices that (i) enable individuals with neurological conditions affecting gait (stroke and spinal cord injury, or SCI) to rehabilitate, and in some cases, to walk again, (ii) assist individuals with a broad range of upper extremity impairments, and (iii) allow industrial workers to perform difficult repetitive work for extended periods. We believe that the commercial opportunity for exoskeleton technology adoption is accelerating as a result of recent advancements in material technologies, electronic and electrical engineering, control technologies, and sensor and software development. Taken individually, many of these advancements have become ubiquitous in peoples everyday lives. We believe that we have learned how to integrate these existing technologies and wrap the result around a human being efficiently, elegantly and safely, supported by an industry-leading intellectual property portfolio. We further believe that we can do so across a broad spectrum of applications, from persons with lower limb paralysis to able-bodied users. In July 2019, we announced the expansion of our medical exoskeleton portfolio with an upper extremity rehabilitation device called EksoUE. EksoUEs wearable upper body exoskeleton assists patients with a broad range of upper extremity impairments and aims to provide them with a wider active range of motion and increased endurance rehabilitation sessions of higher intensity. In August 2019, we introduced our next generation lower extremity rehabilitation exoskeleton, EksoNR, which succeeds our EksoGT. Our EksoNR is used as a rehabilitation tool to allow physicians and therapists to rehabilitate patients who have suffered a stroke or spinal cord injury. With its unique features designed specifically for hospitals and its proprietary SmartAssist software, EksoNR allows for the early mobilization of patients, enabling increased endurance during rehabilitation sessions through higher step counts and for longer periods. The intent is to allow the patient's central nervous system to take advantage of a patient's neuroplasticity to maximize the patients recovery. For able-bodied industrial workers, the EksoVest is an upper body exoskeleton that elevates and supports a worker's arms to assist them with tasks ranging from chest height to overhead. It is lightweight and low profile, making it comfortable to wear while enabling freedom of motion. The goal is for workplaces with the EksoVest to experience fewer on-site injuries while tasks are completed faster and with higher quality results, for workers to stay healthier and experience increased stamina, and for companies to gain greater productivity in factories and on construction sites. In 2019, we focused on increasing sales of the EksoVest and the support arm, EksoZeroG Arm, by pursuing alternative channels, such as rental agreements with construction equipment and heavy tool providers and working with automotive and related manufacturers to roll out our products globally within their assembly operations. We also believe that there is additional mid-to-long-term potential in the industrial markets, and accordingly, we will continue our development efforts to expand our EksoWorks product offerings. While we believe that advancements in technology will continue driving commercial interest in and further development of exoskeleton systems, we also recognize that we are in the early stages of development of exoskeleton capabilities. In order to advance the commercialization of our exoskeleton technology, we intend to focus our efforts in 2020 on the following key initiatives: Drive robotic exoskeleton rehabilitation to become the standard of care for both in-patient and out-patient rehabilitation for patients with some form of extremity weakness or paralysis in the United States. Continue to introduce new indications and features in rehabilitation for our EksoNR, which could expand access to care to more patients, and for our EksoPulse Analytics, which aids in providing more personalized care in rehabilitation sessions. Build on the initial launch of our EksoUE by introducing it into multiple channels in the Americas, the Asia Pacific region, or APAC, and Europe, the Middle East and Africa, or EMEA. Leverage our market position in exoskeleton rehabilitation by introducing new products and therapies beyond the scope of our existing devices. Expand on our position in industrial markets with our EksoZeroG Arm for aerial work platforms and scaffolding and EksoVest for overhead work applications by forming strategic partnerships to define and develop new uses for these and potential derivative products. Build on our initial success in Singapore and Hong Kong by expanding our reach to additional select countries in APAC, such as Malaysia and Australia. Improve the cost structure through our joint venture (our China JV) with Zhejiang Youchuang Venture Capital Investment Co., Ltd. and Shaoxing City Keqiao District Paradise Silicon Intelligent Robot Industrial Investment Partnership (Limited 4 Table of Contents Partnership), who we refer to as our Joint Venture Partners of our China JV, to drive unit costs lower for both our medical and industrial products and to develop and serve the exoskeleton market in China and other Asian markets. EksoHealth - Rehabilitation Today, the focus of our healthcare business is on rehabilitation robotics. We are leveraging our patented exoskeleton technology to develop and market products intended to enable patients with some form of lower limb impairment to rehabilitate earlier and with better outcomes than the current standard of care. EksoNR Our latest product, the EksoNR, is a wearable bionic suit that allows our hospital and rehabilitation customers to provide in-patients and out-patients with SCI and hemiplegia due to stroke the ability to stand and walk over ground with a full weight-bearing, reciprocal gait using a cane, crutches or a walker under the supervision of a physical therapist. Walking is achieved by a user shifting their weight, balancing like in normal walking and initiating steps when safe to progress forward. If needed, some patients utilize sensors in the device which in turn initiate steps. Battery-powered motors drive the legs, detecting the deficient neuromuscular function and providing that level of assistance necessary for a user to complete their step. Users can expect to walk with aid from the device the first time they put on the EksoNR exoskeleton (after passing an assessment). Physical therapists can transfer patients to or from their wheelchair and don or remove the EksoNR in less than ten minutes. The EksoNR incorporates SmartAssist, our proprietary, adaptive software that allows a patient to perform to their capability but will dynamically provide 0-100% power to either side of the body as needed for successful walking. SmartAssist can promote a greater number of high-quality steps in a short time period and support the early re-learning of correct step patterns and weight shifts, potentially mitigating compensatory behaviors. SmartAssist also has allowed our customers to significantly expand the spectrum of patients that can potentially benefit from robotic rehabilitation. In addition, SmartAssist can aid in promoting early mobility by training patients (PreGait) to walk in an exoskeleton, which should expand access to care to more patients. SmartAssist also includes next generation Variable Assist technology that provides more freedom for healthcare providers to allow patients to power themselves (FreeGait) in the most appropriate ways possible. Another important feature of our EksoNR is its EksoPulse Analytics, a real-time data capture program. EksoPulse gathers and transmits statistics and device information during EksoNR walking sessions. This information can be used to track patient progression and to monitor device utilization. The EksoNR records data such as steps, speed, step size, and other settings along with all error logs and operating parameters. Data is sent securely to our servers where it is available for customers to view, filter, and export through a secure web portal. This feature enables more thorough patient care while reducing manual data entry. It also enables us to provide a higher level of service through early identification and thorough reporting of device errors, saving customers the time and expense of unnecessary on-site visits. The EksoNR is used by customers in both in-patient and out-patient settings. Our customers believe that for patients with some motor ability preserved (for example, after a stroke or an incomplete SCI), the EksoNR exoskeleton offers unique benefits to help therapists teach proper step patterns and weight shifts, allowing patients potentially to mobilize earlier and ultimately to walk again. By allowing individuals to stand and walk in a full weight-bearing setting, early clinical evidence is also beginning to show that EksoNR may offer potential healthcare benefits (including for patients with complete SCI) such as reducing post-injury medical costs through reduction in secondary complications such as pressure sores, urinary tract infections, bowel problems, pneumonia and other respiratory issues, bone loss/osteoporosis, cardiovascular disease and psychological disorders. EksoGT EksoGT, previously our leading product, has been superseded by EksoNR. We may still sell small quantities of EksoGT into certain foreign countries while awaiting regulatory clearance for our EksoNR. For existing customers with one or more previously purchased EksoGT, we offer an upgrade package. As of February 1, 2020, we had shipped over 440 EksoGT and EksoNR units combined to 350 rehabilitation facilities or customers worldwide. The number of units utilized at a facility varies from one to six, and is driven by the number of beds and rehabilitation sessions a hospital can offer and that hospitals adoption of robotics within its rehabilitation protocols. 5 Table of Contents EksoUE In 2019, we entered the market for upper extremity rehabilitation devices with EksoUE. EksoUE is a wearable assistive device that helps to reduce the effect of gravity on the wearers shoulders and arms. While worn, EksoUE allows longer, more intense rehabilitation sessions by reducing fatigue, while also allowing the patient to achieve a larger active range of motion. Similar to EksoNR, EksoUE is a tool for use by trained clinicians, primarily physical and occupational therapists, during rehabilitation sessions. Based on the same technology that is used in our industrial products, EksoUE uses a passive (non-motorized) design which avoids the need to charge or manage batteries and other electrical systems. EksoUE shipments in 2019 have been to key rehabilitation centers for clinical feedback. In 2020, we plan to launch EksoUE in the broader rehabilitation market globally. Market Overview The primary market for our medical products is rehabilitation clinics with significant stroke and SCI populations. Due to their chronic nature, we believe that these conditions have an enormous clinical and economic impact on both people with the conditions and the healthcare system. According to the Centers for Disease Control, there are approximately 800,000 strokes suffered per year in the U.S. and approximately 15 million worldwide, making stroke rehabilitation our largest target market. Likewise, according to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, there are approximately 18,000 incidences of SCI per year in the U.S., and according to the World Health Organization, between 250,000 to 500,000 incidences worldwide. While the market opportunity for robotic exoskeleton rehabilitation may be large, we also recognize that the path for medical devices to become the standard of care is long and challenging. We believe that our ability to accelerate adoption will also be based, in part, on our ability to build on our and our partners early efforts: (i) to expand clinical evidence and (ii) to drive toward standard of care. We are already seeing customers appreciate that one way for stroke patients at in-patient facilities to receive the recommended amount of rehabilitation per guidelines is by using an EksoNR, the only device currently in the market that has the versatility to provide an over-ground gait training intervention that is task-specific, high intensity and allows for a margin of error, across the continuum of care. Clinical Evidence Many of our early clinical customers have undertaken research to evaluate the use in rehabilitation of exoskeletons in general and our EksoNR and EksoGT in particular. Although these studies primarily have focused on feasibility and safety and have relied on small sample sizes, initial study findings have been favorable. Also, we have now completed our company sponsored WISE (Walking Improvement for SCI with Exoskeletons) study. These sites, in turn, have enrolled and completed 30 patients. The primary endpoint of the WISE study sought to demonstrate that a 12-week robotic gait-training regimen can lead to a clinically meaningful improvement in independent walking speed. Secondary endpoints from the trial are examining economic factors such as number of physical therapists and staff required during training, the physical burden on physical therapists assisting and supervising during training, and the influence of factors that may modify the gait recovery. The data is currently being analyzed for journal submission. The European Union also requires a two-track approach to market penetration and subsequent coverage, requiring separate claims for purchasing the device and for requests for reimbursement. We are well represented in clinics run by German and Austrian accident insurers, with four out of nine rehabilitation sites in Germany and four out of four rehabilitation sites in Austria. We also have a growing number of patients in Europe, who get reimbursement on a case-by-case decision covered by public and private health insurers for in-patient and out-patient treatment. We operate out-patient rehabilitation sessions paid by an accident insurer, where a patient trains using our EksoGT or EksoNR device twice a week. We are using these examples to integrate exoskeletal therapy in existing care pathways. In the United Kingdom, the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, or NICE, has selected us as the first exoskeleton company to produce a Medtech Innovation Briefing, or MIB, which are designed to support National Health Services, or NHS, and social care commissioners and staff who are considering using new medical devices and other medical or diagnostic technologies. The MIB highlighted the innovative aspect of our proprietary SmartAssist software, which differentiates our EksoNR and EksoGT from other available exoskeletons. Economic Value Proposition We believe that our EksoNR allows our customers to benefit economically without modifying the reimbursement model or reimbursement codes. First, many of our customers have reported that utilizing the EksoNR promotes continuous patient improvement beginning sooner than with traditional rehabilitation. This may lead to a commensurate increase in insurance reimbursement. Second, many of our customers have reported that they have been able to attract more patients to their facilities 6 Table of Contents with our EksoNR as part of their rehabilitation program, and this has also reportedly driven positive economics for our customers. Lastly, improvements in patient outcomes has been reported to impact other metrics including discharge to community, staffing efficiency in the rehabilitation unit, and reduction in readmission rates. Current Sales and Marketing Efforts Our key marketing goal today is to achieve broad-based commercial adoption of our EksoNR in the rehabilitation setting. We are focusing our go-to-market protocols and collateral on our three target audiences: medical administrators, medical directors/therapists, and patients. Working closely with thought leaders, we will continue to build upon our early user-group exchanges, develop clinical education programs, and grow our medical advisory council. There continues to be high market interest in expanding neurosciences service lines. As such, in 2020, our sales priorities are to effectively educate both clinical and executive stakeholders on the economic and clinical value of starting an EksoNR Robotics Stroke and SCI Rehabilitation Program. In tandem, we continue to leverage our EksoNR customer base to educate and mentor strategic target centers that specialize in Stroke and SCI rehabilitation in key market service areas across the US and Canada. Geographically, the priorities have been North America (Canada, the U.S., and Mexico), EMEA, and Singapore and Hong Kong in APAC. Currently, we utilize a direct sales force for the U.S., Canada, Singapore, Hong Kong, Germany and Switzerland. We also have an expanding distributor network in EMEA and Asia. The sales and marketing team is principally based in the U.S., Germany, and Singapore, and is structured as follows: One commercial leader each for the Americas, EMEA, and APAC; Americas, EMEA, and APAC sales professionals that pursue new prospects and organizes demonstrations; Clinical professionals and physical therapists that provide peer-to-peer demonstrations and trainings; Marketing professionals and consultants to build awareness and generate demand; Ambassadors, who are stroke and SCI survivors, that provide demonstrations and personal experiences. The sales cycle for the EksoNR averages approximately eight to 12 months for a first device and two to four months for subsequent devices. Our typical sale is our EksoNR complete package, which includes the device and all relevant components, two sets of batteries for continuous run-time, training through two levels of certification, and SmartAssist software. Customers also typically purchase Ekso Care, which is our one- to four-year after-sales service package. Clinical Services and Customer Success We have developed leading clinical capability in robotic rehabilitation, and we provide extensive training and support to our customers to ensure they are successful. All rentals or sales include customer training. This is comprised of both on-line and in-person training of our customers physical therapists. We have made this a high priority as we recognize getting customers comfortable using our product is a prerequisite to them successfully implementing a robotic rehabilitation program. In addition to the training that is included with each sale or rental, we also offer additional training services for customers who are interested in more advanced uses of the product or who desire more supervised experiences. After Sales Service We provide direct service for the EksoNR at our facility in Richmond, California, in Germany for our EMEA customers, and through a third party service provider in Hong Kong for APAC customers. When maintenance or service is required, a customer schedules service by contacting us and we then arrange for the appropriate service, depending on the level of Ekso Care the customer has purchased. In some cases, we may decide it is appropriate to have an Ekso field technician fly to the customer site to service the device. The EksoNR is designed with EksoPulse, which allows us to diagnose many customer service issues remotely. In addition to the Ekso Care service programs we provide a Fee-for-Service option. In this program, EksoNR repair is fulfilled per quote on demand of the customer and as per our repair price list. Manufacturing and Supply Chain We produce the EksoNR at our facilities in Richmond, California for worldwide sales. We currently run one line for one shift per day and believe we have the capacity to eventually run additional lines and shifts should we deem it appropriate. The EksoNR uses over 700 purchased parts, which we source globally from over 70 suppliers. Whenever possible, we seek to secure dual source suppliers for our components. 7 Table of Contents Our commitment to the philosophy of continuous improvement has continued to increase product performance and reliability over the past year. As a result, we expect our cost of field service will continue to decline over the next 12 months. EksoWorks - Able-Bodied Industrial Applications We continue to pursue market and product development opportunities for the industrial market. Our initial efforts have included EksoZeroG Arm, a mobile arm mount that makes heavy tools feel weightless and enables workers to be more productive and safe, and EksoVest, an upper body exoskeleton that elevates and supports a worker's arms to assist them with tasks ranging from chest height to overhead. Market feedback continues to indicate a growing imperative among construction and manufacturing companies to drive adoption of improved safety and health practices. Furthermore, based on initial field-testing and market research, we believe that industrial exoskeletons have the potential to help prevent workforce injuries, improve productivity and over time reduce workers compensation and related costs. In the U.S. alone, our target manufacturing and construction verticals employ a total of 18.4 million workers (according to U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics), many of whom can potentially benefit from our assistive technology. In addition, human augmentation technology is being viewed by senior managers of companies that have participated in field-testing as an opportunity to extend the careers of experienced and skilled workers while also changing the work environment to attract future workers to these careers. While we believe that the evidence clearly demonstrates that there is significant demand for human augmentation in industrial applications, adoption rates remain a challenge due to the nascent nature of the technology. That said, we believe that there is significant mid-to-long-term potential in the industrial markets, and accordingly, we will continue our product development efforts to expand our EksoWorks product offerings. Given the fragmented nature of the industrial market we believe that the best approach in this market is work with established strategic partners that can help us target applications tailored for specific use cases. We believe that leveraging our extensive exoskeleton expertise and intellectual property portfolio with the established channel and application expertise of one or more strategic partners unlocks the highest value for us and our stockholders. We continue to engage with multiple potential industrial partners, and plan to continue this approach going forward. China Joint Venture We entered into a joint venture, or the China JV, to develop and serve the exoskeleton market in China and certain other Asian markets and to create a global exoskeleton manufacturing center. The Equity Joint Venture Contract, dated January 30, 2019, between us, Zhejiang Youchuang Venture Capital Investment Co., Ltd., or ZYVC, and Shaoxing City Keqiao District Paradise Silicon Intelligent Robot Industrial Investment Partnership (Limited Partnership), or Industrial Investment Fund, as amended by the Amendment to the Joint Venture Contract, dated April 30, 2019, or the JV Agreement, provides for the establishment of the China JV as a limited liability company pursuant to the Law on Sino-foreign Equity Joint Ventures and the Regulations for the Implementation of the Law on Sino-foreign Equity Joint Ventures. ZYVC, Industrial Investment Fund and we will hold 41.54%, 38.46% and 20.00% of the China JV, respectively. ZYVC and Industrial Investment Fund, or the Joint Venture Partners, will make their contributions in the form of an aggregate of RMB 624 million cash to the China JV (10% of which, or RMB 62.4 million, is to be made within 90 days of the formation of the China JV, RMB 124.8 million of which will be made upon notice by the China JV and the remainder of which will be made within the 10 years of the formation of the China JV), while we have licensed certain patented technologies and non-patented manufacturing technologies in China, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and other countries to be mutually agreed upon by us and the China JV (but excluding Japan, India and Australia), or the JV Territory, with equivalent value of RMB 145 million and related to the EksoGT, EksoVest and EksoZeroG Arm and their improvements (including the EksoNR), or the JV Products, to the China JV as our contribution pursuant to a Technology License Agreement dated October 22, 2019 between us and the China JV, or the Technology License Agreement. As of December 31, 2019 , the transfer of the licensed patented technologies was not completed. Pursuant to the JV Agreement and the Technology License Agreement, the China JV will build a manufacturing facility and will manufacture the JV Products in the JV Territory under our trademark and brands. Pursuant to the Technology License Agreement, during the term of the China JV and following a royalty-free period, we will receive a royalty fee based on a mid-single digits percentage of the net sales revenue of the products manufactured and sold by the China JV. In 2019 the China JV acquired facilities and began outfitting its production facility. In the fourth quarter of 2019, we completed the technology transfer for EksoVest (but not the transfer of patented technologies) and the China JV assembled its first EkosVest devices9. As discussed further under Item 1A. Risk FactorsRisks Related to Our Business and the Industry in Which We OperateU.S. regulatory review may result in delays, restrictions or other adverse impacts on the operations of our China JV of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, after receiving questions from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), in December 2019, the Company and the China JV submitted a joint voluntary notice to CFIUS to review the transaction. 8 Table of Contents CFIUS has determined that the establishment of the China JV is subject to CFIUSs jurisdiction, and pending completion of its investigation, CFIUS imposed interim measures that temporarily suspend the Companys contributions to the China JV and other integration activities. The Company continues to engage with CFIUS to address its concerns, and expects CFIUS review and investigation, as well as its assessment of whether its concerns can be mitigated, to end by April 13, 2020. Subject to satisfactory completion of CFIUS review and any mitigation that may be required by CFIUS, as well as any impact of the COVID-19 virus, we anticipate that further qualifications will be completed in the first half of 2020 along with the ramp up of production capability and localized component supply chain. Intellectual Property We have established an extensive intellectual property portfolio that includes various U.S. patents and patent applications. The table below provides a summary of U.S. patents by issuing status and ownership status. Issuing Status License Status Issued Patents Pending Applications Licensed to the Company 15 Exclusively licensed to the Company 6 Co-owned with Regents of the University of California, exclusively licensed to the Company 4 Co-owned with the Regents of the University of California 3 Sole ownership by the Company 25 12 Total: 65 53 12 Pending applications mean a complete application has been filed with the applicable patent authority and additional action is pending. Many of these applications have also been filed internationally as appropriate for their respective subject matter. As of December 31, 2019 , 199 applications have issued or have been allowed as patents worldwide. Our patent portfolio contains 237 cases that have issued or are in prosecution in 23 countries. Our patent portfolio includes product and method type claims, since the devices that we produce and the processes performed by those devices are patentable. Our patents encompass technologies relevant to our devices, including medical exoskeletons, commercial exoskeletons, actuators, and strength-enhancing exoskeletons. The earliest priority date of the portfolio reaches back to 2003, and new applications continue to be filed. Licensors include the Regents of the University of California, or UC Berkeley, and Garrett Brown (as a result of our acquisition of technology of Equipois, LLC, or Equipois). The license with UC Berkeley consists of two agreements and one amendment covering ten patent cases exclusively licensed to us, nine of which have issued and one of which remains in prosecution or the UC Berkeley License Agreements. Inventions covered by a further three patent applications are co-owned by us and UC Berkeley, with no license agreement between us and UC Berkeley. As a result, UC Berkeley may license its rights in these patents to a third party. With respect to two of these co-owned patent applications, UC Berkeley has licensed their rights in the U.S. to an unrelated third party. The third patent application will need to be fully prosecuted before it can be determined which claims are exclusive to us (through a previous license) and which claims UC Berkeley may license to other entities. Pursuant to the UC Berkeley License Agreements, Ekso Bionics initially paid UC Berkeley consideration consisting of $5,000 in cash and 310,400 common shares of Ekso Bionics, and committed to pay a 1% royalty on sales, including sales generated by sublicenses. In addition, the UC Berkeley License Agreements call for minimum annual payments of $50,000. We do not pay royalties to UC Berkeley on products sold or to be resold to the U.S. government. In some cases, as a result of government funding we receive, the patents have a government use license, granting the U.S. government a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license for use of the inventions for or on behalf of the U.S. government, as is typical in the case of government sponsored research. In connection with our acquisition of assets of Equipois, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois under a license agreement with Garrett Brown, the developer of certain intellectual property related to mechanical balance and support arm 9 Table of Contents technologies, which grants us an exclusive license with respect to the technology and patent rights for certain fields of use. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we will be required to pay Mr. Brown a single-digit royalty on net receipts, subject to a $50,000 annual minimum royalty requirement. Intellectual Property Out-Licensing We believe that the breadth of the coverage across various bionic systems and technologies, together with our freedom to grant sub-licenses under the UC Berkeley License Agreements gives us the potential to generate licensing revenue in fields outside our present areas of commercialization. Since 2009, we have generated approximately $1.8 million in such licensing revenue from our two licensees: Lockheed Martin Corporation or Lockheed and OttoBock Healthcare Product GmbH or OttoBock. We receive revenue pursuant to a Government Field Cross License Agreement dated as of July 1, 2013 between Ekso Bionics, Inc. and Lockheed and a Cross License Agreement dated as of July 1, 2013 between Ekso Bionics, Inc. and Lockheed. Pursuant to these agreements, we have licensed to Lockheed certain rights with respect to our anthropomorphic exoskeleton technology for which Lockheed is obligated to pay us a royalty on sales of products incorporating such technology. Royalty fees from Lockheed were either de minimus or nil for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. With respect to OttoBock, we received exclusivity payments pursuant to the License and Services Agreement dated October 27, 2014. The License and Services Agreement grants OttoBock exclusive rights in order to develop a semi-active prosthetic knee prototype for use in medical prosthetics and provides that OttoBock will pay us a royalty based on sales by OttoBock of products incorporating the licensed technology. Royalty fees from OttoBock were $nil and $150,000 for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 , respectively. In November of 2019, OttoBock informed us that they will not be pursuing commercialization of products based on our intellectual property. As a result, we do not expect additional royalty revenue from OttoBock in the future. In March 2018, we entered into a set of agreements with Daydo Co, Ltd., or Daydo, related to distribution and cross-licensing of EksoVest. Under these agreements, Daydo has exclusive distribution rights for EksoVest within Japan and rights to modify EksoVest as needed to address the Japanese market in exchange for royalty payments to us. We also have rights to use any improvements made by Daydo. Daydo released its localized version of EksoVest (called Task AR) in January of 2019. Revenue from related royalty payments were de minimis in 2019. Competition The medical technology and industrial robotics industries are characterized by intense competition and rapid technological change. We believe that a number of other companies are developing competitive technology and devices for both the able-bodied and medical fields of use and many of these competitors have significantly more financial and other resources than we possess. In the medical field, we face competition from companies that are focused on technology for rehabilitation of patients suffering from stroke and related neurological disabilities as well as from companies that are focused on SCI. In stroke, Cyberdyne, Parker Hannafins Indego, and ReWalk all now offer ambulatory exoskeletons for rehabilitation use in various markets where we operate. While not functionally equivalent, Hocoma, AlterG, Aretech and Reha Technology are selling treadmill-based gait therapies. In SCI, ReWalk Robotics and Parker Hannafin also sell ambulatory exoskeletons. Other companies who have announced plans to commercialize robotic exoskeletons include: Bionik Laboratories and SuitX. Technologies developed by competitors in the areas of stroke rehabilitation and SCI represent therapeutic interventions with utility at varying points of the continuum of care. Clinically, the EksoNR is unique in its broad ability to mobilize pre- or even non-ambulatory patients using a full weight bearing, over ground, task-based platform. From a practice management perspective, the EksoNR is less expensive than many other systems, has a smaller footprint, the ability to move around the hospital, and uses standard power requirements that make it easy to integrate into existing infrastructure. Other over-ground exoskeletons were initially designed for an individual to achieve ambulation reliant on the device. By contrast, the EksoNRs design accommodates patients with complete paraplegia and additionally includes features that are optimized to assist therapists in helping patients with some motor ability learn to walk again in a clinical setting, treating several patients and indications in a single day. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the most pressing challenges we face are not necessarily competitive technologies, but rather achieving rapid market awareness and adoption of this emerging technology while acclimating prospects to a fundamentally new paradigm in neuro-rehabilitation and mobility. In addition, it may be difficult for the rehabilitation department of a hospital or clinic to secure the funds for acquisition of an Ekso device in an environment where capital expenditures of this magnitude are not commonly incurred by those rehabilitation departments. 10 Table of Contents In the able-bodied field, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon, BAE Systems, Panasonic, Honda, Daewoo, Noonee, Revision Military, SuitX, Skel-ex, Levitate and Cyberdyne - among others - are each developing or commercializing some form of exoskeleton for military and/or industrial applications. The field of robotic exoskeleton technology remains in its infancy. As this field develops, we believe that we will face increased competition on the basis of product features, clinical outcomes, price, services and other factors. Our competitive position will depend on multiple, complex factors, including our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. In some instances, competitors may also offer, or may attempt to develop, alternative therapies for disease states that may be delivered without a medical device. Governmental Regulation and Product Approval U.S. Regulation The U.S. government regulates the medical device industry through various agencies, including but not limited to the Food and Drug Administration, or the FDA, which administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or FDCA. The design, testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, distribution, advertising, and marketing of medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Any medical device product that we develop must receive all requisite regulatory approvals or clearances, as the case may be, before it may be marketed in a particular country. Device Development, Marketing Clearance and Approval. The FDA classifies medical devices into one of three classes (Class I, II or III) based on the degree of risk the FDA determines to be associated with a device and the extent of control deemed necessary to ensure the devices safety and effectiveness. Devices requiring fewer controls because they are deemed to pose lower risk are placed in Class I or II. Class I devices are deemed to pose the least risk and are subject only to general controls applicable to all devices, such as requirements for device labeling, premarket notification, and adherence to the FDAs current good manufacturing practice requirements, as reflected in its Quality System Regulation, or QSR. Class II devices are intermediate risk devices that are subject to general controls and may also be subject to special controls such as performance standards, product-specific guidance documents, special labeling requirements, patient registries or post-market surveillance. Class III devices are those for which insufficient information exists to assure safety and effectiveness solely through general or special controls, and include life- sustaining, life-supporting, or implantable devices, and devices not substantially equivalent to a device that is already legally marketed. Most Class I devices, and some Class II devices are exempted by regulation from the 510(k) clearance requirement and can be marketed without prior authorization from the FDA. Class I and Class II devices that have not been so exempted are eligible for marketing through the 510(k) clearance pathway. By contrast, devices placed in Class III generally require premarket approval, or PMA, prior to commercial marketing. To obtain 510(k) clearance for a medical device, an applicant must submit a premarket notification application to the FDA demonstrating that the device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device, which is typically a Class II device that is legally marketed in the United States. A device is substantially equivalent to a predicate device if it has the same intended use and (i) the same technological characteristics, or (ii) has different technological characteristics and the information submitted demonstrates that the device is as safe and effective as a legally marketed device and does not raise different questions of safety or effectiveness. A showing of substantial equivalence sometimes, but not always, requires clinical data. Generally, the 510(k) clearance process can exceed 90 days and may extend to a year or more. After a device has received 510(k) clearance for a specific intended use, any modification that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, such as a significant change in the design, materials, method of manufacture or intended use, will require a new 510(k) clearance or if the device as modified is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed predicate device PMA. While the determination as to whether new authorization is needed is initially left to the manufacturer, the FDA may review this determination and evaluate the regulatory status of the modified product at any time and may request the manufacturer to cease marketing and recall the modified device until 510(k) clearance or PMA is obtained. The manufacturer may also be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. The second, more comprehensive, approval process applies to a new device that is not substantially equivalent to a predicate device or that is to be used in supporting or sustaining life or preventing impairment. These devices are normally Class III devices requiring PMA. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds there is reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. The PMA process takes substantially longer than the 510(k) process, approximately one to two years or more. In some instances, the FDA may find that a device is new and not substantially equivalent to a predicate device but is also not a high-risk device as is generally the case with Class III PMA devices. In these instances, the FDA may allow a device to be 11 Table of Contents reclassified from Class III to Class I or II. The de novo reclassification option is an alternate pathway to classify novel devices of low to moderate risk that had automatically been placed in Class III after receiving a not substantially equivalent (NSE) determination in response to a 510(k) notification. The FDCA also allows a sponsor to submit a de novo reclassification request to the FDA for novel low to moderate risk devices without first being required to submit a 510(k) application. These types of applications are referred to as Evaluation of Automatic Class III Designation or de novo. In instances where a device is deemed not substantially equivalent to a Class II predicate device, the candidate device may be filed as a de novo application which may lead to delays in regulatory decisions by the FDA. FDA review of a de novo application may lead the FDA to identify the device as either a Class I or II device and subject to or exempt from 510(k) premarket notification. Clinical trials are generally required to support a PMA or de novo reclassification application and are sometimes required for 510(k) clearance. Clinical trials generally require an investigational device exemption application, or IDE, approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients and study sites, unless the product is deemed a non-significant risk device eligible for more abbreviated IDE requirements. Clinical trials are subject to extensive monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Clinical trials must be conducted under the oversight of an institutional review board or an IRB, for the relevant clinical trial sites and must comply with FDA regulations, including but not limited to those relating to good clinical practices. Conducting a clinical trial, also requires obtaining the patients' informed consent in form and substance compliant with both FDA requirements and state and federal privacy and human subject protection regulations. The FDA or the IRB could suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. Even if a trial is completed, the results of clinical testing may not adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device or may otherwise not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval to market the product in the U.S. To date, the EksoGT has been the subject of several clinical studies, some sponsored by us, as well as non-Ekso-sponsored independent studies conducted by rehabilitation institutions. In addition, we are currently conducting several studies to investigate additional indications for use for the EksoGT, as well as to evaluate clinical and non-clinical outcomes of using the device. Our current indication for use, or IFU, clearance for stroke and SCI. On April 4, 2016, we received clearance from the FDA to market our EksoGT robotic exoskeleton for use in the treatment of individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke, individuals with SCI at levels T4 to L5, and individuals with SCI at levels of T3 to C7 (ASIA D), in accordance with the devices labeling. On July 19, 2016, we received clearance from the FDA to expand/clarify the indications and labeling to expressly include individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke who have upper extremity function of at least 4 out of 5 strength in at least one arm. After a device is placed on the market, numerous regulatory requirements apply. These include: product listing and establishment registration, which helps facilitate FDA inspections and other regulatory action; QSR, which requires manufacturers, including third-party manufacturers, to follow stringent design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during all aspects of the manufacturing process; labeling regulations and FDA prohibitions against the promotion of products for un-cleared, unapproved or off-label use or indication; 510(k) clearance of product modifications that could significantly affect safety or efficacy or that would constitute a major change in intended use of one of our cleared devices; medical device reporting regulations, which require that manufacturers comply with FDA requirements to report if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or a similar device were to recur; post-approval restrictions or conditions, including post-approval study commitments; post-market surveillance regulations, which apply when necessary to protect the public health or to provide additional safety and effectiveness data for the device; the FDA's recall authority, whereby it can ask, or under certain conditions order, device manufacturers to recall from the market a product that is in violation of governing laws and regulations; regulations pertaining to voluntary recalls; and notices provision regarding corrections or removals. Advertising and promotion of medical devices, in addition to being regulated by the FDA, are also regulated by the Federal Trade Commission and by state regulatory and enforcement authorities. Recently, promotional activities for FDA-regulated products of other companies have been the subject of enforcement action brought under healthcare reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. In addition, under the federal Lanham Act and similar state laws, competitors and others can initiate litigation relating to 12 Table of Contents advertising claims. If the FDA determines that promotional or training material related to an approved device constitute the promotion of an un-cleared or unapproved use, the FDA could request that the promotional or training materials related to such device be modified or it could subject the manufacturer to regulatory or enforcement actions. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. The FDA has broad post-market and regulatory enforcement powers. We are subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA to determine our compliance with the QSR and other regulations. Since January 2019, there have been no reports of an adverse event relating to our EksoGT or EksoNR devices reported to FDA under the Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience Database. Foreign Regulation In addition to regulations in the U.S., we will be subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products in foreign countries. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The approval process varies from country to country, and the time may be longer or shorter than that required for FDA approval. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. The policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products and could also increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. Employees As of December 31, 2019 , we had 68 employees, including 67 full time employees and one part-time employee. Seven employees reside in Europe and three in Singapore. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Corporate Information We were incorporated as PN Med Group Inc. in Nevada on January 30, 2012. Prior to the Merger and Split-Off (each as defined below), our business was to distribute medical supplies and equipment in Chile. On January 15, 2014, we consummated the Merger, in which our wholly-owned subsidiary, Ekso Acquisition Corp., a corporation formed in the State of Delaware on January 3, 2014, merged with and into Ekso Bionics, Inc., a corporation incorporated in the State of Delaware on January 19, 2005. Ekso Bionics was the surviving corporation in the Merger and became our wholly-owned subsidiary. All of the outstanding Ekso Bionics' capital stock was converted into shares of our common stock in the Merger. In connection with the Merger and pursuant to a split-off agreement and general release, we transferred our pre-Merger assets and liabilities to our pre-Merger majority stockholders, in exchange for the surrender by them and cancellation of 2,497,586 shares of our common stock, or the Split-Off, after adjusting to give effect to the 1-for-7 reverse stock split, which occurred on May 4, 2016. As a result of the Merger and Split-Off, we discontinued our pre-Merger business and acquired the business of Ekso Bionics, and have continued the existing business operations of Ekso Bionics as a publicly-traded company under the name Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. Our principal executive office is located at 1414 Harbour Way South, Suite 1201, Richmond, California, and our telephone number is (510) 984-1761. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our internet address is www.eksobionics.com. This website address is intended to be an inactive, textual reference only; none of the material on this website is part of this Annual Report. Copies of our annual reports 13 Table of Contents on Form 10-K will be furnished without charge to any person who submits a written request directed to the attention of our Secretary, at our offices located at 1414 Harbour Way South, Suite 1201, Richmond, California, 94804. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our securities is highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk. We face a variety of risks that may affect our operations or financial results and many of those risks are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. Before investing in our securities, you should carefully consider the following risks, together with the financial and other information contained in this prospectus. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline and investors may lose all or a part of their investment. This Annual Report contains certain statements relating to future events or our future financial performance. Readers are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve risks and uncertainties, and that actual events or results may differ materially. In evaluating such statements, readers should specifically consider the various factors identified in this Annual Report, including the matters set forth below, which could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. The risks described below do not purport to be all the risks to which we could be exposed. This section is a summary of certain risks and is not set out in any particular order of priority. They are the risks that we presently believe are material to our operations. Additional risks of which we are not presently aware or which we presently deem immaterial may also impair our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business and the Industry in Which We Operate We have a limited operating history upon which investors can evaluate our future prospects. Although we were incorporated in 2005, we did not sell our first Ekso medical device until 2012 and did not sell our first industrial unit until 2016. Therefore, we have limited operating history upon which an evaluation of our business plan or performance and prospects can be made. Our business and prospects must be considered in light of the potential problems, delays, uncertainties and complications encountered in connection with a newly established business and creating a new industry. The risks include, but are not limited to, the possibility that we will not be able to develop functional and scalable products and services, or that although functional and scalable, our products and services will not be economical to market; that our competitors hold proprietary rights that preclude us from marketing such products; that our competitors market a superior or equivalent product; that we are not able to upgrade and enhance our technologies and products to accommodate new features and expanded service offerings; or that we fail to receive necessary regulatory clearances for our products. To successfully introduce and market our products at a profit, we must establish brand name recognition and competitive advantages for our products. There are no assurances that we can successfully address these challenges. If we are unsuccessful, we and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products that are safer, more effective, less costly, easier to use, or are otherwise more attractive, we may be unable to compete effectively with other companies. The medical technology and industrial robotics industries are characterized by intense competition and rapid technological change, and we will face competition on the basis of product features, clinical outcomes, price, services and other factors. Competitors may include large medical device and other companies, some of which have significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we do, and firms that are more specialized than we are with respect to particular markets. Our competition may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do or may be more successful in attracting potential customers, employees and strategic partners. Our competitive position will depend on multiple, complex factors, including our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. Competitors may offer, or may attempt to develop, more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more convenient alternatives to our products, including alternatives that could make the need for robotic exoskeletons obsolete. The development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies may render our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. The entry into the market of manufacturers located in low-cost manufacturing locations may also create pricing pressure, particularly in developing markets. Our future success depends, among other things, upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology, as well as to respond effectively to technological advances, and upon our ability to successfully implement our marketing strategies and execute our research and development plan. Our products or exoskeletons generally may not be accepted in the market. 15 Table of Contents We cannot be certain that our current products or any other products we may develop or market will achieve or maintain market acceptance. Market acceptance of our products depends on many factors, including our ability to convince key opinion leaders to provide recommendations regarding our products, convince distributors and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other technologies, convince health insurers and other third-party payers to cover and provide adequate payments for any products that are used for medical or therapeutic purposes, demonstrate that our products are reliable and supported by us in the field, supply and service sufficient quantities of products directly or through marketing alliances, and price products competitively in light of the current macroeconomic environment, which, particularly in the case of the medical device industry, is becoming increasingly price sensitive. In addition, the market for medical and industrial exoskeletons is new and unproven. We cannot be certain that the market for robotic exoskeletons will continue to develop, or that robotic exoskeletons for medical or industrial use will achieve market acceptance. If the exoskeleton market fails to develop, or develops more slowly than we anticipate, we and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Protecting our patent and other proprietary rights can be costly, and we may not be able to attain, defend or maintain such rights, which could harm our business. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. Failure to protect or to obtain, maintain or extend adequate patent and other intellectual property rights could materially adversely impact our competitive advantage and impair our business. Our issued patents may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner or may challenge the validity of our patents. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights ultimately may be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain any of our patents that issue. Furthermore, we have not filed applications for all of our patents internationally and may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or may lose access to technologies critical to our products in other countries. These include, in some cases, countries in which we are currently selling products and countries in which we intend to sell products in the future. We have agreed to transfer and license intellectual property and other rights for the manufacture and sale of our products in China and certain other Asian territories to a joint venture that we do not control and that may not act in our best interests, and we may not receive all anticipated benefits from the arrangement. In consideration for a 20% stake in the China JV and royalty rights based on net sales of the JV Products by the China JV following a royalty-free period, we have licensed certain patented technologies and non-patented manufacturing technologies in the JV Territory to the China JV. We have also granted to the China JV a license to use our trademarks free of charge in the JV Territory. As a result of these transfers and licenses, and the other agreements we have agreed to with the China JV and the Joint Venture Partners, we will be reliant on the China JV for the manufacturing and sale of the foregoing products in the JV Territory. We will also be reliant on our Joint Venture Partners to fund the China JV in the future, and their failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on the ability of the China JV to effectively manufacture and sell products. Even to the extent the China JV is successful in manufacturing and selling products, aside from a royalty fee based on a mid-single digits percentage of the net sales revenue of the products manufactured and sold by the China JV, we will only benefit from any profit in the China JV to the extent of our minority equity ownership therein. As a result of our 20% ownership stake and the terms of the China JV agreements, we will not have control of the operations of the China JV, which will be governed by a five-member board of directors to which we may only designate one director in our sole discretion, with the majority of such directors being designated by our Joint Venture Partners. Accordingly, if our relationship with our Joint Venture Partners deteriorates, or if our strategic objectives diverge from that of our Joint Venture Partners, our success in the joint venture and our business and operations may be materially adversely affected. Further, we may be unable to prevent misconduct or other violations of applicable laws by the China JV, and we have no control over the conduct or actions of our Joint Venture Partners. Moreover, the China JV may not follow the same requirements regarding compliance, internal controls (including internal control over financial reporting) that we follow. To the extent another party makes decisions that negatively impact the joint venture or internal control issues arise within the joint venture, we may have to take responsive or other actions or we may be subject to penalties, fines or other related actions for these activities Finally, because the China JV will only manufacture and sell products in the JV Territory, we may still need to expend resources on the manufacturing and sale of our product in other markets in Asia. 16 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2019, the Company had not transferred the patented technologies pursuant to the Technology License Agreement. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. The industries in which we operate, including, in particular, the medical device industry, are characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we might be the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. Regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of our management and operating personnel from other business issues. A successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. Because competition in our industry is intense, competitors may infringe or otherwise violate our issued patents, patents of our licensors or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their patents. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patents claims narrowly, or refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. We may also elect to enter into license agreements in order to settle patent infringement claims or to resolve disputes prior to litigation, and any such license agreements may require us to pay royalties and other fees that could be significant. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. Some of the patents and patent applications in the intellectual property portfolio are not within our complete control, which could reduce the value of such patents. Some of our U.S. patents (which have associated international patents and applications) are co-owned by UC Berkeley. UC Berkeley has exclusively licensed its rights under many of these patents to us, but we do not have an exclusive license to UC Berkeleys rights under three of these patents. UC Berkeley has licensed their U.S. rights in two of these three co-owned patents to an unrelated third-party. The third patent is a continuation-in-part of a patent that UC Berkeley has licensed to us. Under the terms of the relevant license agreement between us and UC Berkeley, we have exclusive rights to any claims that are fully supported by the specification in the parent application. However, any claims that are not based on the specification in the parent application are co-owned by UC Berkeley and us, and UC Berkeleys rights in respect of such claims are not exclusively licensed to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain a license to UC Berkeleys rights in any such claims on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and UC Berkeley may choose to license its rights to third parties instead of us. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of certain assets from Equipois, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois with respect to certain patents and patent applications under an in-license of intellectual property from a third-party and subject to an out-license of that intellectual property to an unrelated third-party for use in a particular field. We do not have complete control over the prosecution of these patent applications. As well, the license of intellectual property rights under these patents to third parties could reduce the value of our patent portfolio and limit any income or license fees that we might receive if we were to attempt to transfer or license our rights under any of our co-owned or licensed patents. If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license intellectual property rights from third-parties or otherwise experience disruptions to our business relationships with our licensors, we could lose intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We are a party to two exclusive license agreements and one amendment with UC Berkeley, covering ten patents exclusively licensed to us. In addition, in connection with our acquisition of certain assets from Equipois, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois with respect to certain patents and patent applications under an in-license of intellectual property from a third-party and subject to an out-license of that intellectual property to an unrelated third-party for use in a particular field. We may also need to obtain additional licenses from others to advance our research and development activities or allow the commercialization of 17 Table of Contents our devices or any other devices we may identify and pursue. Our license agreements with UC Berkeley and the rights and obligations that we assumed in connection with the Equipois acquisition impose various development, diligence, commercialization, and other obligations on us, and we any future license agreements may impose similar or other obligations on us. For example, under our license agreements with UC Berkeley we are required to submit a commercialization plan with performance milestones and progress report to UC Berkeley, and must satisfy specified minimum annual royalty payment obligations. In spite of our efforts, our licensors might conclude that we have materially breached our obligations under such license agreements and might therefore terminate the license agreements, thereby removing or limiting our ability to develop and commercialize products and technology covered by these license agreements. If our license agreements with UC Berkeley is terminated, or if our agreements granting us intellectual property rights in connection with the Equipois acquisition or any future agreements granting us material intellectual property rights are terminated or impeded in a material way, competitors or other third parties would have the freedom to seek regulatory approval of, and to market, products that may be identical or functionally similar to our devices and we may be required to cease our development and commercialization of such devices. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, disputes may arise between us and our counterparties regarding intellectual property subject to a licensing agreement, including: the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues; the extent to which our devices, technology and processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement; the sublicensing of patent and other rights under our collaborative research and development relationships; our diligence obligations under the license agreement and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations; the ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners; and the priority of invention of patented or patentable technology. In addition, certain provisions in our license agreement with UC Berkeley may be susceptible to multiple interpretations. The resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the agreement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, if disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected devices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Patent terms may be inadequate to protect our competitive position on our devices for an adequate amount of time. Patents have a limited lifespan. In the United States, if all maintenance fees are timely paid, the natural expiration of a patent is generally 20 years from its earliest U.S. non-provisional filing date. Various extensions may be available, but the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Even if patents covering our devices are obtained, once the patent life has expired, we may be open to competition from competitive products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new devices, patents protecting such devices might expire before or shortly after such devices are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for our medical device products, or if clearances or approvals for future products or modifications to existing products are delayed or not issued, our commercial operations would be harmed. Our EksoGT, EksoNR and EksoUE products are medical devices and are regulated by the FDA, the European Union and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, and market surveillance of our medical products. Our failure to comply with these complex laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows In the United States, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, new claim for or significant modification to an existing product, we must first receive either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or approval of a premarket approval or PMA application from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Both the PMA and the 510(k) clearance process can be expensive, 18 Table of Contents lengthy and uncertain. The FDAs 510(k) clearance process may take anywhere from several months to over a year. The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. In addition, PMA generally requires the performance of one or more clinical trials. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the medical device review process. Despite the time, effort and cost, we cannot assure you that any particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could harm our business. Failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional development, standardized testing, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could harm our business. The FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a medical device candidate for many reasons, including: a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a device lawfully marketed either as a grandfathered device or one that was cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification process; a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be in conformance with applicable standards and regulations; FDA or other regulatory officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials or other product testing date to be sufficient; other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve our processes or facilities or those of any of our third-party manufacturers, thereby restricting export; or the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change clearance or approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even after regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, a cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to extensive regulatory requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion for the product. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including: restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; adverse inspectional observations (Form 483), warning letters, non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations; civil or criminal penalties or fines; injunctions; product seizures, detentions or import bans; voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances or approvals; total or partial suspension of production; imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; refusal to clear or approve pending applications or premarket notifications; and import and export restrictions. If imposed on us, any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Modifications to our EksoNR and our future products may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained On April 4, 2016, we received clearance from the FDA to market our EksoGT robotic exoskeleton for use in the treatment of individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke, individuals with SCI at levels T4 to L5, and individuals with SCI at levels of T3 to C7 (ASIA D), in accordance with the devices labeling. On July 19, 2016, we received clearance from the FDA to expand/clarify the indications and labeling to expressly include individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke who have upper extremity function of at least four-fifths in only one arm. Our prior cleared indications for use statement required that individuals with hemiplegia due to stroke have upper extremity function of at least four-fifths in both arms. An element of our strategy is to continue to upgrade our robotic exoskeleton platform to incorporate new software and hardware 19 Table of Contents enhancements. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device, including our EksoGT, that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance based on the final guidance document issued by the FDA in October 2017 addressing when to submit a new 510(k) application due to modifications to 510(k)-cleared devices and a separate guidance document on when to submit a new 510(k) application due to software changes to 510(k)-cleared devices. Although largely aligned with the FDAs longstanding guidance document issued in 1997, the 2017 guidance includes targeted changes intended to provide additional clarity on when a new 510(k) application is needed. The FDA may review our determinations regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary, and may not agree with our decisions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations for any future changes, or prior changes to previously marketed products, as the case may be, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified products until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. We may introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. The products may be subject to various regulatory processes, and we may need to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. If a potential purchaser of our products believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. As a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. The manufacture of our products is subject to extensive post-market regulation by the FDA. Our failure to meet strict regulatory requirements could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. We are required to comply with the FDAs Quality System Regulation, or QSR, which is a complex regulatory scheme that covers the procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, process controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, handling, storage, distribution, installation, servicing and shipping of our marketed products. These regulatory requirements may significantly increase our production costs and may even prevent us from making our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may need to review the process before it may be used. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. Federal, state and non-U.S. regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes. The complexity, timeframes and costs associated with obtaining marketing clearances are unknown. Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, these changes might have on our business, the impact could be material. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or off-label uses. Any cleared or approved product may be promoted only for its indicated uses and our promotional materials must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. We believe that the specific use for which our products are marketed fall within the scope of the indications for use that have been cleared by the FDA. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. Failure to comply with anti-kickback and fraud regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in our business operations. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers for our products, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by federal, state and foreign governments, which could significantly impact our business. These laws may constrain the business and financial arrangements and relationships through which we conduct our operations, including how we research, market, sell and distribute any product for which we have obtained regulatory approval, or for which we obtain regulatory approval in the future. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include, but are not limited to, those that prohibit, among other things, 20 Table of Contents (i) filing, or causing to be filed, false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws, (ii) payment, solicitation or receipt of unlawful inducements, directly or indirectly, for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and (iii) health care service providers from seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark law. Many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state Medicaid and other government funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. In addition, we may be subject to federal and state data privacy laws that govern the privacy and security of health information in specified circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. We are subject to the risk that a person or government could allege we have engaged in fraud or other misconduct, even if none occurred. It is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us now or in the future, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from governmental health care programs, additional integrity oversight and reporting obligations, contractual damages, reputational harm and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Changes in law or regulation could make it more difficult and costly for us to manufacture, market and distribute our products or obtain or maintain regulatory approval of new or modified products. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Elections could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the health care industry. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market, and distribute existing products. Significant delays in receiving clearance or approval, or the failure to receive clearance or approval, for any new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. Healthcare changes in the U.S. and other countries, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, could have a negative impact on our future operating results. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, in 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or ACA, was enacted into law. The legislation seeks to reform the United States healthcare system. It is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. We expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. The ACA reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, clinical laboratories and pharmaceutical companies, and could otherwise reduce the volume of medical procedures. These factors, in turn, could result in reduced demand for our products and increased downward pricing pressure. It is also possible that the ACA will result in lower reimbursements. While the ACA is intended to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured persons in the United States, the impact of any overall increase in access to healthcare on sales of our products remains uncertain. The current U.S. Presidential administration and the majority party in both Houses of U.S. Congress have indicated their desire to repeal all or certain provisions of the ACA. It is unclear whether, when and how that repeal could be effectuated and what the effect on the healthcare sector might be. A number of lawsuits have been filed challenging various aspects of the ACA and related regulations. In addition, the efficacy of the ACA is the subject of much debate among members of Congress and the public. On December 14, 2018, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas held the individual mandate provisions, and therefore the entirety of ACA, unconstitutional. The impact of the ruling is stayed as it is appealed to the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals. Our business may be materially and adversely impacted in the event that the ACA in part, or in its entirety, is ruled unconstitutional. Furthermore, the uncertainty regarding the constitutionality of the ACA, or specific provisions therein, may negatively affect our business. 21 Table of Contents In December 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act was enacted and signed into law, one part of which repeals the individual mandate introduced by the ACA starting in 2019. The repeal of the individual mandate may have an adverse effect on ACA insurance markets and lead to further legislative changes. In addition, the new law imposes a 2.3% excise tax on medical devices that will apply to U.S. sales of our medical device products. In January 2018, President Trump signed into law a spending package that included a two-year moratorium on the medical device excise tax, which lapsed on December 31, 2019. This tax has had, and may continue to have, a negative impact on our gross margin. There have been other changes to the ACA since the enactment of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and Congress could still consider additional legislation to repeal or replace all or certain elements of the ACA. In addition, other reform legislation has been passed subsequent to the enactment of the ACA, including measures that reduced reimbursement for certain providers and entities under federal health care programs. The outlook for the healthcare sector is unclear, and we are unable to predict the future course of federal or state healthcare legislation and regulations. Changes in the law or regulatory framework that reduce our revenues or increase our costs could also harm our business, financial condition and results of operations and cash flows. Future elections in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation, implementation of Medicare and/or Medicaid, and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the healthcare industry. In the event that legal challenges are successful, or the ACA, is repealed or materially amended, particularly any elements of the ACA that are beneficial to our business or that cause changes in the health insurance industry, including reimbursement and coverage by private payers or, Medicare or Medicaid payers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes may occur, certain proposals, including a repeal or material amendment of the ACA, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, even if the ACA is not amended or repealed, the President and the executive branch of the federal government have a significant impact on the implementation of the provisions of the ACA, and the current or future administrations could make changes impacting the implementation and enforcement of the ACA, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are slow or unable to adapt to any such changes, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our medical products, or malfunction of our medical products, cause or contribute to a death or a serious injury, we will be subject to medical device reporting regulations, which can result in voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDAs medical device reporting or MDR regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. For example, we have been informed of a limited number of events with respect to our EksoNR or EksoGT devices that have been determined to be reportable pursuant to the MDR regulations. In each case, the required MDR report was filed with the FDA. In addition, all manufacturers bringing medical devices to market in the European Economic Area are legally bound to report any incident that led or might have led to the death or serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person, and which the manufacturers device is suspected to have caused, to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. In such case, the manufacturer must file an initial report with the relevant competent authority, which would be followed by further evaluation or investigation of the incident and a final report indicating whether further action is required. The events described above that were reported to the FDA were also reported to the relevant EU regulatory authorities. We are also required to follow detailed recordkeeping requirements for all Company-initiated medical device corrections and removals, and to report such corrective and removal actions to the FDA if they are carried out in response to a risk to health and have not otherwise been reported under the MDR regulations. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Recalls of our products, or agency actions relating to our failure to comply with our reporting or recordkeeping obligations, could harm our reputation and financial results. Discovery of serious safety issues with our products, or a recall of our products either voluntarily or at the direction of the FDA or another governmental authority, could have a negative impact on us. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. In addition, manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. To date, we have initiated only one field action in which we voluntarily accelerated our maintenance schedule based on field usage. When a medical human exoskeleton is used by a paralyzed individual to walk, the individual relies completely on the exoskeleton 22 Table of Contents to hold them upright. There are many exoskeleton components that, if they were to fail catastrophically, could cause a fall resulting in severe injury or death of the patient. Certain of our competitors have reported injuries caused by the malfunction of human exoskeleton devices (in at least one case to the FDA). Injuries caused by the malfunction or misuse of human exoskeleton devices, even where such malfunction or misuse occurs with respect to one of our competitors products, could cause regulatory agencies to implement more conservative regulations on the medical human exoskeleton industry, which could significantly increase our operating costs. Similarly, when an industrial exoskeleton is used by a healthy individual - for example to operate heavy machinery overhead - malfunction of the device at an inopportune moment could result in severe injury or death of the person using the device. Such occurrences could result in regulatory action on the part of OSHA or its foreign counterparts. Any future recalls of any of our products could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. In addition, personal injuries relating to the use of our products could also result in product liability claims being brought against us. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in substantial damages, be costly and time-consuming to defend and could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. We could be exposed to significant liability claims if we are unable to obtain insurance at adequate levels or otherwise protect ourselves against potential product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices and industrial products entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. A successful product liability claim or product recall could inhibit or prevent the successful commercialization of our products, cause a significant financial burden on us, or both, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Warranty claims or any other service and repairs provided by us at our expense could have a material adverse effect on our business. Sales of our EksoNR and EksoGT generally include a one-year warranty for parts and services in the U.S. and a two-year warranty in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. We also generally provide customers with an option to purchase an extended warranty for up to an additional three years. The costs associated with such warranties, including any warranty-related legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. As we enhance our product and in an effort to build our brand and drive adoption, we have elected to incur increased service expenses related to an accelerated maintenance program, field corrections and the implementation of technological improvements developed subsequent to many of our units being placed into service, sometimes outside of its warranty and contractual obligations. Continuation of these activities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. If use of our products by healthcare providers and related facilities becomes dependent on their ability to obtain reimbursement for use of our products from third-party payers, failure to both obtain and maintain adequate levels of third-party reimbursement for such services would have a material adverse effect on our business. Healthcare providers and related facilities are generally reimbursed for their services through payment systems managed by various third-party payers, including governmental agencies worldwide, private insurance companies, and managed care organizations. The manner and level of reimbursement in any given case may depend on the site of care, the procedure(s) performed, the final patient diagnosis, the device(s) utilized, available budget, or a combination of these factors, and coverage and payment levels are determined at each payers discretion. Reimbursement to healthcare providers and related facilities for rehabilitation services are not dependent on the use of our products. However, to the extent that the adoption of our product by our customers becomes dependent in the future on their ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for treatments provided using our product from third-party payers, the coverage policies and reimbursement levels of these third-party payers may impact the decisions of healthcare providers and facilities regarding which medical products they purchase and the prices they are willing to pay for those products and reimbursement rates could also affect the acceptance rates of new technologies. We have no direct control over payer decision-making with respect to coverage and payment levels for our medical device products. Additionally, we expect many payers to continue to explore cost-containment strategies (e.g., comparative and cost-effectiveness analyses, so-called pay-for-performance programs implemented by various public and private payers, and expansion of payment 23 Table of Contents bundling schemes such as Accountable Care Organizations, and other such methods that shift medical cost risk to providers). Should the use of our products be a factor in reimbursements in the future, these considerations may potentially impact coverage and/or payment levels for our products. In addition to the ACA, which is intended to reduce the cost of healthcare over time, initiatives sponsored by government agencies, legislative bodies and the private sector to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation and competitive pricing, are ongoing in markets where we do business. Pricing pressure has also increased in these markets due to continued consolidation among health care providers, trends toward managed care, the shift towards governments becoming the primary payers of health care expenses and laws and regulations relating to reimbursement and pricing generally. Should the use of our products be a factor in reimbursements in the future, reductions in reimbursement levels or coverage or other cost-containment measures could adversely affect customer demand or the price customers may be willing to pay for our products and could result in decreased revenue. Clinical studies regarding our products may not provide sufficient data to either cause third-party payers to approve reimbursement or to make human exoskeletons a standard of care. Our business plan relies on broad adoption of human exoskeletons to provide neuro-rehabilitation in the form of gait training to individuals who have suffered a neurological injury or disorder. Although use of human exoskeletons in neuro-rehabilitation is new, use of robotic devices to provide gait training has been going on for over a decade and the clinical studies relating to such devices have had both positive and negative outcomes. In the past, some in the rehabilitation community have questioned the use of robotic devices based on the data from some of these studies. Although we believe that human exoskeletons will outperform such robotic equipment, this has not been proven or broadly accepted by the rehabilitation community. Furthermore, it may prove impossible to prove an advantage in a timely manner, or at all, which could prevent broad adoption of our products. Part of our business plan relies on broad adoption of our robotic exoskeleton to provide early mobilization of individuals who have been immobilized by an injury, disease, or other condition. Although the health benefits of other methods of early mobilization have been demonstrated in clinical studies in fields such as stroke, those studies did not test early mobilization with human exoskeletons directly. To date, our device has been the subject of several clinical trials, some of which have been partially sponsored by us, but most of which are non-Ekso-sponsored independent studies conducted by rehabilitation institutions. Data from these studies was provided to the FDA as part of our 510(k) application submissions. In addition, there are several ongoing independent studies to investigate additional indications for use for our device, as well as to evaluate clinical and non-clinical outcomes of using the Ekso device, and we are currently in the planning stage for several Company-led studies. Further, a Company-sponsored clinical trial, entitled WISE (Walking Improvement for SCI with Exoskeletons), is being conducted to evaluate improvement in independent gait speeds of SCI patients undergoing rehabilitation with the EksoNR and EksoGT and to compare it to both conventional therapy and a control group. If current and future clinical trials do not provide sufficient data to support our belief that early mobilization through the use of exoskeletons improves health outcomes, or such studies actually contradict that belief, market acceptance of the human exoskeletons could fail to increase or could decrease and our business could be harmed. Any studies that we initiate, whether to drive market adoption and support commercialization, or to support additional product submissions or new claims, will be expensive and time consuming, which could harm our financial results. Initiating and completing clinical trials necessary to drive market adoption and support commercialization, or to support additional product submissions or new claims, is time consuming and expensive. Conducting successful clinical studies requires the enrollment of large numbers of patients, and suitable patients may be difficult to identify and recruit. Delays in patient enrollment or failure of patients to continue to participate in a clinical trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in future clearances or approvals of our products or result in the failure of the clinical trial. Such increased costs and delays or failures could adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. In addition, all clinical trial activities that we undertake are subject to extensive regulation and review by numerous governmental authorities both in the United States and abroad. Clinical trials intended to support a 510(k) applications or PMA must be conducted in compliance with the FDAs Good Clinical Practice regulations and similar requirements in foreign jurisdictions. Sufficient and appropriate clinical protocols to demonstrate safety and efficacy may be required and we may not adequately develop such protocols to support future clearances and approvals. Compliance with these regulations is costly, and any failure to do so could delay or prevent us from using data obtained from such activities to support our claims that a product is safe and effective. The results of clinical trials may not support new product submissions or claims or may result in the discovery of adverse side effects. 24 Table of Contents Despite considerable time and expense invested in clinical trials, the FDA may not consider any data that we obtain adequate to demonstrate safety and efficacy for future submissions. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our intended claims or demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for the proposed indicated uses, which could cause us to abandon a product candidate and may delay development of others. Moreover, the results of early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and any product we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials. Any delay or termination of our clinical trials or studies could delay the filing of associated product submissions and, ultimately, our ability to commercialize products requiring submission of clinical data or relying on clinical data for market acceptance. It is also possible that patients enrolled in a clinical trial will experience adverse side effects that are not currently part of the product candidates safety profile, which could cause us to delay or abandon development of such product Security breaches could expose us to liability and damage our reputation and business. We process, store, and transmit sensitive data, including those provided by employees, customers and vendors. It is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems. Any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information handled by us or our service providers may jeopardize the security or integrity of information in our computer systems and networks or those of our employees, customers or vendors and cause significant interruptions and/or errors in our products and services. The systems and processes that we have developed that are designed to protect information processed, stored or transmitted on our systems and prevent data loss and other security breaches cannot provide absolute security. In addition, we may not successfully implement remediation plans to address all potential exposures. It is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. Failure to prevent or mitigate data loss or other security breaches could expose us or our employees, customers or vendors to a risk of loss or misuse of such information, cause employees, customers or vendors to lose confidence in our data protection measures, damage our reputation, adversely affect our operating results or result in litigation or potential liability for us. While we maintain insurance coverage, we do not maintain cyber insurance and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses associated with a cyber-attack or security breach. Our business may suffer if we are not able to attract and retain key employees. Our success depends on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. In addition, as we introduce new products or services, we will need to hire additional personnel. Currently, competition for personnel with the required knowledge, skill and experiences is intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area, where we are headquartered, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain such personnel. The inability to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our management and sales teams may adversely affect our operations. Over the last two years, we have experienced turnover in our senior management and sales teams, including most recently, Christian Babini, who resigned as VP of Sales, Americas in January 2019. During 2018, Russell DeLonzor also resigned as Chief Operating Officer in December 2018. Maximilian Scheder-Bieschin, our former Chief Financial Officer, retired as Chief Financial Officer as of August 1, 2018 and transitioned to being a consultant until December 31, 2018, and effective August 13, 2018, John F. Glenn was appointed as our new Chief Financial Officer. As well, Gregory Davault, previously our Chief Marketing Officer, resigned effective as of May 15, 2018. While we expect to engage in an orderly transition process as we integrate newly appointed officers and managers, we face a variety of risks and uncertainties relating to management transition and execution of our sales strategy, including diversion of management attention from business concerns, failure to retain other key personnel, loss of institutional knowledge, loss of sales prospects and inability to replenish our sales team in a manner needed to execute our sales strategy. These risks and uncertainties could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations, stock price and research and development of our products. We will experience long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter and may result in volatility in our stock price. The EksoNR has a lengthy sale and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital item and generally requires the approval of 25 Table of Contents senior management at purchasing institutions, which may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Other factors that may cause our operating results to fluctuate include: general economic uncertainties and political concerns; the introduction of new products or product lines; product modifications; the level of market acceptance of new products; the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement by third-party payers of services provided using our products; the timing and amount of research and development and other expenditures; timing of the receipt of orders from, and product shipments to, distributors and customers; changes in the distribution arrangements for our products; manufacturing or supply delays; the time needed to educate and train additional sales and manufacturing personnel; and costs associated with defending our intellectual property. In addition to these factors, expenditures are based, in part, on expected future sales. If sales levels in a particular quarter do not meet expectations, we may be unable to adjust operating expenses quickly enough to compensate for the shortfall of sales, and our results of operations may be adversely affected. The China JV exposes us to certain risks with respect to international trade, enforcement of intellectual property rights and political risks. As a result of our involvement in the China JV, we are subject to a number of risks associated with conducting operations in China and other international markets, including: unexpected changes in regulatory requirements that may limit our ability to manufacture, export the products of these companies or sell into particular jurisdictions or impose multiple conflicting tax laws and regulations; the imposition of tariffs, trade barriers and duties; difficulties in managing geographically disparate operations; difficulties in enforcing agreements through non-U.S. legal systems, including the JV Agreement, which is governed under Chinese law; political and economic instability, civil unrest or war; terrorist activities that impact international commerce; outbreaks of a pandemic disease, such as COVID-19 (coronavirus); difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights, particularly in China and other countries where the laws and practices do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws and practices of the United States; changing laws and policies affecting economic liberalization, foreign investment, currency convertibility or exchange rates, taxation or employment; and nationalization of foreignowned assets, including intellectual property. International sales of our products account for a portion of our revenues, which will expose us to certain operating risks, and we intend to rely on international joint venture, particularly the China JV, for manufacturing and sales of our products in China and certain other Asian countries. If we are unable to successfully manage our international activities, our net sales, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Our business currently depends in part on our activities in the EMEA, APAC, and other foreign markets. We also recently entered into the China JV and intend to rely on the China JV to manufacture and sell our products in the JV Territory. Our international activities are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad. These include: 26 Table of Contents failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations; challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; challenges caused by differences in legal regulations, markets, and customer preferences, which may limit our ability to adapt our products or succeed in other regions; multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign laws, tax schemes, international import and export legislation, trading and investment policies, exchange controls and tariff and other trade barriers; foreign tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and foreign currency translation adjustments; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned outside the United States; imposition of public sector controls; differing payer reimbursement regimes, governmental payers or patient self-pay systems and price controls; political, economic and social instability; and restrictions on the export or import of technology. Some of the countries in which we operate and seek to expand are in emerging markets where legal systems may be less developed or familiar to us. Other jurisdictions in which we conduct business may establish legal and regulatory regimes that differ materially from United States laws and regulations. Compliance with diverse legal requirements is costly and time-consuming and requires significant resources. Violations of one or more of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines or monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. In connection with our entry into the China JV for the manufacturing, sales and marketing of our products into China, we may be exposed to the additional risks of doing business in China. Our success in the Chinese markets may be adversely affected by Chinas continuously evolving laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, currency controls, anti-corruption, export control and environmental laws and regulations, indigenous innovation, and intellectual property rights and enforcement of those rights. Enforcement of existing laws or agreements may be inconsistent. In addition, changes in the political environment, governmental policies or United States-China relations could result in revisions to laws or regulations or their interpretation and enforcement, exposure of our proprietary intellectual property, increased taxation, restrictions on imports, import duties or currency revaluations, which could have an adverse effect on our business plans and operating results. In addition to the foregoing, our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of a health epidemic or widespread outbreak of a contagious disease, including the recent outbreak of the respiratory illness caused by a coronavirus strain (COVID-19) first identified in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, or any other outbreak of contagious diseases, and other adverse public health developments. These effects could include disruptions or restrictions on our employees ability to travel, as well as temporary closures of our facilities or the facilities of our customers, suppliers, or other vendors in our supply chain, including those associated with our China JV. The significance of the impact of the COVID-19 outbreak to us remains unclear at this time; however, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Interruptions in production, in particular at any of the manufacturing facilities used to create our products, could increase our costs and reduce our sales. U.S. regulatory review may result in delays, restrictions or other adverse impacts on the operations of our China JV. In connection with the China JV, the Joint Venture Partners and their affiliates agreed to purchase an aggregate of 3,067,485 shares of our common stock at a price per share equal to $1.63, for aggregate proceeds to us of $5.0 million (the "JV Share Purchase"). In February 2019, the Department of Defense, or the DOD, inquired about certain aspects of the China JV, including about our products classification under U.S. export control regimes and whether the China JV parties intended to notify the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, of the China JV. In July 2019, the Treasury Department - as the chair of CFIUS - made similar inquiries about the China JV and the JV Share Purchase. 27 Table of Contents CFIUS has broad discretion to assert jurisdiction to review foreign investments in U.S. businesses, and to restrict the ownership thereof and the transfer of technology therefrom to foreign investors, including where CFIUS believes that such foreign investment may present potential national security risks to the United States. CFIUS may take actions if CFIUS determines that the China JV and related investment are covered by its regulations and identifies any national security concerns with the transactions. CFIUSs actions could include the imposition of measures designed to mitigate and resolve any such national security concerns. Such mitigation measures may include, but not necessarily be limited to, a requirement that we obtain prior approval from the U.S. government to transfer certain technology related to our products, which would present a risk to the operations of the China JV. If CFIUS were to determine that it cannot mitigate any identified national security concerns, CFIUS could recommend that the President of the United States compel the China JV partners to abandon or unwind the China JV or the JV Share Purchase. In December 2019, the Company and the China JV submitted a joint voluntary notice to CFIUS to review the transaction. CFIUS has determined that the establishment of the China JV is subject to CFIUSs jurisdiction, and pending completion of its investigation, CFIUS imposed interim measures that temporarily suspend the Companys contributions to the China JV and other integration activities. The Company continues to engage with CFIUS to address its concerns, and expects CFIUS review and investigation, as well as its assessment of whether its concerns can be mitigated, to end by April 13, 2020. In addition to CFIUS, and notwithstanding our views regarding the classifications of our products under U.S. export control regimes, the Department of Commerce has authority in certain circumstances under the Export Control Reform Act and the Export Administration Regulations to inform parties that a license is required to export items or technology to certain destinations, for reasons that include risk that the technology may be transferred for proscribed end uses. In the event the U.S. government exercises such authority over our products, it may delay and ultimately restrict our ability to transfer manufacturing technology to China JV. Any of the foregoing actions by the U.S. government could materially and adversely affect our China JV, and therefore, our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, then our international operations may not be successful, which could adversely affect our net sales, results of operations and financial condition and limit our growth. The disruption or loss of relationships with vendors, suppliers and distributors for the components used in the manufacturing of our products or for sale and marketing of our products in certain territories could materially adversely affect our business. Our ability to manufacture and market our products successfully is dependent on relationships with third-party vendors, suppliers and distributors. Although most of the raw materials that we use to manufacture our products are readily available from a number of suppliers, we generally procure raw materials and components through purchase orders, with no guaranteed supply arrangements. Our inability to obtain sufficient quantities of various components, if and as required in the future, may subject us to: delays in delivery or shortages in components that could interrupt and delay manufacturing and result in cancellations of orders for our products; increased component prices and supply delays as we establish alternative suppliers; inability to develop alternative sources for product components; required modifications of our products, which may cause delays in product shipments, increased manufacturing costs, and increased product prices; and increased inventory costs as we hold more inventory than we otherwise might in order to avoid problems from shortages or discontinuance, which may result in write-offs if we are unable to use all such products in the future. In addition, failure of any one suppliers components could result in a product recall, which could materially adversely affect our business, operations and cash flows. We are beginning the process of establishing a JV to streamline the supply chain for released products in China. If we are unable to build the local supply chains, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In non-German-speaking European countries, other EMEA countries and Central and South American countries, we rely on independent distributors to distribute and assist us with the marketing and sale of our products. These distributors are our principal customers, and revenue growth will depend in large part on our success in establishing and maintaining this sales and distribution channel. However, there can be no assurance that our distributors will be successful in selling our products to end users, or will focus adequate resources on selling them, and they may not continue to purchase or market our products for a number of reasons. 28 Table of Contents We may be unable to manage our growth and entry into new business areas. If demand for our exoskeleton products exceeds our capacity to provide services timely and efficiently, then we may need to expand our operations accordingly and swiftly. Our management believes that establishing industry leadership will require us to: test, introduce and develop new products and services including enhancements to our existing products; develop and expand the breadth of products and services offered; develop and expand our market presence through relationships with third parties; and generate satisfactory revenues from such expanded products or services to fund the foregoing requirements while obtaining and maintaining satisfactory profit margins. To be able to expand our operations in a cost-effective or timely manner and increase the overall market acceptance of our products and services in this manner, we will need additional capital and technical and managerial human resources. These additional resources may not be available to us. Our failure to timely and efficiently expand our operations and successfully achieve the four requirements listed above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The acquisition of other companies, businesses, or technologies could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We may selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, any of which could be material to our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future acquisitions could divert managements time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization and integrating each companys accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management. The anticipated benefits of future acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. We may incur losses associated with currency fluctuations and may not be able to effectively hedge our exposure Our operating results are subject to volatility due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our primary exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relates to revenue and operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar adversely affects our foreign currency-denominated revenue. In the past, we have not hedged our exposures to foreign currencies or entered into any other derivative instruments and we have no current plans to do so. See