Item 2.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2024 (this "Quarterly Report"), the Company, we, its and our refers to Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023, which is incorporated herein by reference (the Annual Report). This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements other than statements of historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report, including statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) the manufacturing of our products and strengthening of our supply chain, and potential opportunities for strategic partnerships, (iii) beliefs regarding the regulatory path for our products, including potential approvals required and timing of approvals, (iv) statements regarding the financial and operational impacts on our business following the completion of the integration of our acquisition from Parker Hannifin Corporation of certain assets related to Parker Hannifin Corporation's human motion control business, and software applications, support services and cloud environments related to such business in December 2022 (the "HMC Acquisition"), (v) our future financial performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and analysis of financial condition by management or in our results of operations, (vi) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities, including for exoskeleton technology and our exoskeleton products, and for strategic partnerships, (vii) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, (viii) the actions we will take in seeking reimbursement from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") and the success of such actions, (ix) the timing and amounts of CMS reimbursement, (x) our ability to grow and expand our EksoHealth segment as we work to grow revenue in light of Medicare reimbursement from CMS of the Ekso Indego Personal, (xi) our ability to obtain insurance coverage beyond CMS, (xii) our ability to obtain additional indications for products that cover the Ekso Indego Personal, (xiii) our ability to obtain CE certificates registered by Ekso Bionics, Inc. for our Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal devices, (xiv) the impact and effects of the other risk factors on our business, results of operations or prospects, and (xv) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i) through (xiv) above. The words may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and similar expressions (including the negative of any of the foregoing) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors included in our Annual Report, as updated and supplemented in this Quarterly Report under the heading Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors, could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking information: our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund operations and to develop or enhance our technology; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations; our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our medical devices; our ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis and that completed clinical trials will be sufficient to support commercialization of our products; the anticipated timing, cost and progress of the development and commercialization of new products or services, and improvements to our existing products, and related impacts on our profitability and cash position; our ability to effectively market and sell our products and expand our business, both in unit sales and product diversification; our ability to achieve broad customer adoption of our products and services; existing or increased competition; our estimates regarding our current or future addressable market; our ability to sell additional units, and, once sold, recognize the expected margins and revenue, using the reimbursement code for our Ekso Indego Personal device with CMS; our ability to obtain reimbursement from CMS in a timely manner and at the expected reimbursement levels; our ability to obtain insurance coverage beyond CMS; our ability to obtain additional indications of use for our devices; our ability to obtain CE certificates registered by Ekso Bionics, Inc. for our Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal devices; rapid changes in technological solutions available to our markets; volatility with our business, including long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter; changes to our domestic or international sales and operations; our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for our intellectual property; the scope, validity and enforceability of our and third-party intellectual property rights; significant government regulation of medical devices and the healthcare industry; our ability to receive regulatory clearance from certain government authorities, including any conditions, limitations or restrictions placed on such approvals; our customers ability to get third-party reimbursement for our products and services associated with them and our ability to manage the complex and lengthy reimbursement process; the potential for our products to be subject to voluntary or involuntary recall; our product liability insurance may not adequately cover potential claims; warrant claims and our accelerated maintenance program results in additional operating costs to us; our failure to implement our business plan or strategies, including our expectation that CMS reimbursements will be a significant source of revenue; our ability to successfully consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms and to integrate any such acquisitions; our early termination of leases, difficulty filling vacancies or negotiating improved lease terms; our ability to retain or attract key employees; 31 Table of Contents scope, scale and duration of the impact of outbreaks of global health events; stock volatility or illiquidity; our ability to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting; the impacts of foreign currency price fluctuations; and overall economic and market conditions. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore, such statements and information included in this Quarterly Report may not prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such statements and information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results or conditions described in such statements and information or that our objectives and plans will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Our Business We design, develop, and market exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance, and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple end markets and can be utilized both by persons with physical disabilities or impairments and on able-bodies. The majority of our sales are generated in our Enterprise Health business line within our EksoHealth Segment, which includes the sales of products and services related to neurorehabilitation in clinical settings. We also provide products and service from our Personal Health business line to individual users. In addition to our current products and services, we continue to explore business development initiatives to fuel growth and long-term value in our existing segments. EksoHealth Our Enterprise Health business line focuses on sales of our EksoNR and Ekso Indego Therapy products to customers, including inpatient rehabilitation hospitals and clinics as well as some outpatient rehabilitation clinics. Our marketing to these customers involves the education of clinical and executive stakeholders on the economic and clinical value of our products and services. In tandem, we continue to leverage our EksoNR and Ekso Indego customer base to educate and mentor strategic target centers that specialize in stroke, ABI and SCI rehabilitation in specific geographies. We believe that our Enterprise Health business line will be a source of stable sales growth. Our Personal Health business line is focused on marketing and sales of our Ekso Indego Personal product to individual users. These individual users are currently served by the Veterans Administration, which provides our products to qualified veterans for individual use, individuals who are covered under workers compensation insurance, and private individuals who pay out of pocket. In April 2024, CMS approved a final payment level of $91,031.93 for Medicare reimbursement of the Ekso Indego Personal, which took effect on April 1, 2024. We intend to seek insurance coverage beyond CMS and to seek additional indications of use for our products. We believe that our Personal Health business line has the potential for a higher growth rate than our Enterprise Health business line. 32 Table of Contents EksoWorks Sales of products to able-bodied individuals for use in industrial or work-related use are represented by our EksoWorks segment. Our only active product within our EksoWorks segment is EVO. Our primary end market for our EksoWorks segment is comprised of commercial enterprises that are focused on solving ergonomic challenges for their workers. These challenges include injury prevention, fatigue reduction, and/or improved worker productivity. While EVO is a general-purpose product, we currently target specific vertical markets including aerospace, automotive, general manufacturing, and certain construction trades. Economic and Industry Trends Our revenue is highly dependent on market demand for our exoskeleton products. This market demand is influenced by many factors including the level of awareness of robotic exoskeleton rehabilitation among the rehabilitation clinics with significant stroke, ABI, and SCI populations, the imperatives among construction and manufacturing companies to drive adoption of improved safety and health practices, the levels of reimbursements our customers will be able to receive, as well as conditions relating to overall economic growth and general business activity. Difficult and challenging economic conditions, including an increasingly inflationary environment, could lead to increased price-based competition. In particular, the effects of such increasing price-based competition may have an especially significant impact on certain products that we offer, including the EksoNR and Ekso Indego, which have a lengthy sale and purchase order cycle because they are major capital expenditure items and generally require the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. Furthermore, we do business in the Americas, EMEA and APAC, which results in our business being impacted by demand changes in each of those regions, as well as changes in the strength of the local currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar. With the recent approval of CMS lump sum reimbursement for Indego Personal, we believe we will see increased demand for this device as we are able to more economically serve the larger U.S. patient population suffering from SCI. Specifically, according to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, an estimated 305,000 individuals are currently living with SCI and another 18,000 suffer from new SCI injuries each year. Approximately 57% of individuals with SCI are enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid within 5 years post-injury. With Medicare reimbursement recently approved, we have begun selling products to individuals in this market through Durable Medical Equipment suppliers (DMEs). DMEs typically resell products from DME manufacturers to individual users. DMEs are responsible for the Medicare reimbursement process, which requires a physicians prescription and evidence of medical necessity to be submitted to and approved by Medicare before reimbursement is provided. See Part IItem 1A. Risk Factors, specifically the risk titled Coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, including Medicare or Medicaid, may impact sales of our products in our Annual Report for more information. Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Our most critical accounting estimates include: the standalone selling prices used to allocate the contract consideration to the individual performance obligations in our device sales arrangements, which impacts revenue recognition; the unobservable inputs and assumptions used by management in estimating the fair value of our warrant liabilities, which impacts net income or loss; the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross profit margins; the estimates made regarding the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, which impacts our financial condition; the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our business combination; future warranty costs; accounting for leases; and useful lives assigned to long-lived assets. 33 Table of Contents Standalone Selling Prices Our device sales arrangements contain multiple products and services, most often including the device(s) and service, both of which we have identified as distinct performance obligations. Revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling prices are based on observable prices at which we separately sell the products or services. If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, then we estimate the standalone selling prices considering market conditions and entity-specific factors including, but not limited to, features and functionality of the products and services, geographies, type of customer, and gross margin targets. Changes in the relative standalone selling price between devices and service can have an impact on how transaction prices are allocated between revenue and deferred revenue. Warrant Liabilities We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to value our warrant liabilities at each reporting period, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, most notably the estimated volatility of our common stock over the expected term. We use our historical common stock volatility to estimate expected volatility over the warrant terms. Changes in these assumptions could have potential material impacts on the estimated fair value of warrant liabilities. Inventory Valuation Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using the standard cost method which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. The cost basis of our inventory is reduced for any products that are considered excessive or obsolete based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Deferred Tax Asset We estimate a valuation allowance in consideration of the realizability of our net deferred tax assets, primarily based on our assessment of the timing, likelihood and amounts of potential future income during which such items become deductible. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we must determine the probability of various possible outcomes and estimate future amounts. Management does not believe it is more likely than not that we will generate future income in a timeframe and amount sufficient to realize our net deferred tax assets. Changes in management's estimate of future income in the timeframe during which the temporary differences and carryforwards comprising our deferred tax assets become deductible could result in a material impact to our financial position including the recognition of a net deferred tax asset. Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in Business Combinations We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of an acquisition to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of projected future cash flows based on expected future growth rates and margins, discount rate used to determine the present value of these cash flows, future changes in technology and royalty for similar brand licenses, and asset lives. Management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Allocation of purchase consideration to identifiable assets and liabilities affects our amortization expense, as acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the useful life, whereas any indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortized. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are included in the consolidated statement of operations. Future Warranty Costs Sales of devices generally include an initial warranty for parts and services for one year in the Americas, two years in EMEA, and one to three years in the APAC region. A liability for the estimated cost of product warranty is established at the time revenue is recognized based on the historical experience of known product failure rates and expected material and labor costs to provide warranty services. Specific additional warranty accruals may be made if unforeseen technical problems arise. Alternatively, if estimates are determined to be greater than the actual amounts necessary, a portion of the liability may be reversed in future periods. At the end of each reporting period, we estimate our future warranty costs related to products sold during the period. This liability represents our best estimate of the costs we will incur to fulfill warranty obligations for products sold during the period. At least annually, we review and update our estimates based on actual warranty claims experience. Accounting for Leases In accordance with ASC 842, Leases, at the inception of an arrangement, we determine whether the arrangement is or contains a lease based on the unique facts and circumstances present, generally based on whether we have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of an identified asset and whether we have the right to direct the use of an identified asset in exchange for consideration, which relates to an asset which we do not own. Operating lease liabilities and their corresponding right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected lease term. The interest rate implicit in lease contracts is typically not readily determinable. As such, we utilize our incremental borrowing rate to determine the present value of the future lease payments, which is a hypothetical rate based on our understanding of what our credit rating would be to borrow and resulting interest we would pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Certain adjustments to the right-of-use asset may be required for items, such as initial direct costs paid or incentives received. Lease payments may be fixed or variable; however, only fixed payments are included in our lease liability. Variable lease payments may include costs such as common area maintenance, utilities, or other costs. Variable lease payments are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred. Useful Lives Assigned to Long-Lived Assets The useful life of an asset represents the period during which the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. We estimate the useful lives of the Companys long-lived assets based on various factors, including the expected period of economic benefit of the asset in use, our intended use of the asset, economic factors such asset obsolescence and technological advances, any limitations imposed by legal, regulatory, or contractual requirements, and industry norms. These assumptions affect the timing and amount of depreciation expense, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Accounting Policies An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note 2. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 34 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 Change % Change Revenue $ 4,129 $ 4,607 $ (478 ) (10 )% Cost of revenue 1,920 2,151 (231 ) (11 )% Gross profit 2,209 2,456 (247 ) (10 )% Gross profit % 53 % 53 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 1,760 2,052 (292 ) (14 )% Research and development 777 1,159 (382 ) (33 )% General and administrative 2,311 2,176 135 6 % Total operating expenses 4,848 5,387 (539 ) (10 )% Loss from operations (2,639 ) (2,931 ) 292 (10 )% Other income (expense), net: Interest expense, net (79 ) (64 ) (15 ) 23 % Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities 14 60 (46 ) (77 )% Unrealized gain (loss) on foreign exchange 634 (433 ) 1,067 (246 )% Other (expense) income, net (2 ) 3 (5 ) (167 )% Total other income (expense), net 567 (434 ) 1,001 (231 )% Net loss $ (2,072 ) $ (3,365 ) $ 1,293 (38 )% Revenue Revenue decreased $0.5 million, or 10%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023. This decrease was comprised of a $0.3 million decrease in EksoHealth revenue and a $0.2 million decrease in EksoWorks revenue. The decrease in EksoHealth revenue was primarily driven by adecrease in the volume of Enterprise Health device shipments and lower volume of EksoNR subscriptions, partially offset by an increase in the volume of Personal Health device shipments. The decrease in EksoWorks revenue was primarily driven by a decrease in the volume of EVO shipments. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit decreased $0.2 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, driven by adecrease in sales in the EksoHealth and EksoWorks segments, partially offset by cost savings in supply chain and a reduction in service costs. Gross margin increased to53.5% for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to a gross margin of 53.3% for the same period of 2023, primarily driven by cost savings in supply chain and a reduction in service costs, partially offset by lower margin sales related to increased volume through distribution. 35 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.3 million, or 14%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023. The decrease was primarily due to lower headcount, discretionary payroll and travel expenses. Research and development expenses decreased $0.4 million, or 33%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to a decrease in the Company's use of product development consultants. General and administrative expenses increased $0.1 million, or 6%, for the three months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to higher consultant costs. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense, net increased 23% for the three months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023. This increase is primarily related to lower interest income from cash deposits, partially offset by lower interest expense related to the Promissory Noteprincipal payments. Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities was de minimis for the three months ended September 30, 2024 as compared to a gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities of $0.1million for the three months ended September 30, 2023, and was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price, stock price volatility, time to maturity and the risk-free interest rate. Unrealized gain on foreign exchange for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was$0.6 million compared to an unrealized loss on foreign exchange of $0.4 million for the same period of 2023. These unrealized gains and losses are primarily the result of foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. The following table presents our results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 (in thousands, except percentages): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 Change % Change Revenue $ 12,835 $ 13,432 $ (597 ) (4 )% Cost of revenue 6,038 6,722 (684 ) (10 )% Gross profit 6,797 6,710 87 1 % Gross profit % 53 % 50 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 5,424 6,489 (1,065 ) (16 )% Research and development 3,029 3,712 (683 ) (18 )% General and administrative 6,574 8,172 (1,598 ) (20 )% Total operating expenses 15,027 18,373 (3,346 ) (18 )% Loss from operations (8,230 ) (11,663 ) 3,433 (29 )% Other income (expense), net: Interest expense, net (210 ) (236 ) 26 (11 )% Loss on modification of warrant (109 ) (109 ) * Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities 440 186 254 137 % Unrealized gain (loss) on foreign exchange 194 (223 ) 417 (187 )% Other expense, net (2 ) (48 ) 46 (96 )% Total other income (expense), net 313 (321 ) 634 (198 )% Net loss $ (7,917 ) $ (11,984 ) $ 4,067 (34 )% (*) Not meaningful Revenue Revenue decreased $0.6 million, or 4%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023. This decrease was comprised of a $0.6 million decrease in EksoHealth revenue, offset by a de minimis increase in EksoWorks revenue. The decrease in EksoHealth revenue was primarily due to a decrease in the volume of Enterprise Health device shipments and lower volume of EksoNR subscriptions, partially offset by an increase in service revenue. The increase in EksoWorks revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the volume of EVO shipments. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit increased $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023, driven by cost savings in supply chain and a reduction in service costs. Gross margin increased to 53% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to a gross margin of 50% for the same period of 2023. The overall increase in gross margin was primarily driven by cost savings in supply chain and a reduction in service costs. 36 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.1 million, or 16%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023. The decrease was primarily due to lower headcount, discretionary payroll and consultant costs. Research and development expenses decreased $0.7 million, or 18%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to a decrease in the Company's use of product development consultants and discretionary payroll costs. General and administrative expenses decreased $1.6 million, or 20%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to lower discretionary payroll, accounting and legal costs. Total Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense, net decreased 11% for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 compared to the same period of 2023. This decrease is primarily related to lower interest expense from the Promissory Noteprincipal payments. Loss on modification of warrants of $0.1 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was due to the reduction of the exercise price of the May 2019 Warrants from $3.52 per share to $1.55 per share, in connection with the January 2024 Offering. There was no comparable amount for the nine months ended September 30, 2023. Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities was $0.4 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 as compared to a gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities of $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, and was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price, stock price volatility, time to maturity and the risk-free interest rate. Unrealized gain on foreign exchange for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was $0.2 million compared to unrealized loss on foreign exchange of $0.2 million for the same period of 2023. These unrealized gains and losses are primarily the result of foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. 37 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources As of September 30, 2024, $8.3 million of cash was held domestically and by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash consisted of bank deposits with third-party financial institutions. As described in Note 9 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report under the caption Notes Payable, net, borrowings under our secured term loan agreement with Banc of California have a requirement of minimum cash on hand equivalent to the current outstanding principal balance, which is due in full August 2026. As of September 30, 2024, $2.0 million of cash must remain as restricted. After considering cash restrictions, effective unrestricted cash as of September 30, 2024 was approximately $6.3 million. On September 30, 2024, we had working capital of $13.6million, compared to working capital of $12.1 million as of December 31, 2023. The increase in working capital was primarily due to a higher accounts receivable balance and a lower accrued liability balance. We have funded our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of equity securities and bank debt. On September 3, 2024, we sold 3,100,000 shares of common stock, a Pre-Funded Warrant to purchase 2,900,000 shares of common stock, Series A Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of common stock, and Series B Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering (the "September 2024 Offering"), which generated net proceeds of approximately $5.0 million after deducting the underwriting discount and commissions and offering expenses paid by the Company. We are using the net proceeds from the September 2024 Offering for general corporate purposes, which may include growth and expansion of our EksoHealth segment as we work to increase our revenue following the establishment of Medicare CMS reimbursement of the Ekso Indego Personal device, research and development activities, selling, general and administrative costs, and pursuing strategic initiatives, which initiatives may include potential synergistic and accretive acquisitions, as well as meeting our other working capital needs. On January 16, 2024, we sold an aggregate of 3.0 million shares of common stock in a registered direct offering (the "January 2024 Offering") at a price of $1.55 per share, which generated net proceeds of approximately $3.9 million after deducting placement agent fees and our estimated offering expenses. In October 2020, we entered into an At The Market Offering Agreement (the "ATM Agreement") with H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC (the "Agent"), under which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock, from time to time, to or through the Agent. Offers and sales of shares of common stock by us through the Agent may be made by any method deemed to be an at the market offering as defined under SEC Rule 415 or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to certain conditions. Such shares may be offered pursuant to the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-272607) (the Registration Statement), which was declared effective by the SEC on June 20, 2023, and a related prospectus supplement filed with the SEC on July 28, 2023 (the ATM Prospectus). Pursuant to the Registration Statement and the ATM Prospectus, shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $5.0 million may be offered and sold, subject to certain SEC rules limiting the amount of shares of the Companys common stock that we may sell under the Registration Statement. In June 2023, we entered into an amendment to the ATM Agreement that removed the requirement that shares of our common stock may not be sold for a price lower than $6.75 per share. During the three months ended September 30, 2024, we did not sell any shares of common stock under the ATM Agreement. During the nine months ended September 30, 2024, we sold 105,049 shares of common stock under the ATM Agreement at an average price of $1.43, for aggregate proceeds of $85,073, net of commission and issuance costs. As of September 30, 2024, we had $4.1 million available for future offerings under the prospectus filed with respect to the ATM Agreement. Cash The following table summarizes the sources and uses of cash (in thousands). Nine months ended September 30, 2024 2023 Net cash used in operating activities $ (8,413 ) $ (10,470 ) Net cash used in investing activities (16 ) (114 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 8,083 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (4 ) Net decrease in cash (346 ) (10,588 ) Cash and restricted cash at beginning of period 8,638 20,525 Cash and restricted cash at end of period $ 8,292 $ 9,937 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities decreased by $2 million, or 20%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023 primarily due to the absence of payments related to the acquisition and integration of HMC and cost savings on supply chain, reduction in service costs and other efficiencies in operating activities. 38 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.1 million, or 86%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to the reduction in manufacturing equipment purchases. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $8.1million for the nine months ended September 30, 2024 was related to net proceeds of $5.0 million from the September 2024 Offering after deducting the underwriting discount and commissions and offering expenses paid by us, net proceeds of $3.9 million from the January 2024 Offering after deducting placement agent fees and offering expenses, proceeds of $0.1 million from shares of common stock sold under the ATM Agreement, partially offset by $0.9 million of principal payments towards the Promissory Note. Material Cash Requirements and Going Concern Our material cash requirements include the following items, some of which are represented in the table of Contractual Obligations and Commitments: (1) employee wages, benefits and incentives, (2) the procurement of raw materials and components to support the manufacturing and sale of our products, (3) expenditures for the ongoing improvement and development of existing and new technologies, (4) debt repayments (for additional information see Note 9 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q), (5) operating lease payments (for additional information see Note 10 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q), and (6) pursuing strategic initiatives. We expect that our operating cash requirements in the near term will continue to exceed cash provided by operations with the significant research and development activities related to the development of the Company's advanced technology and commercialization of such technology into its medical device business and with the service of our Promissory Note with Parker Hannifin. As described in Note 1. Organization: Liquidity and Going Concern of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements, management believes that substantial doubt exists about our ability to meet cash requirements twelve months from the issuance of such financial statements, and such substantial doubt is not alleviated by our plans. The Company does not expect, nor do our historical operating results suggest, that cash flows generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our material cash requirements in the long term. Management expects that the Company's historical reliance on external financing, from both equity and debt financings, will continue to provide the capital necessary to meet its material cash requirements in the long term. Management has not yet determined the form such additional financing may take, but management expects that the most likely forms include one or more of the following: (i) underwritten offerings of shares of our common stock or other offerings of equity and/or equity-linked securities, (ii) sales of shares of our common stock under an "at the market" offering program, (iii) incurring indebtedness with one or more financial institutions, (iv) sale of product line or technology, and (v) the factoring of trade receivables. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of September 30, 2024, and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Payments Due By Period: Less than Total One Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Term loan $ 2,308 $ 161 $ 2,147 $ Promissory note 3,750 1,250 2,500 Facility operating leases 1,083 497 586 Purchase obligations 1,511 1,511 Total $ 8,652 $ 3,419 $ 5,233 $ Refer to Note 14. Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our contractual obligations and lease commitments. 39 Table of Contents