Item 2.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2023 (this "Quarterly Report"), the Company, we, its and our refers to Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, which is incorporated herein by reference (the Annual Report). This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements other than statements of historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report, including statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) the manufacturing of our products and strengthening our supply chain, and potential opportunities for strategic partnerships, (iii) beliefs regarding the regulatory path for our products, including potential approvals required and timing of approvals, (iv) statements regarding the financial and operational impacts on our business following the completion of the HMC Acquisition, (v) our future financial performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and analysis of financial condition by management or in the results of operations included pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, (vi) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities, including for exoskeleton technology and our exoskeleton products, and for strategic partnerships, (vii) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, (viii) the impact and effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and other risk factors on our business, results of operations or prospects, and (ix) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i), through (viii) above. The words may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and similar expressions (including the negative of any of the foregoing) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors included in our Annual Report, as updated and supplemented in this Quarterly Report under the heading Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors, could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking information: our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund operations and to develop or enhance our technology; our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations; our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our medical devices; our ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis and that completed clinical trials will be sufficient to support commercialization of our products; the anticipated timing, cost and progress of the development and commercialization of new products or services, and improvements to our existing products, and related impacts on our profitability and cash position; our ability to effectively market and sell our products and expand our business, both in unit sales and product diversification; our ability to achieve broad customer adoption of our products and services; existing or increased competition; rapid changes in technological solutions available to our markets; volatility with our business, including long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter; changes to our domestic or international sales and operations; our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for our intellectual property; the scope, validity and enforceability of our and third-party intellectual property rights; significant government regulation of medical devices and the healthcare industry; our ability to receive regulatory clearance from certain government authorities, including any conditions, limitations or restrictions placed on such approvals; our customers ability to get third-party reimbursement for our products and services associated with them and our ability to manage the complex and lengthy reimbursement process; the potential for our products to be subject to voluntary or involuntary recall; our product liability insurance may not adequately cover potential claims; warrant claims and our accelerated maintenance program results in additional operating costs to us; our failure to implement our business plan or strategies; our ability to successfully consummate acquisitions on acceptable terms and to integrate any such acquisitions; our early termination of leases, difficulty filling vacancies or negotiating improved lease terms; our ability to retain or attract key employees; 32 Table of Contents scope, scale and duration of the impact of outbreaks of a pandemic disease, such as COVID-19; stock volatility or illiquidity; our ability to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting; the impacts of foreign currency price fluctuations; and overall economic and market conditions. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore, such statements and information included in this Quarterly Report may not prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such statements and information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results or conditions described in such statements and information or that our objectives and plans will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Our Business We design, develop, and market exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple markets and can be utilized both by able-bodied persons and by persons with physical disabilities. We have sold or leased devices that (i) enable individuals with neurological conditions affecting gait, including ABI, SCI and MS, to rehabilitate, and in some cases, to walk again, (ii) assist individuals with a broad range of upper extremity impairments, and (iii) allow industrial workers to perform difficult repetitive work for extended periods. We believe that the commercial opportunity for exoskeleton technology adoption is accelerating as a result of recent advancements in material technologies, electronic and electrical engineering, control technologies, and sensor and software development. Taken individually, many of these advancements have become ubiquitous in peoples everyday lives. We believe that we have learned how to integrate these existing technologies and wrap the result around a human being efficiently, elegantly and safely, supported by an industry leading intellectual property portfolio. We further believe that we can do so across a broad spectrum of applications, from persons with lower limb paralysis to able-bodied users. EksoHealth EksoHealth is our business unit focused on developing and marketing exoskeletons for medical applications. Our leading product in EksoHealth, the EksoNR, is a robotic exoskeleton used to provide physical therapy for patients with lower extremity impairment. EksoNR includes unique features designed specifically to assist physical therapists and other clinicians to teach patients to walk again after suffering a neurological impairment. Typical conditions that can be treated with the assistance of EksoNR include ABIs, such as stroke and traumatic brain injuries, as well as SCIs, MS, and others. The benefits of EksoNR rehabilitation can include earlier mobilization of patients, longer and more intense rehab sessions, and increased quality of sessions as compared to alternative therapies. EksoNR is typically used in clinical settings, most commonly at inpatient rehab facilities and stroke centers. EksoHealth expanded its product offerings to include Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal with the HMC acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2022. The Ekso Indego devices are FDA-cleared lower-limb powered exoskeletons that enable task-specific, overground gait training to patients with weakness or paralysis in their lower extremities. Ekso Indego Personal, a light-weight exoskeleton for safe use in most home and community environments, and Ekso Indego Therapy, an adjustable exoskeleton for patients with spinal cord injury and stroke, address market opportunities across the continuum of care, particularly within outpatient facilities, complementary to those most typically addressed by the EksoNR, expanding Eksos product offering to home and community use markets. 33 Table of Contents EksoWorks EksoWorks is our business unit focused on developing, marketing, and selling exoskeletons and other assistive tools for industrial applications. The target users for these devices are generally able-bodied, and as such the goal of these products is to reduce fatigue for workers. The benefits of fatigue reduction can include reduced rates of injuries, higher productivity, higher worker morale, and lower turnover. Currently, we primarily sell these products directly to companies that deploy them for use in their operations. EVO, our wearable upper body exoskeleton, supersedes the EksoVest as our primary product designed to support the weight of a workers arms and tools, reducing the fatigue associated with working at or above shoulder height for extended periods. In 2022 the EksoWorks unit refocused its product offerings and go to market strategies, placing increased emphasis on EVO and its placement into large industrial settings within our identified target markets. We believe EVO has industrial applications across a broad range of market verticals, and the unit is currently targeting end markets in aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, commercial construction, and renewable energy. At the end of the second quarter of 2022, we ceased commercialization of our EksoZeroG support arm and related products and accessories. Third Quarter 2023 Highlights Sold a total of 41 EksoHealth units in the third quarter of 2023 Reported revenue of $4.6 million in the third quarter of 2023, an increase of 38.4% year-over-year Economic and Industry Trends Our revenue is highly dependent on market demand for our exoskeleton products. This market demand is influenced by many factors including the level of awareness of robotic exoskeleton rehabilitation among the rehabilitation clinics with significant stroke, ABI, and SCI populations, the imperatives among construction and manufacturing companies to drive adoption of improved safety and health practices, the levels of reimbursements our customers will be able to receive, as well as conditions relating to overall economic growth and general business activity. Difficult and challenging economic conditions, including an increasingly inflationary environment, could lead to increased price-based competition. In particular, the effects of such increasing price-based competition may have an especially significant impact on certain products that we offer, including the EksoNR and Ekso Indego, which have a lengthy sale and purchase order cycle because they are major capital expenditure items and generally require the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. Furthermore, our business includes operations in the Americas, EMEA and APAC, so we are affected by demand for our products in those regions, as well as the strengthening or weakening of local currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar. The current economic environment is impacting our customers financially and operationally. Hospitals are experiencing staffing shortages and supply chain issues that affect their ability to provide patient care. Additionally, hospitals are facing significant financial pressure as supply chain constraints and inflation drive up operating costs and fiscal stimulus programs enacted during the COVID-19 pandemic wind down. As a consequence of the financial pressures and decreased profitability, some hospitals have indicated that they are lowering their capital investment plans and tightening their operational budgets. We believe that these factors could contribute to a reduced demand for our offerings, particularly in the United States, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. We believe the clinical need for our products has not diminished, as evidenced by clinical data showing the increased prevalence of strokes during the pandemic. We continue to engage with our current and prospective customers both onsite and virtually through video conferencing, virtual training events and online education demos to offer our support and showcase the value of our Ekso devices. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Our most critical accounting estimates include: the standalone selling prices used to allocate the contract consideration to the individual performance obligations in our device sales arrangements, which impacts revenue recognition; the unobservable inputs and assumptions used by management in estimating the fair value of our warrant liabilities, which impacts net income or loss; the preliminary fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our business combination; the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross profit margins; and the estimates made regarding the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, which impacts our financial condition. 34 Table of Contents Standalone Selling Prices Our device sales arrangements contain multiple products and services, most often including the device(s) and service, both of which we have identified as distinct performance obligations. Revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling prices are based on observable prices at which we separately sell the products or services. If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, then we estimate the standalone selling prices considering market conditions and entity-specific factors including, but not limited to, features and functionality of the products and services, geographies, type of customer, and gross margin targets. Changes in the relative standalone selling price between devices and service can have an impact on how transaction prices are allocated between revenue and deferred revenue. Warrant Liabilities We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to value our warrant liabilities at each reporting period, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, most notably the estimated volatility of our common stock over the expected term. We use our historical common stock volatility to estimate expected volatility over the warrant terms. Management must also make uncertain estimates regarding the likelihood and timing of certain future events for application of the Lattice Model for the valuation of certain warrants. Changes in these assumptions could have potential material impacts on the estimated fair value of warrant liabilities. During the three months ended September 30, 2023, management made no changes to its estimates regarding the likelihood of future events. We do not believe the revision resulted in a material impact to the estimated fair value of warrant liabilities measured using the Lattice Model. Inventory Valuation Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using the standard cost method which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. The cost basis of our inventory is reduced for any products that are considered excessive or obsolete based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Deferred Tax Asset We estimate a valuation allowance in consideration of the realizability of our net deferred tax assets, primarily based on our assessment of the timing, likelihood and amounts of potential future income during which such items become deductible. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we must determine the probability of various possible outcomes and estimate future amounts. Management does not believe it is more likely than not that we will generate future income in a timeframe and amount sufficient to realize our net deferred tax assets. Changes in management's estimate of future income in the timeframe during which the temporary differences and carryforwards comprising our deferred tax assets become deductible could result in a material impact to our financial position including the recognition of a net deferred tax asset. Accounting Policies An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could materially impact the condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that our critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note. 2 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimatesin the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 35 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands, except percentages): Three Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change Revenue $ 4,607 $ 3,329 $ 1,278 38 % Cost of revenue 2,151 1,643 508 31 % Gross profit 2,456 1,686 770 46 % Gross profit % 53 % 51 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 2,052 1,742 310 18 % Research and development 1,159 887 272 31 % General and administrative 2,176 2,711 (535 ) (20 )% Total operating expenses 5,387 5,340 47 1 % Loss from operations (2,931 ) (3,654 ) 723 (20 )% Other (expense) income, net: Interest expense, net (64 ) (34 ) (30 ) 88 % Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities 60 112 (52 ) (46 )% Unrealized loss on foreign exchange (433 ) (732 ) 299 (41 )% Other income, net 3 4 (1 ) (25 )% Total other expense, net (434 ) (650 ) 216 (33 )% Net loss $ (3,365 ) $ (4,304 ) $ 939 (22 )% Revenue Revenue increased $1.3 million, or 38%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022. This increase was comprised of a $1.2 million increase in EksoHealth revenue and a $0.1 million increase in EksoWorks. The increase in EksoHealth revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the volume of EksoNR and Indego device sales. The increase in EksoWorks revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the volume of EVO. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $0.8 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022, driven by an increase in sales in the EksoHealth segment. Gross margin increased to 53% for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to a gross margin of 51% for the same period of 2022. The overall increase in gross margin was primarily due to lower EksoHealth device and service costs. 36 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased $0.3 million, or 18%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022. The increase was primarily due to the addition of headcount associated with the acquisition of HMC. Research and development expenses increased $0.3 million, or 31%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022. The increase was primarily due to the addition of headcount associated with the acquisition of HMC and costs associated with HMC-sponsored research agreements. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.5 million, or 20%, for the three months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022, primarily due to an decrease in legal activity and absence of costs associated with the acquisition of HMC in the comparable quarter. Total Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense, net increased 88% for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022. This increase was related to the promissory note in connection with the HMC acquisition. Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities was $0.1 million for the three months ended September 30, 2023 and September 30, 2022, and was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price, time to maturity, and the risk-free interest rate. Unrealized loss on foreign exchange for the three months ended September 30, 2023 was $0.4 million compared to $0.7 million for the same period of 2022. These unrealized gains and losses are primarily the result of foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. The following table presents our results of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands, except percentages): Nine Months Ended September 30, 2023 2022 Change % Change Revenue $ 13,432 $ 9,361 $ 4,071 43 % Cost of revenue 6,722 4,825 1,897 39 % Gross profit 6,710 4,536 2,174 48 % Gross profit % 50 % 48 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 6,489 5,212 1,277 25 % Research and development 3,712 2,680 1,032 39 % General and administrative 8,172 7,764 408 5 % Total operating expenses 18,373 15,656 2,717 17 % Loss from operations (11,663 ) (11,120 ) (543 ) 5 % Other (expense) income, net: Interest expense, net (236 ) (90 ) (146 ) 162 % Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities 186 1,011 (825 ) (82 )% Unrealized loss on foreign exchange (223 ) (1,704 ) 1,481 (87 )% Other (expense) income, net (48 ) 1 (49 ) (1 ) Total other expense, net (321 ) (782 ) 461 (59 )% Net loss $ (11,984 ) $ (11,902 ) $ (82 ) 1 % (1)Not Meaningful 37 Table of Contents Revenue Revenue increased $4.1 million, or 43%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022. This increase was comprised of a $4.7 million increase in EksoHealth revenue, partially offset by a $0.7 million decrease in EksoWorks. The increase in EksoHealth revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the volume of EksoNR and Indego device sales. The decrease in EksoWorks revenue was primarily driven by a reduction in the volume of EVO sales and the absence of the recognition of royalty revenue in the comparable period of 2022 related to an expired license and distribution agreement. Revenue from our EVO product line was affected by delays from our transition to our contract manufacturer. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $2.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022, driven by an increase in sales in the EksoHealth segment. Gross margin increased to 50% for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to a gross margin of 48% for the same period of 2022. The overall increase in gross margin was primarily due to lower device costs. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses increased $1.3 million, or 25%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022. The increase was primarily due to additional headcount associated with the acquisition of HMC and severance expense. Research and development expenses increased $1.0 million, or 39%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022. The increase was primarily due to additional headcount associated with the acquisition of HMC and costs associated with HMC-sponsored research agreements. General and administrative expenses increased $0.4 million, or 5%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022, primarily due to an increase in audit and accounting services in connection with the acquisition of HMC, and costs associated with the integration of HMC, partially offset by the absence of severance costs associated with the departure of our former Chief Executive Officer in the same period of 2022. Total Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense, net increased 162% for the three months ended September 30, 2023 compared to the same period of 2022. This increase was related to the promissory note in connection with to the HMC acquisition. Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities was $0.2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, and was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities was $1.0 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2022, and was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price, time to maturity, and the risk-free interest rate. Unrealized loss on foreign exchange for the nine months ended September 30, 2023 was $0.2 million compared to an unrealized loss on foreign exchange of $1.7 million for the same period of 2022. These unrealized gains and losses are primarily the result of foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. 38 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts toward the development and commercialization of exoskeletons for the medical and industrial markets and toward raising capital. We have financed our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of equity securities for cash consideration and through bank debt. Liquidity and Capital Resources On September 30, 2023, we had working capital of $14.6 million, compared to working capital of $21.8 million at December 31, 2022. The decrease in working capital was primarily due to a lower cash balance from cash used in operations. Our cash as of September 30, 2023, consisted of bank deposits with third party financial institutions. As of September 30, 2023, of our $9.9 million of cash, $9.5 million was held domestically while $0.4 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. As described in Note 10 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q under the caption Notes Payable, net, borrowings under our secured term loan agreement with Pacific Western Bank have a requirement of minimum cash on hand equivalent to the current outstanding principal balance. As of September 30, 2023, $2.0 million of cash must remain as restricted. After considering cash restrictions, effective unrestricted cash as of September 30, 2023 is approximately $7.9 million. Cash The following table summarizes the sources and uses of cash (in thousands). Nine months ended September 30, 2023 2022 Net cash used in operating activities $ (10,470 ) $ (11,044 ) Net cash used in investing activities (114 ) (141 ) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (4 ) (41 ) Net decrease in cash (10,588 ) (11,226 ) Cash and restricted cash at beginning of period 20,525 40,406 Cash and restricted cash at end of period $ 9,937 $ 29,180 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operations decreased 5%, for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, compared to the same period of 2022 was primarily due to an increase in sales and the absence of business development costs incurred in the comparable period, partially offset by payments of acquisition and integration costs associated with HMC. 39 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities for the nine months ended September 30, 2023, was related to leasehold improvements for our new headquarters and manufacturing facility in San Rafael, California and manufacturing equipment. Material Cash Requirements and Going Concern Our material cash requirements include the following items, some of which are represented in the table of Contractual Obligations and Commitments: (1) employee wages, benefits and incentives, (2) the procurement of raw materials and components to support the manufacturing and sale of our products, (3) expenditures for the ongoing improvement and development of existing and new technologies, (4) debt repayments (for additional information see Note 10 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q), and (5) operating lease payments (for additional information see Note 11 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q). We expect that our operating cash requirements in the near term will continue to exceed cash provided by operations with the additional headcount and product development activities assumed in the HMC Acquisition and service of our promissory note with Parker Hannifin. As described in Note 1. Organization: Liquidity and Going Concern of the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements, management believes that substantial doubt exists about our ability to meet cash requirements twelve months from the issuance of such financial statements, and such substantial doubt is not alleviated by our plans. The Company does not expect, nor do our historical operating results suggest, that cash flows generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our material cash requirements in the long term. Management expects that the Company's historical reliance on external financing, from both equity and debt financings, will continue to provide the capital necessary to meet its material cash requirements in the long term. Management has not yet determined the form such additional financing may take, but management expects that the most likely forms include one or more of the following: (i) underwritten offerings of shares of our common stock or other offerings of equity and/or equity-linked securities, (ii) sales of shares of our common stock under an "at the market" offering program, (iii) incurring indebtedness with one or more financial institutions, and (iv) the factoring of trade receivables. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of September 30, 2023, and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Payments Due By Period: Less than Total One Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years Term loan $ 2,484 $ 171 $ 2,313 $ Promissory note 5,000 938 2,500 1,562 Facility operating leases 1,319 431 821 67 Purchase obligations 2,741 2,741 Total $ 11,544 $ 4,281 $ 5,634 $ 1,629 In response to, or in anticipation of, supplier disruptions and extended lead times, we may stockpile certain components or raw materials to help prevent disruption in our production of the EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal devices. Such purchasing behavior is a contributing factor to the increase in purchase obligations as compared to prior periods. These actions have, and could continue to have, a short-term adverse impact on our cash used in operating activities and increase our inventory balance. Obligations related to these activities are reflected in the line purchase obligations in the table above. Refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our contractual obligations and lease commitments. 40 Table of Contents