Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In this Quarterly Report, the Company, we, its and our refers to Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operation should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2021 (this Quarterly Report) and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 (the Annual Report). This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements other than statements of historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report, including statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) a projection of income (including income/loss), earnings (including earnings/loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items, (iii) our future financial performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and analysis of financial condition by management or in the results of operations included pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, (iv) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities for exoskeleton technology in general and our exoskeleton products in particular, (v) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, and (vi) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above. The words may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and similar expressions (including the negative of any of the foregoing) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors included in our Annual Report, as updated and supplemented in this Quarterly Report under the heading Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors, could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking information: our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund operations and to develop or enhance our technology; scope, scale and duration of the impact of outbreaks of a pandemic disease, such as COVID-19 (coronavirus); our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our medical devices; our ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis and that completed clinical trials will be sufficient to support commercialization of our products; the anticipated timing, cost and progress of the development and commercialization of new products or services, and improvements to our existing products, and related impacts on our profitability and cash position; our ability to effectively market and sell our products and expand our business, both in unit sales and product diversification; our ability to achieve broad customer adoption of our products and services; existing or increased competition; rapid changes in technological solutions available to our markets; volatility with our business, including long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter; changes to our domestic or international sales and operations; our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for our intellectual property; the scope, validity and enforceability of our and third-party intellectual property rights; significant government regulation of medical devices and the healthcare industry; our ability to receive regulatory clearance from certain government authorities, such as CFIUS (as defined below), including any conditions, limitations or restrictions placed on such approvals; our customers ability to get third-party reimbursement for our products and services associated with them; the potential for our products to be subject to voluntary or involuntary recall; our product liability insurance may not adequately cover potential claims; warrant claims and our accelerated maintenance program results in additional operating costs to us; our failure to implement our business plan or strategies; our early termination of leases, difficulty filling vacancies or negotiating improved lease terms; our ability to retain or attract key employees; stock volatility or illiquidity; our ability to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting; and overall economic and market conditions. 27 Table of Contents Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore, such statements and information included in this Quarterly Report may not prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such statements and information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results or conditions described in such statements and information or that our objectives and plans will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Our Business We design, develop, sell and rent exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple markets and can be utilized both by able-bodied persons and persons with physical disabilities. We have sold or rented devices that (i) enable individuals with neurological conditions affecting gait (acquired brain injury and spinal cord injury) to rehabilitate, and in some cases, to walk again, (ii) assist individuals with a broad range of upper extremity impairments, and (iii) allow industrial workers to perform difficult repetitive work for extended periods. We believe that the commercial opportunity for exoskeleton technology adoption is accelerating as a result of recent advancements in material technologies, electronic and electrical engineering, control technologies, and sensor and software development. Taken individually, many of these advancements have become ubiquitous in peoples everyday lives. We believe that we have learned how to integrate these existing technologies and wrap the result around a human being efficiently, elegantly and safely, supported by an industry leading intellectual property portfolio. We further believe that we can do so across a broad spectrum of applications, from persons with lower limb paralysis to able-bodied users. EksoHealth EksoHealth is our business unit focused on developing, marketing, and selling exoskeletons for medical applications. Our leading product in EksoHealth, the EksoNR, is a robotic exoskeleton used to provide physical therapy for patients with lower extremity impairment. EksoNR, which in 2019 superseded our EksoGT product in this segment, includes unique features designed specifically to assist physical therapists and other clinicians to teach patients to walk again after suffering a neurological impairment. Typical conditions that can be treated with the assistance of EksoNR include acquired brain injuries, such as stroke and traumatic brain injuries, as well as spinal cord injuries and others. The benefits of using EksoNR for rehabilitation can include earlier mobilization of patients, longer and more intense rehab sessions, and better quality of sessions compared to alternative therapies. The product is most typically used in a clinical setting, with the most common among those being inpatient rehab facilities and stroke centers. EksoUE is a wearable upper body exoskeleton that is also used as a tool during rehabilitation. EksoUE is designed to assists patients with a broad range of upper extremity impairments and aims to provide them with a wider active range of motion and increased endurance for rehabilitation sessions of higher intensity. EksoWorks EksoWorks is our business unit focused on developing, marketing, and selling exoskeletons and other assistive tools for industrial applications. The target users for these devices are generally able-bodied, and as such the goal of these products is to reduce fatigue for workers. The benefits of fatigue reduction can include reduced rates of injuries, higher productivity, higher worker morale, and lower turnover. Currently, we sell these products primarily directly to companies that deploy them for use in their operations. Within EksoWorks we have two main categories of products. Our wearable exoskeleton products include EksoVest and the new EVO, both of which support the weight of a workers arms and tools, reducing the fatigue associated with working at or above shoulder height for extended periods. These products are currently targeted at end markets in Manufacturing, Aerospace, Construction and Food Processing. EksoZeroG is a tool holder that can mount on aerial lift platform or scaffolding. This effectively reduces the weight of heavy tools as felt by the operator. EksoZeroG has been sold primarily through rental companies into the construction market. 28 Table of Contents First Quarter 2021 Highlights Reported revenue of $1.9 million in the first quarter of 2021 Achieved record gross margins of approximately 65% in the first quarter of 2021, compared to 43% in the same period of 2020 Cash at March 31, 2021 was $49.5 million, compared to $12.9 million at December 31, 2020 Received $40 million in gross proceeds from February 2021 public offering, proceeds of $1.4 million from the exercise of warrants, and $0.8 million from sales under our ATM program COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the COVID-19 outbreak to be a global pandemic. In response to this pandemic, public health officials and governments across the world have recommended and mandated actions to curb the spread of the SARS-COV-2 virus, the pathogen that causes COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic and the related responses to the pandemic have caused a significant adverse impact on the global economy, including disruptions to supply chains, sharp increases in unemployment and overall economic uncertainty. This pandemic has negatively impacted our business, including our employees, suppliers, customers and other business partners, resulting in our terminating 23 employees in 2020. We have seen demand for our exoskeleton products decrease in the current business environment, as many inpatient rehabilitation facilities temporarily shifted priorities and delayed capital expenditures. We have seen that the clinical need has not diminished as more data is coming out about the increased prevalence of strokes during this pandemic. As such, we continue to engage with our current and prospective customers through video conferencing, virtual training events and online education demos to offer our support and showcase the value of our Ekso devices. Although market uncertainties related to the pandemic make it difficult for us to project the full impact on our business and customers, we believe that we are well-positioned to serve our customers when business conditions begin to normalize. We continue to instruct the majority of our employees to work from home, restrict non-critical business travel and have enhanced the use of personal protective equipment in our facilities. We are hopeful that COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations will continue to decrease, and now that our clinical team is fully vaccinated and are active onsite at rehab centers, we expect to see an uptick in live in-person interactions going forward. The number of onsite product demonstrations in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the previous three quarters combined. Further, the successful completion of our first virtual training sessions leave us well-positioned to address existing pipeline opportunities, mitigating the effects of future COVID-related lock downs or travel restrictions. Management continues to actively monitor the global situation and its effects on our financial position and operations. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could materially impact the condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that our critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. 29 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations (in thousands, except percentages): Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Change % Change Revenue $ 1,910 $ 1,468 $ 442 30 % Cost of Revenue 675 831 (156) (19) % Gross profit 1,235 637 598 94 % Gross profit % 65 % 43 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 1,793 2,520 (727) (29) % Research and development 603 711 (108) (15) % General and administrative 1,978 2,187 (209) (10) % Total operating expenses 4,374 5,418 (1,044) (19) % Loss from operations (3,139) (4,781) 1,642 (34) % Other (expense) income, net: Interest expense (26) (52) 26 (50) % Gain on warrant liabilities 11 2,519 (2,508) n/m (1) Other expense, net (516) (220) (296) 135 % Total other (expense) income, net (531) 2,247 (2,778) (124) % Net loss $ (3,670) $ (2,534) $ (1,136) 45 % (1) Not meaningful Revenue Revenue increased $0.4 million, or 30%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period of 2020. This increase was comprised of a $0.5 million increase in EksoHealth revenue primarily due to an increase in volume of device sales driven by business conditions normalizing from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as COVID-19 cases and hospitalizations continue to decrease. Gross Profit Gross profit increased $0.6 million, or 94%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period of 2020, primarily attributed to an increased volume of device sales and average selling price for EksoNR. Gross margin was approximately 65% for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to a gross margin of 43% for the same period in 2020. Gross margins increased primarily due to higher average selling prices for EksoNR, an increased proportion of medical device sales in overall revenue composition, lower production costs of the EVO compared to the previous generation vest, and higher service margins. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.7 million, or 29%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period of 2020, primarily due to a decrease in employee compensation expenses as a result of a furlough and a reduction in force in March and May of 2020, respectively, lower selling expense as we shifted to video conferencing, virtual training events and online education demonstrations, and lower general marketing and trade show activities. Research and development expenses decreased $0.1 million, or 15%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period of 2020, primarily due to a decrease in employee compensation expenses as a result of a furlough and a reduction in force in March and May of 2020, respectively, and a decrease in product development activity expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.2 million, or 10%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period of 2020, primarily due to a decrease in employee compensation expenses as a result of a furlough and a reduction in force in March and May of 2020, respectively, and a decrease in outside legal expenses. 30 Table of Contents The reduction in operating expenses reflects the continuation of the company-wide initiatives we implemented last year, as well as improving overall operational efficiencies. Our focus remains on optimizing the cost structure of our organization. Total Other (Expense) Income, Net Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities was de minimis for the three months ended March 31, 2021, was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gain on warrant liabilities of $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2015, 2019 and 2020. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price. Other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2021 was $0.5 million, as compared to $0.2 million for the same period of 2020. The primary reason for the $0.3 million increase in expenses is due to higher unrealized losses on foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts toward the development of exoskeletons for the medical and industrial markets, toward the commercialization of medical exoskeletons to rehabilitation centers and toward raising capital. We have financed our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of equity securities for cash consideration and through bank debt. Liquidity and Capital Resources At March 31, 2021, we had working capital of $48.6 million, compared to working capital of $13.4 million at December 31, 2020. The increase in working capital is primarily due to a higher cash balance from equity financings and warrant exercises. Our cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2021, consisted of bank deposits with third party financial institutions. As of March 31, 2021, of our $49.5 million of cash, $48.8 million was held domestically while $0.7 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. As described in Note 8 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements under the caption Notes Payable, net, borrowings under our new secured term loan agreement with Pacific Western Bank have a requirement of minimum cash on hand equivalent to the current outstanding principal balance. As of March 31, 2021, $2.0 million of cash must remain as restricted. After considering cash restrictions, effective unrestricted cash as of March 31, 2021 is estimated to be $47.5 million. With this unrestricted cash balance, we believe that we currently have sufficient cash to fund our operations beyond the look forward period of one year from the issuance of these consolidated financial statements. Cash and Cash Equivalents The following table summarizes the sources and uses of cash (in thousands). We held no cash equivalents for any of the periods presented. Three months ended March 31, 2021 2020 Net cash used in operating activities $ (2,000) $ (1,722) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 38,712 (589) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (35) (45) Net increase (decrease) in cash 36,677 (2,356) Cash at the beginning of the period 12,862 10,872 Cash at the end of the period $ 49,539 $ 8,516 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operations increased $0.3 million, or 16%, for the three months ended March 31, 2021, compared to the same period of 2020 primarily due to lower cash collections as a result of lower sales in the three months ended December 31, 2020, partially offset by a reduction in operating expenses by improving overall operational efficiencies, including but not limited to, the reduction of employee headcount. 31 Table of Contents Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $38.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, was from the sale of common stock and warrants for net proceeds of $36.5 million in connection with the equity financing, net proceeds of $0.7 million from our at the market offering program, and proceeds of $1.4 million from the exercise of warrants. Net cash used in financing activities of $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020, was due to aggregate principal payments against our term loan. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of March 31, 2021, and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Payments Due By Period: Total Less than One Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years After 5 Years Note payable, principal and interest $ 3,324 $ 924 $ 2,400 $ $ Facility operating leases 646 547 99 Purchase obligations 919 919 Total $ 4,889 $ 2,390 $ 2,499 $ $ In addition to the table above, which reflects only fixed payment obligations, we have two license agreements to maintain exclusive rights to certain patents. Under these license agreements, we are required to pay 1% of net sales of licensed medical products sold to entities other than the U.S. government. In addition, we are required to pay 21% of consideration collected from any sub-licensee for the grant of the sub-license. The license agreements also stipulate minimum annual royalties of $50,000 per year. In connection with our acquisition of Equipois in December 2015, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois under a license agreement with the developer of certain intellectual property related to mechanical balance and support arm technologies, which grants us an exclusive license with respect to the technology and patent rights for certain fields of use. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we are required to pay the developer a single-digit royalty on net receipts, subject to a $50,000 annual minimum royalty requirement. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. Purchase obligations are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. We had purchase obligations primarily for purchases of inventory and manufacturing related service contracts totaling $0.9 million as of March 31, 2021, which is expected to be paid within a year. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.