Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operation should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2020 (this Quarterly Report) and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 (the Annual Report). This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements other than statements of historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report, including statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) a projection of income (including income/loss), earnings (including earnings/loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items, (iii) our future financial performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and analysis of financial condition by management or in the results of operations included pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, (iv) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities for exoskeleton technology in general and our exoskeleton products in particular, (v) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, and (vi) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above. The words may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and similar expressions (including the negative of any of the foregoing) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors included in our Annual Report, as updated and supplemented in this Quarterly Report under the heading Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors, could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking information: our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund operations and to develop or enhance our technology; scope, scale and duration of the impact of outbreaks of a pandemic disease, such as COVID-19 (coronavirus); our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our medical devices; our ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis and that completed clinical trials will be sufficient to support commercialization of our products; the anticipated timing, cost and progress of the development and commercialization of new products or services, and improvements to our existing products, and related impacts on our profitability and cash position; our ability to effectively market and sell our products and expand our business, both in unit sales and product diversification; our ability to achieve broad customer adoption of our products and services; existing or increased competition; rapid changes in technological solutions available to our markets; volatility with our business, including long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter; changes to our domestic or international sales and operations; our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for our intellectual property; the scope, validity and enforceability of our and third-party intellectual property rights; significant government regulation of medical devices and the healthcare industry; our ability to receive regulatory clearance from certain government authorities, such as CFIUS (as defined below), including any conditions, limitations or restrictions placed on such approvals; outbreaks of a pandemic disease, such as COVID-19 (coronavirus); our customers ability to get third-party reimbursement for our products and services associated with them; our failure to implement our business plan or strategies; our early termination of leases, difficulty filling vacancies or negotiating improved lease terms; our ability to retain or attract key employees; stock volatility or illiquidity; our ability to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting; and overall economic and market conditions. Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore, such statements and information 30 Table of Contents included in this Quarterly Report may not prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such statements and information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results or conditions described in such statements and information or that our objectives and plans will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview We design, develop and sell exoskeleton technology to augment human strength, endurance and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple markets and can be used both by able-bodied persons as well as by persons with physical disabilities. We have sold or leased devices that (i) enable individuals with neurological conditions affecting gait (stroke and spinal cord injury) to rehabilitate, and in some cases, to walk again, (ii) assist individuals with a broad range of upper extremity impairments, and (iii) allow industrial workers to perform difficult repetitive work for extended periods. In August 2019, we introduced our next generation lower extremity rehabilitation exoskeleton, EksoNR, which succeeds our EksoGT. Our EksoNR, is used as a rehabilitation tool to allow physicians and therapists to rehabilitate patients who have suffered a stroke or spinal cord injury. With its unique features designed specifically for hospitals and its proprietary SmartAssist software, EksoNR allows for the early mobilization of patients, enabling increased endurance during rehabilitation sessions through higher step counts and for longer periods. The intent is to allow the patients central nervous system to take advantage of a persons neuroplasticity to maximize a patients recovery. In July 2019, we announced the expansion of our medical exoskeleton portfolio with an upper extremity rehabilitation device called EksoUE. EksoUEs wearable upper body exoskeleton assists patients with a broad range of upper extremity impairments and aims to provide them with a wider active range of motion and increased endurance for rehabilitation sessions of higher intensity. Our EksoVest is an upper body exoskeleton that elevates and supports a worker's arms to assist them with tasks ranging from chest height to overhead. In 2020, we are focusing on increasing sales of the EksoVest and the support arm, EksoZeroG, by pursuing alternative channels, such as rental agreements with construction equipment and heavy tool providers and working with automotive and related manufacturers to roll out our product(s) globally within their assembly operations. In addition, we believe that there is additional mid-to-long-term potential in the industrial markets, and accordingly, we will continue our development efforts to expand our EksoWorks product offerings. We believe that the commercial opportunity for exoskeleton technology adoption is accelerating as a result of recent advancements in material technologies, electronic and electrical engineering, control technologies, and sensor and software development. Taken individually, many of these advancements have become ubiquitous in peoples everyday lives. We believe that we have learned how to integrate these existing technologies and wrap the result around a human being efficiently, elegantly and safely, supported by an industry leading intellectual property portfolio. We further believe that we can do so across a broad spectrum of applications, from persons with lower limb paralysis to able-bodied users. First Quarter 2020 Highlights Reported revenue of $1.5 million in the first quarter of 2020, as customers delayed orders due to the COVID-19 global pandemic. Cash utilization decreased to $1.7 million in the first quarter of 2020, down from $5.2 million in the first quarter of 2019. Signed new pilot programs with two network operators in March. Regained Nasdaq listing compliance. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected inpatient rehabilitation facilities as they temporarily shifted priorities and responses to pandemic-related medical equipment. We are, however, encouraged that the majority of our customers have indicated that they still plan to place orders for our exoskeleton products in the future, which gives us optimism for our longer-term prospects. To align our expenses with the current business environment, we took measures to adjust our cost structure, which included furloughing a portion of our workforce. Despite these unprecedented challenges, we continue to regularly engage with our current and prospective customers through video conferencing, virtual training events and online education demos to offer our support and showcase the value of our Ekso devices. Although market uncertainties related to the pandemic make it difficult for 31 Table of Contents us to project the full impact on our business and customers, we believe that we are well-positioned to serve our customers when business conditions begin to normalize. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could materially impact the condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that our critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations (in thousands, except percentages): Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Change % Change Revenue $ 1,468 $ 3,616 $ (2,148) (59) % Cost of Revenue 831 2,017 (1,186) (59) % Gross profit 637 1,599 (962) (60) % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 2,520 2,809 (289) (10) % Research and development 711 1,384 (673) (49) % General and administrative 2,187 2,318 (131) (6) % Total operating expenses 5,418 6,511 (1,093) (17) % Loss from operations (4,781) (4,912) 131 (3) % Other income (expense), net: Interest expense (52) (121) 69 (57) % Gain (loss) on warrant liabilities 2,519 (1,122) 3,641 (325) % Loss on modification of warrants (257) 257 n/m (1) Other expense, net (220) (139) (81) 58 % Total other income (expense), net 2,247 (1,639) 3,886 (237) % Net loss $ (2,534) $ (6,551) $ 4,017 (61) % (1) Not meaningful Revenue Revenue decreased $2.1 million, or 59%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019. This decrease was comprised of a $1.6 million decrease in EksoHealth revenue and a $0.5 million decrease in EksoWorks revenue primarily due to a decrease in volume of device sales driven by the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as our customers shifted their priorities to prepare for and manage their business during the pandemic. This has caused many of our customers to delay orders, which are typically booked in the last few weeks of a quarter. Gross Profit 32 Table of Contents Gross profit decreased $1.0 million, or 60%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily attributed to decreased volume of device sales. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.3 million, or 10%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to a decrease in general marketing and trade show activities and the absence of clinical trials expense due to the completion of our main clinical trial in 2019. Research and development expenses decreased $0.7 million, or 49%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to a decrease in patent and licensing costs and lower headcount. General and administrative expenses decreased $0.1 million, or 6%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to lower salary expenses from reduced headcount. The reduction in operating expenses reflects the continuation of the company-wide initiatives we implemented last year, as well as improving overall operational efficiencies. Our focus remains on optimizing the cost structure of our organization. Total Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense decreased $0.1 million, or 57% for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019, primarily due to a lower principal balance on our term loan. Gain on warrant liabilities of $2.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2015 and 2019, compared to a $1.1 million loss associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2015 for the three months ended March 31, 2019. The gain on the revaluation of warrant liabilities during the three months ended March 31, 2020 is primarily due to decreases in the market price of our common stock on The Nasdaq Capital Market from $5.86 on December 31, 2019 to $2.83 on March 31, 2020, while the prior year losses upon revaluation of the warrant liabilities are primarily due to increases in our stock price during that period. Other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was $0.2 million, as compared to $0.1 million for the same period of 2019. The primary reason for the increase in expenses is due to larger unrealized losses on foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts toward the development of exoskeletons for the medical and industrial markets, toward the commercialization of medical exoskeletons to rehabilitation centers and toward raising capital. We have financed our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of equity securities for cash consideration and through bank debt. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of March 31, 2020, we had an accumulated deficit of $185.8 million. Largely as a result of significant research and development activities related to the development of our advanced technology and commercialization of such technology into our medical device business, we have incurred significant operating losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. In the three months ended March 31, 2020, we used $1.7 million of cash in our operations. Cash on hand as of March 31, 2020 was $8.5 million, compared to $10.9 million as of December 31, 2019. As noted in Note 9. Note Payable, net in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements, borrowings under our term loan agreement have a requirement of minimum cash on hand approximately equivalent to three months of cash burn. As of March 31, 2020, the most recent determination of this restriction, $3.6 million of cash must remain as restricted, with such amounts to be re-computed at each month end. After considering cash restrictions, effective unrestricted cash as of March 31, 2020 is estimated to be $5.0 million. Subsequent to March 31, 2020, we entered into an amendment to our term loan agreement, which reduces the minimum liquidity covenant to the current outstanding principal balance. Refer to Note 17. Subsequent events in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Based on current forecasted amounts, our cash on hand will not be sufficient to satisfy our operations for the next twelve months from the date of issuance of these condensed consolidated financial statements, which raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. 33 Table of Contents Based upon our current cash resources, the recent rate of using cash for operations and investment, and assuming modest increases in current revenue, we believe that we have sufficient resources to operate in compliance with our debt covenants until the end of the fourth quarter of 2020. While we will require significant additional financing, our actual capital requirements may vary significantly and will depend on many factors. We plan to continue our investments in our (i) sales initiatives to accelerate adoption of the Ekso robotic exoskeleton in the rehabilitation market, (ii) research, development and commercialization activities with respect to exoskeletons for rehabilitation, and (iii) development and commercialization of able-bodied exoskeletons for industrial use. We are actively pursuing opportunities to obtain additional financing through public or private equity and/or debt financings and corporate collaborations. Sales of additional equity securities by us could result in the dilution of the interests of our existing stockholders. There can be no assurance that financing will be available when required in sufficient amounts, on acceptable terms or at all. In the event that the necessary additional financing is not obtained, we may be required to further reduce our discretionary overhead costs substantially, including research and development, general and administrative, and sales and marketing expenses or otherwise curtail operations. Cash and Cash Equivalents The following table summarizes the sources and uses of cash (in thousands). We held no cash equivalents for any of the periods presented. Three months ended March 31, 2020 2019 Net cash used in operating activities $ (1,722) $ (5,177) Net cash used in investing activities (7) Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities (589) 6,769 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (45) (4) Net increase (decrease) in cash (2,356) 1,581 Cash at the beginning of the period 10,872 7,655 Cash at the end of the period $ 8,516 $ 9,236 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operations decreased $3.5 million, or 67%, for the three months ended March 31, 2020, compared to the same period of 2019 primarily due to the reduction in operating expenses by improving overall operational efficiencies, including but not limited to, the reduction of employee headcount. In addition, increased collection efforts resulted in higher accounts receivable collections. Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $0.6 million for the three months ended March 31, 2020 was due to aggregate principal payments of $0.6 million against our term loan. Net cash provided by financing activities of $6.8 million for the three months ended March 31, 2019 was from the sale of common stock under our "at the market offering" program of $2.3 million and proceeds of $5.0 million from equity investors associated with the JV Agreement, offset by aggregate principal payments of $0.6 million against our term loan. 34 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of March 31, 2020, and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Payments Due By Period: Total Less than One Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years After 5 Years Note payable, principal and interest $ 2,249 $ 2,249 $ $ $ Facility operating leases 1,029 434 595 Purchase obligations 881 881 Financing lease 12 12 Total $ 4,171 $ 3,576 $ 595 $ $ In addition to the table above, which reflects only fixed payment obligations, we have two license agreements to maintain exclusive rights to certain patents. Under these license agreements, we are required to pay 1% of net sales of products sold to entities other than the U.S. government. In the event of a sublicense, we owe 21% of license fees and must pass through 1% of the sub-licensees net sales of products sold to entities other than the U.S. government. The license agreements also stipulate minimum annual royalties of $50,000 per year. In connection with our acquisition of Equipois in December 2015, we assumed the rights and obligations of Equipois under a license agreement with the developer of certain intellectual property related to mechanical balance and support arm technologies, which grants us an exclusive license with respect to the technology and patent rights for certain fields of use. Pursuant to the terms of the license agreement, we pay the developer a single-digit royalty on net receipts, subject to a $50,000 annual minimum royalty requirement. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. Purchase obligations are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. We had purchase obligations primarily for purchases of inventory and manufacturing related service contracts totaling $0.9 million as of March 31, 2020, which is expected to be paid within a year. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations.