Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations In this Quarterly Report, the Company, we, its and our refers to Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2022 (this Quarterly Report) and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021 (the Annual Report). This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include statements other than statements of historical facts contained or incorporated by reference in this Quarterly Report, including statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) a projection of income (including income/loss), earnings (including earnings/loss) per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items, (iii) our future financial performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and analysis of financial condition by management or in the results of operations included pursuant to the rules and regulations of the SEC, (iv) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities for exoskeleton technology in general and our exoskeleton products in particular, (v) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, and (vi) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above. The words may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and similar expressions (including the negative of any of the foregoing) are intended to identify forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, including those described in the section titled Risk Factors included in our Annual Report, as updated and supplemented in this Quarterly Report under the heading Part II Item 1A. Risk Factors, could cause our future results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking information: our ability to obtain adequate financing to fund operations and to develop or enhance our technology; our ability to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market our medical devices; our ability to complete clinical trials on a timely basis and that completed clinical trials will be sufficient to support commercialization of our products; the anticipated timing, cost and progress of the development and commercialization of new products or services, and improvements to our existing products, and related impacts on our profitability and cash position; our ability to effectively market and sell our products and expand our business, both in unit sales and product diversification; our ability to achieve broad customer adoption of our products and services; existing or increased competition; rapid changes in technological solutions available to our markets; volatility with our business, including long and variable sales cycles, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations for any given quarter; changes to our domestic or international sales and operations; our ability to obtain or maintain patent protection for our intellectual property; the scope, validity and enforceability of our and third-party intellectual property rights; significant government regulation of medical devices and the healthcare industry; our ability to receive regulatory clearance from certain government authorities, such as CFIUS (as defined below), including any conditions, limitations or restrictions placed on such approvals; our customers ability to get third-party reimbursement for our products and services associated with them; the potential for our products to be subject to voluntary or involuntary recall; our product liability insurance may not adequately cover potential claims; warrant claims and our accelerated maintenance program results in additional operating costs to us; our failure to implement our business plan or strategies; our early termination of leases, difficulty filling vacancies or negotiating improved lease terms; our ability to retain or attract key employees; scope, scale and duration of the impact of outbreaks of a pandemic disease, such as COVID-19 (coronavirus); stock volatility or illiquidity; our ability to maintain adequate internal controls over financial reporting; and overall economic and market conditions. 26 Table of Contents Although we believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information contained herein are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate, and therefore, such statements and information included in this Quarterly Report may not prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the forward-looking statements and forward-looking information included herein, the inclusion of such statements and information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the results or conditions described in such statements and information or that our objectives and plans will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Quarterly Report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements. Overview Our Business We design, develop, and market exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance and mobility. Our exoskeleton technology serves multiple markets and can be utilized both by able-bodied persons and by persons with physical disabilities. We have sold or leased devices that (i) enable individuals with neurological conditions affecting gait, including ABI and SCI, to rehabilitate, and in some cases, to walk again, (ii) assist individuals with a broad range of upper extremity impairments, and (iii) allow industrial workers to perform difficult repetitive work for extended periods. We believe that the commercial opportunity for exoskeleton technology adoption is accelerating as a result of recent advancements in material technologies, electronic and electrical engineering, control technologies, and sensor and software development. Taken individually, many of these advancements have become ubiquitous in peoples everyday lives. We believe that we have learned how to integrate these existing technologies and wrap the result around a human being efficiently, elegantly and safely, supported by an industry leading intellectual property portfolio. We further believe that we can do so across a broad spectrum of applications, from persons with lower limb paralysis to able-bodied users. EksoHealth EksoHealth is our business unit focused on developing and marketing exoskeletons for medical applications. Our leading product in EksoHealth, the EksoNR, is a robotic exoskeleton used to provide physical therapy for patients with lower extremity impairment. EksoNR, which in 2019 superseded our EksoGT product in this segment, includes unique features designed specifically to assist physical therapists and other clinicians to teach patients to walk again after suffering a neurological impairment. Typical conditions that can be treated with the assistance of EksoNR include ABIs, such as stroke and traumatic brain injuries, as well as SCIs and others. The benefits of using EksoNR for rehabilitation can include earlier mobilization of patients, longer and more intense rehab sessions, and better quality of sessions compared to alternative therapies. The product is most typically used in a clinical setting, with the most common among those being inpatient rehab facilities and stroke centers. EksoUE is a wearable upper body exoskeleton that is also used as a tool during rehabilitation. EksoUE is designed to assist patients with a broad range of upper extremity impairments and aims to provide them with a wider active range of motion and increased endurance for rehabilitation sessions of higher intensity. EksoWorks EksoWorks is our business unit focused on developing, marketing, and selling exoskeletons and other assistive tools for industrial applications. The target users for these devices are generally able-bodied, and as such the goal of these products is to reduce fatigue for workers. The benefits of fatigue reduction can include reduced rates of injuries, higher productivity, higher worker morale, and lower turnover. Currently, we primarily sell these products directly to companies that deploy them for use in their operations. Within EksoWorks we have two main categories of products. Our wearable exoskeleton products include EksoVest and the new EVO, both of which support the weight of a workers arms and tools, reducing the fatigue associated with working at or above shoulder height for extended periods. These products are currently targeted at end markets in aerospace, automotive, manufacturing, and specific construction trades. EksoZeroG is a tool holder that can mount on an aerial lift platform or scaffolding. This effectively reduces the weight of heavy tools as felt by the operator. EksoZeroG has been sold primarily through rental companies into the construction market. 27 Table of Contents First Quarter 2022 Highlights Reported revenue of $2.6 million in the first quarter of 2022 Achieved gross margins of approximately 47% in the first quarter of 2022 Booked a total of 23 EksoNR units in the first quarter of 2022 Strong cash position of $36.2 million as of March 31, 2022 Economic and Industry Trends Our revenue is highly dependent on market demand for our exoskeleton products. This market demand is influenced by many factors including the level of awareness of robotic exoskeleton rehabilitation among the rehabilitation clinics with significant stroke, ABI, and SCI populations, the imperatives among construction and manufacturing companies to drive adoption of improved safety and health practices, as well as conditions relating to overall economic growth and general business activity. Difficult and challenging economic conditions, including growing supply chain issues amidst an increasingly inflationary environment, could lead to increased price-based competition. In particular, the effects of such increasing price-based competition may have an especially significant impact on certain products that we offer, including the EksoNR, which have a lengthy sale and purchase order cycle because they are major capital expenditure items and generally require the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. Furthermore, our business includes operations in the Americas, EMEA and APAC, so we are affected by demand for our products in those regions, as well as the strengthening or weakening of local currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar. The COVID-19 pandemic and related public health measures have also materially affected how we and our customers are operating our businesses, and have materially affected our operating results, as demand for our exoskeleton products decreased as many inpatient rehabilitation facilities temporarily shifted priorities and delayed capital expenditures. While the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results remain uncertain, we have seen certain recovery in the demand for our exoskeleton products following the gradual reopening and recovery of the broader global economy, and we believe the clinical need for our products has not diminished, as evidenced by clinical data showing the increased prevalence of strokes during the pandemic. Although concerns about the emergence of new, more infectious variants of the coronavirus remain, we have gradually resumed in-person engagements in addition to virtual meetings with our current and prospective customers through conferences, training events and educational demos to offer our support and showcase the value of our Ekso devices. Further, now that our clinical team is fully vaccinated and are active onsite at U.S. rehab centers, we expect to see an uptick in live in-person interactions going forward. Although market uncertainties related to the pandemic make it difficult for us to project the full impact on our business and customers, we believe that we are well-positioned to serve our customers when business conditions begin to normalize. Throughout the pandemic, our top priority has been to protect the health and safety of our employees and our consumers. We have an optional work from home policy for many of our employees. Vaccinated employees are permitted to work in the office and we have allowed essential business travel to resume. We have also enhanced the use of personal protective equipment in our facilities. Management continues to actively monitor the global situation, including the geopolitical instability arising out of military conflict and escalating tensions between Russia and Ukraine, and its effects on our financial position and operations. Management Changes On January 14, 2022, Jack Peurach, our former President and Chief Executive Officer, notified us of his intention to resign as an officer and member of the Board of Directors of the Company to pursue other endeavors. On January 20, 2022, our Board and Mr. Peurach reached an understanding regarding his decision to leave the Company and entered into an Executive Separation and Release Agreement pursuant to which Mr. Peurachs last day of service as the President, Chief Executive Officer and as a member of the Companys Board was January 21, 2022. In addition, our Board of Directors appointed Steven Sherman, who currently serves and previously had served as the Chairman of our Board, to become Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective January 22, 2022. Mr. Sherman continues to serve as the Chairman of the Board of the Company, and Board member Stanley Stern has been designated the Boards lead independent director. Furthermore, our Board of Directors appointed Scott Davis to become President and Chief Operating Officer effective January 22, 2022. 28 Table of Contents Finally, on March 4, 2022, William Shaw, our former Chief Commercial Officer, notified our Board of Directors of his intention to resign as Chief Commercial Officer of the Company effective March 11, 2022 in connection with his retention as an employee at another company. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our condensed consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these condensed consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could materially impact the condensed consolidated financial statements. We believe that our critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the condensed consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note. 2 Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. Results of Operations The following table presents our results of operations (in thousands, except percentages): Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Change % Change Revenue $ 2,567 $ 1,910 $ 657 34 % Cost of Revenue 1,358 675 683 101 % Gross profit 1,209 1,235 (26) (2) % Gross profit % 47 % 65 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 1,629 1,793 (164) (9) % Research and development 999 603 396 66 % General and administrative 2,818 1,978 840 42 % Total operating expenses 5,446 4,374 1,072 25 % Loss from operations (4,237) (3,139) (1,098) 35 % Other expense, net: Interest expense (27) (26) (1) 4 % (Loss) gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities (100) 11 (111) n/m (1) Other expense, net (256) (516) 260 (50) % Total other expense, net (383) (531) 148 (28) % Net loss $ (4,620) $ (3,670) $ (950) 26 % (1) Not meaningful Revenue Revenue increased $0.7 million, or 34%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period of 2021. Revenue in the first quarter of 2022 included approximately $1.9 million in EksoHealth revenue and approximately $0.7 million in EksoWorks revenue. The increase in revenue was primarily driven by an increase in the volume of EVO vest sales in the EksoWorks business unit and recognition of prepaid royalties associated with a license and distribution agreement that expired. Gross Profit 29 Table of Contents Gross profit decreased 2% for the three months ended March 31, 2022 compared to the same period of 2021. Gross margin was approximately 47% for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to a gross margin of 65% for the same period in 2021. The overall decrease in gross margin was primarily due to the increase in EksoHealth service costs, changes in product mix and increases in inventory costs due to the continued supply shortage; partially offset by the recognition of royalty revenue associated with a license and distribution agreement that expired. EksoHealth service costs increased due to increased headcount and the company providing service on an increased number of customer units, owing to the receipt of service parts during the quarter, the shortage of which had previously precluded the completion of service. Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $0.2 million, or 9%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period of 2021. The decrease was primarily due to reduced general marketing activities. Research and development expenses increased $0.4 million, or 66%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period of 2021, primarily due to an increase in product development activity and headcount. General and administrative expenses increased $0.8 million, or 42%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period of 2021, primarily due to an increase in compensation costs associated with the appointment of our new Chief Operating Officer and noncash stock-based compensation related to the appointment of our new Chief Executive Officer, as well as severance expense associated with the departure of our former Chief Executive Officer. Total Other Expense, Net Loss on revaluation of warrant liabilities was $0.1 million for the three months ended March 31, 2022, and was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gain on warrant liabilities was de minimis for the three months ended March 31, 2021, and was associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price and changes to the risk free rate. Other expense, net for the three months ended March 31, 2022 was $0.3 million, as compared to $0.5 million for the same period of 2021, due to unrealized losses on foreign currency revaluations of our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources Since our inception, we have devoted substantially all of our efforts toward the development of exoskeletons for the medical and industrial markets, toward the commercialization of medical exoskeletons to rehabilitation centers and toward raising capital. We have financed our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of equity securities for cash consideration and through bank debt. Liquidity and Capital Resources On March 31, 2022, we had working capital of $37.2 million, compared to working capital of $40.9 million at December 31, 2021. The decrease in working capital is primarily due to a lower cash balance from cash used in operations. Our cash as of March 31, 2022, consisted of bank deposits with third party financial institutions. As of March 31, 2022, of our $36.2 million of cash, $35.5 million was held domestically while $0.7 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. As described in Note 8 in the notes to our condensed consolidated financial statements under the caption Notes Payable, net, borrowings under our new secured term loan agreement with Pacific Western Bank have a requirement of minimum cash on hand equivalent to the current outstanding principal balance. As of March 31, 2022, $2.0 million of cash must remain as restricted. After considering cash restrictions, effective unrestricted cash as of March 31, 2022 is estimated to be $34.2 million. With this unrestricted cash balance, we believe that we currently have sufficient cash to fund our operations beyond the look forward period of one year from the issuance of these condensed consolidated financial statements. Cash The following table summarizes the sources and uses of cash (in thousands). 30 Table of Contents Three months ended March 31, 2022 2021 Net cash used in operating activities $ (4,206) $ (2,000) Net cash provided by financing activities 38,712 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (24) (35) Net (decrease) increase in cash (4,230) 36,677 Cash at the beginning of the period 40,406 12,862 Cash at the end of the period $ 36,176 $ 49,539 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operations increased $2.2 million, or 110%, for the three months ended March 31, 2022, compared to the same period of 2021 primarily due to higher payments for business development costs incurred in late 2021, increased employee compensation related to higher headcount and increased inventory purchases. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $38.7 million for the three months ended March 31, 2021, was from the sale of common stock and warrants for net proceeds of $36.5 million in connection with the equity financing, net proceeds of $0.7 million from our at the market offering program, and proceeds of $1.4 million from the exercise of warrants. There was no comparable amount for the three months ended March 31, 2022. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of March 31, 2022, and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Payments Due By Period: Total Less than One Year 1-3 Years 3-5 Years After 5 Years Note payable, principal and interest $ 2,128 $ 90 $ 2,038 $ $ Facility operating leases 325 162 144 19 Purchase obligations 3,460 3,393 67 Total $ 5,913 $ 3,645 $ 2,249 $ 19 $ Refer to Note 13. Commitments and Contingencies for additional information regarding our license agreements and purchase obligations.