Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and elsewhere. Any and all statements contained in this Annual Report that are not statements of historical fact may be deemed forward-looking statements. Terms such as may, might, would, should, could, project, estimate, pro-forma, predict, potential, strategy, anticipate, attempt, develop, plan, help, believe, continue, intend, expect, future, and terms of similar import (including the negative of any of the foregoing) may be intended to identify forward-looking statements. However, not all forward-looking statements may contain one or more of these identifying terms. Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report may include, without limitation, statements regarding (i) the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including those relating to the design, development and commercialization of exoskeleton products for humans, (ii) the manufacturing of our products and strengthening of our supply chain, and potential opportunities for strategic partnerships, (iii) beliefs regarding the regulatory path for our products, including potential approvals required and timing of approvals, (iv) our future financial performance, including any such statement contained in a discussion and analysis of our financial condition by management or in our results of operations, (v) our beliefs regarding the potential for commercial opportunities, including for exoskeleton technology and our exoskeleton products, and for strategic partnerships, (vi) our beliefs regarding potential clinical and other health benefits of our medical devices, (vii) the actions we will take in seeking reimbursements from Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ("CMS") and the success of such actions, (viii) the timing and amounts of CMS reimbursement, (ix) our ability to grow and expand our Ekso Indego Personal Health market as we work to grow revenue in light of Medicare reimbursement from CMS of the Ekso Indego Personal, (x) our ability to obtain insurance coverage beyond CMS, (xi) our ability to obtain additional indications for products that cover the Ekso Indego Personal, (xii) our ability to obtain CE certificates for our Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal devices, (xiii) our ability to regain compliance with the Nasdaq continued listing requirements, specifically the minimum bid price requirement, (xiv) the impact and effects of the other risk factors on our business, results of operations or prospects, and (xv) the assumptions underlying or relating to any statement described in points (i) through (xiv) above. The forward-looking statements are not meant to predict or guarantee actual results, performance, events or circumstances and may not be realized because they are based upon our current projections, plans, objectives, beliefs, expectations, estimates and assumptions and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties and other influences, many of which we have no control over. Actual results and the timing of certain events and circumstances may differ materially from those described by the forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties. Factors that may influence or contribute to the inaccuracy of the forward-looking statements or cause actual results to differ materially from expected or desired results may include, without limitation, the Company's ability to obtain reimbursement from CMS on a timely basis and at acceptable levels or at all, changes in CMS reimbursement processes, delays or errors in our insurance reimbursement submissions, including to CMS, the highly competitive markets in which the Companys products are sold, the Company's significant losses to date and anticipated future losses, the new and unproven nature of the market for the Companys products, the significant length of time and resources associated with the development of the Companys products, the long, cyclical and variable sales cycles for the Companys products, the factors outside the Companys control that affect the production and sales of its products, which include but are not limited to disruptions in the global supply chain, the costs related to and impacts of potential failure of the Company to obtain or maintain protection for the Company's intellectual property rights, the inability to successfully consummate and integrate acquisitions, the failure of the Company to obtain or maintain regulatory approval to market the Company's medical devices, adverse results in future clinical studies of the Company's medical device products, risks related to product liability, recall and warranty claims, and the volatility of the market price of and limited trading in our common stock. A description of some of the risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those described by the forward-looking statements in this Annual Report appears in the section captioned Risk Factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements because of the risks and uncertainties related to them and to the risk factors. We disclaim any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report to reflect any new information or future events or circumstances or otherwise, except as required by law. Readers should read this Annual Report in conjunction with the discussion under the caption Risk Factors, our financial statements and the related notes thereto in this Annual Report, and other documents that we may file from time to time with the SEC. Notes regarding references to Ekso Bionics In this Annual Report, the Company, we, its and our refers to Ekso Bionics Holdings, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiaries. Ekso, Ekso Bionics, EksoNR, EVO, EksoPulse, Indego, and Nomad are registered and unregistered trademarks of the Company. All other trademarks that may appear in this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. 3 Table of Contents PART I Item 1. BUSINESS Company Background Founded in 2005, we are a Nevada corporation that designs, develops, and markets exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance and mobility. The primary end market for our exoskeleton technology is healthcare, where our technology primarily serves people with physical disabilities or impairments in both physical rehabilitation and mobility. We continue to explore business development initiatives to fuel growth and long-term value and are committed to helping people improve mobility and live healthier lives through combining the use of technology with advanced rehabilitative programs. Products EksoNR EksoNR is a wearable robotic exoskeleton specifically designed to be used in a rehabilitation setting to assist individuals recovering from both acute and chronic conditions. A trained clinician typically uses the EksoNR to provide adjustable levels of assistance to the wearer's legs to promote proper gait, active engagement, and higher dosage. EksoNR is cleared by the Food and Drug Administration (the "FDA") for use in a clinical setting with individuals with a spinal cord injury ("SCI"), acquired brain injury ("ABI") - including stroke and traumatic brain injuries ("TBI") - and multiple sclerosis ("MS"). Ekso Indego Therapy Ekso Indego Therapy is a modular, adjustable, lightweight, lower-limb powered exoskeleton that can be custom-sized and fitted to patients for use in rehabilitation and wellness applications. Ekso Indego Therapy is cleared by the FDA for use with individuals with stroke or SCI. Ekso Indego Personal Ekso Indego Personal is a lightweight powered lower limb orthosis that enables people with mobility impairments the opportunity to walk independently. Ekso Indego Personal is cleared by the FDA for use with individuals with SCI levels from T3 to L5 in community or home settings. Ekso Nomad Ekso Nomad ("Nomad") is a power Knee Ankle Foot Orthosis, or KAFO. We expect that Nomad will continue to be available in limited volumes for non-Company-sponsored clinical studies in 2025. Ekso EVO Ekso EVO ("EVO") is a wearable upper body exoskeleton that elevates and supports a worker's arms to assist them with tasks from chest height to overhead. EVO is intended to reduce worker fatigue and reduce on-site injuries while boosting productivity. EVO is intended primarily for use with able-bodied individuals and has not been registered with or evaluated by the FDA. Services EksoCare For most of our products, we offer extended warranty and premium service options under our EksoCare program. EksoCare includes a comprehensive warranty, loaner devices to minimize downtime, clinical support, access to our EksoPulse online portal to view statistics and device information gathered and transmitted during EksoNR walking sessions, and other benefits to customers. Device servicing and repair For devices not covered under warranty, we offer fee-for-service repairs and maintenance. Customers may also rent loaner devices on a short-term basis if the time required to service their device will interrupt their ongoing business. Training We offer a range of training programs that are aimed at demonstrating to customers how to use our products safely and effectively. Training is delivered as an online service, in-person, or as a combination of the two. Training is often included with the purchase of a new device, but training can also be purchased separately. 4 Table of Contents Segments We operate as one operating and reportable segment with two markets: Enterprise Health and Personal Health. Our revenues are primarily generated through the sale and subscription of our EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy, and Ekso Indego Personal devices, along with the sale of support and maintenance contracts. For additional information, please refer to Note 16. Segment Disclosures in our notes to the consolidated financial statements. Markets and Distribution Enterprise Health Market Our sales priority for Enterprise Health customers involves the education of clinical and executive stakeholders on the economic and clinical value of our robotic exoskeleton portfolio, including the EksoNR and the Ekso Indego Therapy devices. In tandem, we continue to leverage our EksoNR and Ekso Indego Therapy customer base to educate and mentor strategic target centers that specialize in stroke, TBI, MS, and SCI rehabilitation and treatment in specific geographies. Rehabilitation treatments that can benefit from the use of our EksoNR and Ekso Indego Therapy products take place in a range of different types of facilities. These include inpatient rehabilitation facilities ("IRF"), long-term acute care hospitals ("LTACH"), skilled nursing facilities, and outpatient rehabilitation clinics, among others. The primary facility types we currently serve are IRFs. Among these facilities, ownership structures also vary from small independent rehabilitation centers to larger networks of providers. Our current market focus is on the larger network providers, referred to as integrated delivery networks ("IDN"). Sales to IDNs typically involve multi-unit transactions that can benefit from lower selling costs, better pipeline visibility, and better economies of scale. We also market our Ekso Indego Therapy product to Enterprise Health customers to be used as a training device for users of our Ekso Indego Personal device. In such cases, the Ekso Indego Therapy product may be offered at a discount contingent on future Ekso Indego Personal device trainings volume at that center. See "Personal Health Market" below for additional information. Within our Enterprise Health market we also sell our EVO product to commercial and industrial companies that are focused on solving ergonomic challenges for their workers. These challenges range from injury prevention, fatigue reduction, and/or improved worker productivity. Sales of EVO are focused on applications that involve repetitive work at shoulder height and above. While EVO is a general-purpose product, we currently target specific vertical markets, including aerospace, automotive, general manufacturing, and certain construction trades. The sales cycle in the Enterprise Health market varies but typically takes from approximately eight to 12 months for a first device and six to eight months for subsequent devices. The typical sale of our EksoNR and Ekso Indego Therapy is a complete package, which includes the device and all relevant components, batteries for continuous run-time, training, and certification. Some customers also purchase EksoCare at the time of a new device purchase for up to four years of coverage. The purchase rate of EksoCare varies by country, with U.S. customers typically preferring to include it in their initial purchase. Other regions have lower rates of purchase. In the Enterprise Health market, we offer a range of purchase options. In most cases and when capital is available, the product is sold outright to the customer as a capital sale and the full price is invoiced to the customer after title transfers. For customers who prefer to finance the purchase of their device, we have finance partners who facilitate such transactions. These arrangements are generally marketed as a subscription product to the end customer. Typically, in a subscription arrangement we sell the device to the third-party financing partner who then contracts with the end customer for payment terms. In certain circumstances, we elect to maintain ownership of a product sold as a subscription in lieu of selling it to a third-party financing partner. Subscription arrangements typically last for 12 months to 36 months. 5 Table of Contents We distribute our products to the Enterprise Health market in all of our geographic regions through a combination of direct and indirect (distributor) channels. In the Americas geographic region, sales are primarily made through our direct salesforce. In the Europe, the Middle East, and Africa region (EMEA), we sell through a combination of direct and indirect channels, with German speaking countries handled direct, and other countries and regions served through distributors. In the Asia Pacific region (APAC) we also use a combination of direct and indirect channels depending on the country. Personal Health Market Within the Personal Health market, we serve individual users with the Ekso Indego Personal, which is intended to provide overground ambulation in community and home settings. The primary use case for Ekso Indego Personal is for users with SCI. Specifically, according to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, an estimated 305,000 individuals are currently living with SCI and another 18,000 suffer from new SCI injuries each year. For this user population, confinement to a wheelchair can cause severe physical and psychological deterioration. As a result, the secondary medical consequences of paralysis can include difficulty with bowel and urinary tract function, osteoporosis, loss of lean mass, gain in fat mass, insulin resistance, diabetes, and heart disease. The cost of treating these conditions is substantial. The Ekso Indego Personal device is regulated by the FDA and the patient must have an injury level of T3 to L5 and have a support person when utilizing the device. The U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (the "VA") has an active program to provide products like Ekso Indego Personal to U.S. veterans with SCI. With 25 VA SCI centers, the VA has the largest single network of SCI care in the United States. Veterans who receive our products through the VA complete a screening, in-clinic training and a home trial prior to the VA purchasing a device for each eligible Veteran. We provide products to the VA through distributors classified as Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Businesses (SDVOSB). In April 2024, CMS approved a payment level of approximately $91,000 for Medicare reimbursement of the Ekso Indego Personal, which took effect on April 1, 2024. This regulatory change has the potential to put this technology within reach of thousands of Medicare enrollees currently living with a SCI. In the short-term, with the recent approval of CMS lump sum reimbursement for Ekso Indego Personal, there is a possibility that we will see increased demand for this device as we are able to more economically serve the larger U.S. patient population suffering from SCI. According to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, approximately 57% of individuals with SCI are enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid within five years post-injury. With Medicare reimbursement recently approved, we have begun selling products to individuals in this market through Durable Medical Equipment suppliers ("DMEs"). DMEs typically resell products from DME manufacturers to individual users. DMEs are responsible for the Medicare reimbursement process, which requires a physicians prescription and evidence of medical necessity to be submitted to and approved by Medicare before reimbursement is provided. The Company is developing a scalable go-to-market strategy through establishing and building upon relationships with national and regional DMEs and engaging with recognized third parties who specialize in market access process refinement and claims support. Additionally, we work closely with our extensive network of neurorehabilitation partners across the country, focusing on education efforts on appropriate patient selection and process for patients prescribed an Ekso Indego Personal for the home and community setting. Another key part of our growth strategy is seeking insurance coverage beyond CMS and seeking additional indications of use for our products. We believe that sales of our Personal Health products have the potential to be a significant growth driver for us as we work to gain coverage by other insurance providers, expand the products' indications of use beyond SCI and optimize our reimbursement submission processes. See Part IItem 1A. Risk Factors, specifically the risk titled Coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, including Medicare or Medicaid, may impact sales of our products for more information. Outside of the VA and Medicare, we sell Ekso Indego Personal to individuals who pay out-of-pocket or have obtained coverage through a workers compensation claim. We believe there is additional potential in EMEA and APAC for future sales to private individuals and through government-funded healthcare systems. The sales cycle for the Ekso Indego Personal device averages eight to 12 months from the first interaction we have with the potential Ekso Indego Personal device user. Nomad is currently for sale in limited volumes in the Personal Health market for use in a non-Company-sponsored single clinical study. Subject to clinical and patient feedback, we expect Nomad to be more broadly available starting in 2026. Third-Party Coverage and Payment In our Enterprise Health and Personal Health markets, third-party payers are often involved either to pay for procedures in which our products are used or to purchase our devices on behalf of an individual. These payment mechanisms vary by product line and are described below. Third-party payers are typically not involved in the purchase of our EVO product. Enterprise Health Our customers, including inpatient and outpatient rehabilitation facilities, typically bill third-party payors for the costs and fees associated with the procedures in which our products are used. In the U.S., in order to receive payment for the procedures performed using our products, our customers must report codes that describe the services provided and determine the medical necessity of the service or whether the service is included in the payors policy. Codes used for reimbursement for procedures that utilize our products are generic in nature and do not reference our products specifically. In the U.S. and most markets globally where we sell our products, payment for medical services provided by our customers (collectively providers) is determined by the government, commercial payors (insurers), or both. 6 Table of Contents Personal Health Within the Personal Health market, the VA provides our products to qualified veterans for individual use. CMS and its fiscal intermediaries (Medicare Administrative Contractors) and state Medicaid programs establish reimbursement policies for medical and surgical services at the state and federal level for the Medicare and Medicaid programs. In April 2024, CMS made a final pricing determination setting the reimbursement rate for the product code applicable to our Ekso Indego Personal product. This determination allows individual users who meet the FDA approved indications, along with other criteria, to purchase a device through an authorized DME provider and be reimbursed for 80% of the reimbursable rate. Private third-party payors often rely upon Medicare coverage policy and payment limitations in setting their own coverage and payment policies but also have their own methods and approval processes. In some cases, individuals covered under workers compensation insurance have also purchased our products. Government Regulation U.S. Medical Device Regulation The U.S. government regulates the medical device industry through various agencies, including but not limited to the FDA, which administers the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act ("FDCA"). The design, testing, manufacturing, storage, labeling, distribution, advertising, and marketing of medical devices are subject to extensive regulation by federal, state, and local governmental authorities in the United States, including the FDA, and by similar agencies in other countries. Any medical device product that we develop must receive all requisite regulatory approvals or clearances, as the case may be, before it may be marketed in a particular country. Our establishments in California and Ohio are registered with the FDA as a medical device manufacturer or specification developer, and all of our products, with the exception of EVO, are listed in the FDA database as medical devices. Our bipedal lower extremity exoskeletons - EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy, and Ekso Indego Personal - are regulated as Class II devices and thus are covered under our 510(k) clearances. Nomad is listed as a Class I device with the FDA and is exempt from premarket notification. In the year ended December 31, 2024, there were no reports of adverse events made to the FDA under the Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience Database relating to any of our products. Device Classification Unless otherwise specified by the FDA, under the FDCA, medical devices are classified into one of three classes-Class I, Class II or Class III-depending on the degree of risk associated with each medical device and the extent of control needed to provide reasonable assurances with respect to safety and effectiveness. Class I includes devices with the lowest risk to the patient and are those for which safety and effectiveness can be reasonably assured by adherence to a set of FDA regulations, referred to as the General Controls for Medical Devices, which require compliance with the applicable portions of the Quality System Regulation (QSR), facility registration and product listing, reporting of adverse medical events and malfunctions, and appropriate, truthful and non-misleading labeling, and promotional materials. The FDA has issued a final rule replacing the QSR with a new regulation referred to as the Quality Management System Regulation (QMSR), though this final rule is not scheduled to go into effect until February 2026. Most Class I products are exempt from the premarket notification requirements. Class II devices are those that are subject to the General Controls, and special controls as deemed necessary by the FDA to ensure the safety and effectiveness of the device. These special controls can include performance standards, patient registries, FDA guidance documents and post-market surveillance. Most Class II devices are subject to premarket review and clearance by the FDA. Premarket review and clearance by the FDA for Class II devices is accomplished through the 510(k) premarket notification process, in which the device manufacturer must demonstrate substantial equivalence to a previously cleared device, known as a predicate device. In certain cases, where no predicate device exists, Class II devices may come to market through the de novo authorization process. Establishments that manufacture any class of device, including manufacturers, contract manufacturers, sterilizers, repackagers and relabelers, specification developers, reprocessors of single-use devices, remanufacturers, initial importers, and U.S. manufacturers of export-only devices, are required to register their establishments with the FDA and provide FDA a list of the devices that they handle at their facilities. After a device is authorized for marketing, numerous regulatory requirements continue to apply. Manufacturing processes for medical devices are required to comply with the applicable portions of the QSR, which cover the methods and the facilities and controls for the design, manufacture, testing, production, processes, controls, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, distribution, installation and servicing of finished devices intended for human use. The QSR also requires, among other things, maintenance of a device master file, device history file, and complaint files. Medical device manufacturers are subject to periodic scheduled or unannounced inspections by the FDA and other state and federal authorities, to determine compliance with the QSR and other regulations, and these inspections may include the manufacturing facilities of suppliers. The FDA issued a final rule in February 2024 replacing the QSR with the QMSR, which now incorporates by reference the quality management system requirements of ISO 13485:2016. The FDA has stated that the standards contained in ISO 13485:216 are substantially similar to those set forth in the existing QSR. This final rule does not go into effect until February 2026, such that presently manufacturers must comply with the QSR while they prepare to ensure compliance with the QMSR once it becomes effective. Failure to maintain compliance with the QSR requirements could result in the shutdown of, or restrictions on, manufacturing operations and the recall or seizure of marketed products. The discovery of previously unknown problems with marketed medical devices, including unanticipated adverse events or adverse events of increasing severity or frequency, whether resulting from the use of the device within the scope of its marketing authorization or off-label by a physician in the practice of medicine, could result in restrictions on the device, including the removal of the product from the market or voluntary or mandatory device recalls. The FDA has broad regulatory compliance and enforcement powers. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in compliance or enforcement action by FDA, which may include any or all of the following sanctions, including warning letters, untitled letters, fines, injunctions, consent decrees, and civil penalties; repair, replacement, withdrawal, administrative detention, refunds, recall or seizure of products; operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; refusing or delaying requests for 510(k) clearance of new products or modified products; withdrawing 510(k) clearance or other authorizations; refusal to grant export approvals; or criminal prosecution. Other U.S. regulatory matters Medical device companies are subject to additional healthcare regulation and enforcement by the federal government and by authorities in the states and foreign jurisdictions in which they conduct their business, including the FDA, CMS, other divisions of the Department of Health and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the Consumer Product Safety Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, the Occupational Safety & Health Administration, the Environmental Protection Agency, and state and local governments. In the United States, sales, marketing and scientific and educational programs also must comply with state and federal fraud and abuse, anti-kickback false claims, transparency, government price reporting, anti-corruption, and health information privacy and security laws and regulations. Internationally, other governments also impose regulations in connection with their healthcare reimbursement programs and the delivery of healthcare items and services. These laws include the following: the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, which makes it illegal for any person, including a medical device manufacturer and DME suppliers (or a party acting on its behalf), to knowingly and willfully solicit, receive, offer or pay any remuneration (including any kickback, bribe or certain rebate), directly or indirectly, overtly or covertly, in cash or in kind, or in return for, that is intended to induce or reward referrals, including the purchase, recommendation, order of a medical device or DME for which payment may be made under a federal healthcare program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. Violations are subject to civil and criminal fines and penalties for each violation, plus imprisonment and exclusion from government healthcare programs. In addition, the government may assert that a claim that includes items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act (FCA); the federal civil and criminal false claims laws, including the FCA, which prohibit individuals or entities from, among other things, knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, to the federal government, claims for payment or approval that are false, fictitious or fraudulent; knowingly making, using or causing to be made or used, a false statement or record material to a false or fraudulent claim or obligation to pay or transmit money or property to the federal government; or knowingly concealing or knowingly and improperly avoiding or decreasing an obligation to pay money to the federal government. Manufacturers can be held liable under the FCA even when they do not submit claims directly to government payers if they are deemed to cause the submission of false or fraudulent claims. DME companies that submit claims directly to payers may also be liable under the FCA for the direct submission of such claims. The FCA also permits a private individual acting as a whistleblower to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging violations of the FCA and to share in any monetary recovery. When an entity is determined to have violated the FCA, the government may impose civil fines and penalties for each false claim, plus treble damages, and exclude the entity from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs; the federal civil monetary penalties laws, which impose civil fines for, among other things, the offering or transfer or remuneration to a Medicare or state healthcare program beneficiary if the person knows or should know it is likely to influence the beneficiarys selection of a particular provider, practitioner, or supplier of services reimbursable by Medicare or a state health care program, unless an exception applies; the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), which created additional federal criminal statutes that prohibit knowingly and willfully executing, or attempting to execute, a scheme to defraud any healthcare benefit program or obtain, by means of false or fraudulent pretenses, representations, or promises, any of the money or property owned by, or under the custody or control of, any healthcare benefit program, regardless of the payer (e.g., public or private) and knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up by any trick or device a material fact or making any materially false statements in connection with the delivery of, or payment for, healthcare benefits, items or services relating to healthcare matters. Similar to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute, a person or entity can be found guilty of violating HIPAA without actual knowledge of the statute or specific intent to violate it; HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (the HITECH Act), and their respective implementing regulations, impose requirements on certain covered healthcare providers, health plans, and healthcare clearinghouses as well as their respective business associates that perform services for them that involve the use, or disclosure of, individually identifiable health information, relating to the privacy, security and transmission of individually identifiable health information. The HITECH Act also created tiers of civil monetary penalties, amended HIPAA to make civil and criminal penalties directly applicable to business associates, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorneys fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions; the federal Physician Payments Sunshine Act and its implementing regulations require manufacturers of drugs, devices, biological and medical supplies for which payment is available under Medicare, Medicaid or the Childrens Health Insurance Program (with certain exceptions) to report annually to CMS, under the Open Payments Program, information related to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians (defined to include doctors, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists and chiropractors), physician assistants, nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, certified registered nurse anesthetists, and teaching hospitals, as well as ownership and investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members; and analogous state and foreign law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback and false claims laws which may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payer, including commercial insurers or patients; state laws that require device companies to comply with the industrys voluntary compliance guidelines and the applicable compliance guidance promulgated by the federal government or otherwise restrict payments that may be made to healthcare providers and other potential referral sources; state and local laws that require the licensure of sales representatives; state laws that require device manufacturers to report information related to payments and other transfers of value to physicians and other healthcare providers or marketing expenditures and pricing information; data privacy and security laws and regulations in foreign jurisdictions that may be more stringent than those in the United States (such as the European Union, which adopted the General Data Protection Regulation, which became effective in May 2018); state laws governing the privacy and security of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and may not have the same effect, thus complicating compliance efforts; and state laws related to insurance fraud in the case of claims involving private insurers. Because of the breadth of these laws, it is possible that some of our business activities could, despite efforts to comply, be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. Moreover, efforts to ensure that our business arrangements comply with applicable healthcare laws may involve substantial costs. It is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices may not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If any such actions are instituted against us, and we are not successful in defending ourselves or asserting our rights, those actions could have a significant impact on our business, including the imposition of significant civil, criminal and administrative penalties, damages, disgorgement, monetary fines, exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other federal healthcare programs, integrity and oversight agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, contractual damages, reputational harm, diminished profits and future earnings, and curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our results of operations. In addition, the commercialization of any of our products outside the United States will also likely subject us to foreign equivalents of the healthcare laws mentioned above, among other foreign laws. United States health care reform The commercial success of our products will depend in part on the extent to which governmental payor programs at the federal and state levels, including Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, and other third-party payors provide coverage for and establish adequate reimbursement levels for our products. In the United States, private health insurers and other third-party payors often provide reimbursement for products and services based on the level at which the government provides reimbursement through the Medicare or Medicaid programs for such products and services. The cost containment measures that payers and providers are instituting and the effect of any healthcare reform initiative implemented in the future could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of our products. Changes in healthcare policy, including changes in the implementation or the repeal of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (the ACA) in the United States, could increase our costs, decrease our revenue and impact sales of and reimbursement and coverage for our current and future products. Since its enactment, there have been judicial and Congressional challenges to certain aspects of the ACA. For example, in June 2021 the U.S. Supreme Court held that Texas and other challengers had no legal standing to challenge the ACA, dismissing the case on procedural grounds without specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the ACA. Thus, the ACA will remain in effect in its current form. It is possible that the ACA will be subject to judicial or Congressional challenges in the future. It is unclear how any such challenges and healthcare measures promulgated by the Trump administration will impact the ACA, our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal programs also impose price controls through mandatory ceiling prices on purchases by federal agencies and federally funded hospitals and clinics. These restrictions and limitations influence the purchase of healthcare services and products. Private payors often rely on the lead of the governmental payors in rendering coverage and reimbursement determinations. Therefore, achieving favorable CMS coverage and reimbursement is usually a significant gating issue for successful introduction of a new product. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement, and utilization, which may adversely affect our future product sales and results of operations. These pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, competition from other products, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid, and healthcare reform, and pricing in general. Sales of our product candidates will depend substantially, both domestically and abroad, on the extent to which the costs of our products will be paid by health maintenance, managed care, and similar healthcare management organizations, or reimbursed by government health administration authorities, such as Medicare and Medicaid, private health insurers, and other third-party payors. Adequate third-party reimbursement may not be available to enable us to maintain price levels sufficient to realize an appropriate return on our investment. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare or reduce costs under government insurance programs may result in lower reimbursement for our products or exclusion of our products from coverage. Foreign Medical Device Regulation In addition to regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulations governing clinical trials and commercial sales and distribution of our products in foreign countries. Regardless of the FDAs approval requirements for a particular product, we must obtain approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries before we can commence clinical trials or marketing of the product in those countries. The requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, product licensing, pricing and reimbursement vary greatly from country to country. European Union The European Union requires that manufacturers of medical devices obtain the right to bear the CE conformity marking which designates compliance with existing directives and standards regulating the design, manufacture and distribution of medical devices in member countries of the European Union. The rules for CE marking a product are set forth in the EU Medical Device Regulation (the EU MDR), which replaces the EU Medical Device Directive (the EU MDD). The EU MDR regulations were adopted with transitional periods that allow some products to rely on EU MDD certificates for a period of time. As a result of the EU MDR transition, some of our products are currently CE marked with EU MDD certificates. On February 10, 2025, we received our CE certificate from our notified body for our Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal products, finalizing our transition to EU MDR. We currently have no regulatory restrictions on importation of our Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal products into Europe. As of December 31, 2024, our EksoNR products continue to bear a CE mark and certificates which were obtained under EU MDD regulations. Under EU MDR rules, we can continue to place these products on the market until December 31, 2028, provided that we adhere to certain restrictions. These restrictions include: (i) not making any substantial changes to the products prior to EU MDR certification, (ii) implementing certain EU MDR requirements immediately, and (iii) applying for an EU MDR conformity assessment and having a quality management system in place by May 26, 2024 and signing a written agreement with a notified body by September 26, 2024. As of December 31, 2024, all of those conditions have been met. Our application for EU MDR with our notified body is currently pending technical review. 7 Table of Contents Regulatory requirements in the United Kingdom (UK) are also changing as a result of Brexit (the UKs withdrawal from the EU), and regulatory requirements in Switzerland are changing as a result of the countrys withdrawal from its Mutual Recognition Agreement with the EU Commission. Complying with the EU MDR and the evolving regulatory regimes in the UK and Switzerland require modifications to our quality management systems, additional resources in certain functions and updates to technical files, among other changes. Other countries Regulations in other countries, including the requirements for approvals, certification, or clearance and the time required for regulatory review, vary by country. Certain countries, such as Australia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Canada, and others have their own regulatory agencies. These countries typically require regulatory approvals and compliance that we comply with either directly or through distribution partners. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in any foreign country in which we market our products, or failure to comply with any regulation in any foreign country in which we market our products, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenue and harm our business. The policies of the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities may change, and additional government regulations may be enacted which could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our products and could also increase the cost of regulatory compliance. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse governmental regulation that might arise from future legislative or administrative action, either in the U.S. or abroad. Competition The medical technology and industrial robotics industries are characterized by intense competition and rapid technological change. Specifically, exoskeleton technology remains in its early stages. As this field develops, we believe that we will face increased competition on the basis of product features, critical outcomes, price, services and other factors. Our competitive position will depend on multiple, complex factors, including our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. There are a number of other companies that are developing competitive technology and devices related to our Enterprise Health and Personal Health products. Enterprise Health For our Enterprise Health products, we face competition from products that target lower extremity gait therapy, ambulation, and rehabilitation in IRF, LTACH, skilled nursing facility, and outpatient rehabilitation clinic settings. While there are multiple ways to perform lower extremity rehabilitation in these settings, the primary competitive alternative to our products remains traditional, non-robotic therapy by a licensed physical therapist. There are also other mechanical or robotic therapy devices, including treadmills, track-based weight support systems, end-effector devices and other exoskeletons. We believe the clinical evidence supports our claims that using Ekso devices for lower extremity rehabilitation can result in better clinical outcomes for the patient and can help avoid or prevent fatigue and injuries to physical therapists. Personal Health For our Personal Health products, which are intended to provide overground mobility for physically impaired users in a home and community setting, we face competition primarily from manual or powered wheelchairs and other traditional mobility aids. We also face competition from other lower extremity exoskeleton devices, although we believe that few of these devices have been cleared by the FDA or other regulators for home and/or community use. Clinical evidence shows that compared to traditional mobility aids, exoskeleton solutions, including our devices, can provide better outcomes for certain SCI users by reducing comorbidities. Comorbidities that have been shown to benefit from exoskeleton use include improved bowl and bladder function, cardiorespiratory health, pain and spasticity, among others. Compared to other exoskeletons in this market, we believe that our products have several advantages, including low weight, modularity, wheelchair compatibility and potentially faster maximum walking speeds. Supply of Components Our EksoNR device is currently manufactured at our facility in San Rafael, California. Our Ekso Indego Therapy, Ekso Indego Personal and Ekso Nomad devices are currently manufactured at our facility in Brecksville, Ohio, though by the end of the second quarter of 2025, we expect to complete the transfer of all final assembly of such devices at our facility in San Rafael, California as well. We currently run one shift per day at both of our facilities and believe we have the capacity to eventually run additional shifts should we deem it appropriate. By the end of the first quarter of 2025, we expect to complete the transfer of partial production of our Ekso Indego Personal and Ekso Indego Therapy products to a third-party contract manufacturing partner located in the USA. EVO products are manufactured by a third-party contract manufacturing partner in Malaysia. 8 Table of Contents As part of our manufacturing process, we purchase both custom and off-the-shelf components from a large number of suppliers and subject them to stringent quality specifications and processes. Whenever possible, we seek to secure dual source suppliers for our components. Some of the components necessary for the assembly of our products are currently provided to us by single-sourced suppliers (the only approved supply source for us among other sources). We purchase the majority of our components and major assemblies through purchase orders rather than long-term supply agreements and do not generally plan to hold finished goods inventory in excess of our anticipated demand. Research and Development We focus our engineering and research and development efforts on both improvement to existing products and services and new products and services that align with our strategy. We believe that by investing in innovation we can expand the number of individuals whose lives are improved by the use of our products. We subscribe to a customer-focused approach to new product development, wherein we use customer feedback and suggestions to inform development plans. Areas our engineering and research and development teams target for improvement include enhanced functionality, improved reliability and uptime, and lower cost, among others. Intellectual Property We have established an extensive intellectual property portfolio that includes various U.S. patents and patent applications. The table below provides a summary of U.S. patents by issuing status and ownership status as of December 31, 2024. Issuing Status Issued Pending License Status Patents Applications Non-Exclusively licensed to the Company 3 Exclusively licensed to the Company 14 1 Co-owned with a third party, exclusively licensed to the Company 4 Co-owned with a third party 3 Sole ownership by the Company 53 4 Total 77 5 Pending applications mean a complete application has been filed with the applicable patent authority and additional action is pending. Many of these applications have also been filed internationally as appropriate for their respective subject matter. As of December 31, 2024, 277 applications have issued or have been allowed as patents internationally. Our patent portfolio contains 282 cases that have issued or are in prosecution in 22 countries outside the U.S. Our patent portfolio includes product and method type claims, since the devices that we produce and the processes performed by those devices are patentable. Our patents encompass technologies relevant to our devices, including medical exoskeletons, commercial exoskeletons, actuators, and strength-enhancing exoskeletons. The earliest priority date of the portfolio reaches back to 2003, and new applications may continue to be filed from time-to-time. 9 Table of Contents Licensors include the Regents of the University of California, or UC Berkeley, and Vanderbilt University. The license with UC Berkeley consists of two agreements and one amendment to the agreement covering ten patent cases exclusively licensed to us, nine of which have issued and one of which remains in prosecution. Inventions covered by a further three patent applications are co-owned by us and UC Berkeley, with no license agreement between us and UC Berkeley. As a result, UC Berkeley may license its rights in these patents to a third party. With respect to two of these co-owned patent applications, UC Berkeley has licensed their rights in the U.S. to an unrelated third party. The third patent application will need to be fully prosecuted before it can be determined which claims are exclusive to us (through a previous license) and which claims UC Berkeley may license to other entities. Pursuant to the UC Berkeley License Agreements, we are required to pay a 1% royalty on sales, including sales generated by sublicenses. In addition, the UC Berkeley License Agreements call for minimum annual payments of $50,000. We do not pay royalties to UC Berkeley on products sold or to be resold to the U.S. government. As part of the acquisition from Parker Hannifin Corporation of certain assets related to Parker Hannifin Corporation's Human Motion Control (HMC) business, and software applications, support services and cloud environments related to such business in December 2022 (the "HMC Acquisition"), we are acquired and assumed certain intangible assets including license agreements with Vanderbilt University. On October 15, 2012, Parker entered a license agreement (Exoskeleton License Agreement) with Vanderbilt University and was granted exclusive license within the HMC field of use to specific licensed patents and licensed software by paying a non-refundable, non-creditable license issue fee and running royalties. Subsequently, Parker entered three amendments with Vanderbilt University and was granted license to additional patents and software from 2014 to 2019 by paying license issue fee and running royalties. The royalties were set to be calculated at 6% of Net Sales for Licensed Patent Products (or a minimum of $250,000) and 3% of Net Sales for Licensed Software products. On March 1, 2022, Parker entered a license agreement (P-H Knee License Agreement) with Vanderbilt University and was granted exclusive license to specific licensed patents, licensed software and copyrightable technical information by paying a non-refundable, non-creditable license issue fee and running royalties. Included in this agreement was the right to sublicense beginning in March 2024. We will pay Vanderbilt $100,000 as the second of two payments due April 30, 2023. In addition, royalties were set to be calculated at 3.75% of net sales of the licensed product. Beginning July 1, 2027, minimum annual royalties will be set at $75,000 (for the 12 month period through June 30, 2028) and $100,000 for each 12 month period thereafter. In addition to the aforementioned agreements, various other subsidized research and development agreements have been entered into with Vanderbilt covering specific work product as articulated in those documents. In some cases, as a result of government funding we receive, our patents have a government use license, granting the U.S. government a non-exclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license for use of the inventions for or on behalf of the U.S. government, as is typical in the case of government sponsored research. In addition, we entered into a license agreement in December of 2021 with a third party that develops technologies having utility in robotic exoskeletons from research and development activities associated with a specific set of government funded research projects. Commencing in January 2022, we assisted with research and development activities in exchange for access to a worldwide, royalty free, transferable, sublicensable, exclusive license to design and market products that use or incorporate the jointly-developed technology within our target market segments. Intellectual Property Out-Licensing In June 2020, we entered into a non-exclusive license agreement with HAWE Hydraulik of Germany ("HAWE") for rights to develop hydraulic pumps covered by a family of our patents. The agreement additionally includes an exclusivity option. In January 2025, HAWE notified us that they are not moving forward with the technology and therefore were terminating the license agreement. We did not receive any royalty revenue from this license in the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, and do not expect to receive any royalty revenue from this license in the future. Clinical Evidence Numerous research studies have been conducted focusing on safety and feasibility of exoskeletons and robotics in rehabilitation. As of February 28, 2025, a search for robotic exoskeleton on PubMed, a search engine for biomedical literature and life science journal articles, garners approximately 367 unique publications. The full portfolio of currently available and legacy Ekso exoskeletons (EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal) have been utilized in many of these protocols. The body of research examines a wide variety of diagnoses including ABI, SCI, stroke, MS, and others. The findings of this research are overall positive and promote use of an Ekso exoskeleton in rehabilitation to provide patient outcomes that are equal to or superior to traditional physical therapy in both the inpatient and outpatient setting. Some of these outcomes include faster gait speed, increased gait endurance, improvements in cardiometabolic responses, enhanced quality of life, more typical gait kinematics, increased function, and therapy session duration. Human Capital Resources and Management As of February 28, 2025, we had 61 full-time employees and five part-time employees, including 55 employees in the United States, nine employees in Europe, and two in Singapore. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. We endeavor to maintain a workplace that is free from discrimination or harassment on the basis of color, race, sex, national origin, ethnicity, religion, age, disability, sexual orientation, gender identification or expression or any other status protected by applicable law. We conduct annual training to prevent harassment and discrimination and monitor employee conduct year-round, including by providing employees with access to an anonymous whistleblower hotline to report any violations. The basis for recruitment, hiring, development, training, compensation and advancement at the Company includes qualifications, performance, skills, and experience. We believe our employees are fairly compensated, without regard to gender, race and ethnicity, and routinely recognized for outstanding performance and are offered training and professional development opportunities. Our compensation program is designed to attract and retain talent. We continually assess and strive to enhance employee satisfaction and engagement. Corporate Information Our principal executive office is located at 101 Glacier Point, Suite A, San Rafael, California, 94901 and our telephone number is (510) 984-1761. We make available free of charge on or through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Our internet address is www.eksobionics.com. This website address is intended to be an inactive, textual reference only; none of the material on this website is part of this Annual Report. Copies of our annual reports on Form 10-K will be furnished without charge to any person who submits a written request directed to the attention of our Secretary, at our offices located at 101 Glacier Point, Suite A, San Rafael, California, 94901. The SEC maintains an internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. 10 Table of Contents Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K including the section titled Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and our consolidated financial statements and related notes, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects could also be harmed by risks and uncertainties that are not presently known to us or that we currently believe are not material. If any of the risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Summary of Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that you should consider before investing in our company, as fully described below. The principal factors and uncertainties that make investing in our company risky include, among others: If we fail to manage the complex and lengthy reimbursement process, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive and continue to develop, and important assumptions about the potential market for our current and future products may be inaccurate. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to produce our products at a satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, our business could be negatively impacted. Shortages in the materials used to manufacture our products and supply chain disruptions, including as a result of changes in trade policies, could impact our future results. Coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, including Medicare or Medicaid, may impact sales of our products. The acquisition and integration of other companies, businesses, or technologies could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We may not be able to enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts. We have incurred significant losses to date and anticipate continuing to incur losses in the future, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. Our loan agreement imposes certain financial and operational restrictions on us, limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. Protecting our intellectual proprietary rights can be costly, and our success in doing so is not certain. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for our medical device products, or if clearances or approvals for future products or modifications to existing products are delayed or not issued, our commercial operations would be harmed. Modifications to our current and our future products may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. Our failure to meet strict post-market regulatory requirements with respect to our products could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. If we do not regain compliance with or continue to satisfy the Nasdaq continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq. Business and Operational Risks 11 Table of Contents If we fail to manage the complex and lengthy reimbursement process, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. The sale of our Personal Health products primarily depends on reimbursements provided by third party payors. We distribute these products to end users through the VA hospitals. Our products are also distributed through DME suppliers, who will then pursue reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, or private insurance providers. Our financial condition and results of operations have been affected by coverage and reimbursement policies of these payors, which are also subject to change over time. The reimbursement process is complex and can involve lengthy delays between the time that a product is delivered to the consumer and the time that the reimbursement amounts are settled. Depending on the payor, we or our customers have been required to obtain certain payor-specific documentation from physicians and other healthcare providers before submitting claims for reimbursement. Certain payors have filing deadlines and they will not pay claims submitted after such time. We have been subject to extensive pre-payment, and may be subject post-payment, audits by governmental and private payors that have resulted in material delays and may result in refunds of monies received or denials of claims submitted for payment under such third-party payor programs and contracts. Operating within the CMS reimbursement environment was new to us. Our DME submitted the first Ekso Indego Personal CMS reimbursement claim in May 2024, which claim was reimbursed in July 2024. All other ongoing CMS reimbursement claims for our devices are currently being managed through the appeals process. During the pendency of such appeals, we decided to put a hold on selling devices to DMEs for CMS reimbursement, instead focusing on refining and improving the CMS reimbursement process for our devices, naming National Seating & Mobility as the Companys exclusive distributor of the Ekso Indego Personal device within the U.S. complex rehabilitation technology industry, ramping up pilots and partnerships with both regional and national DME suppliers, and building up a sales backlog for the Ekso Indego Personal device. At the end of February 2025, we had approximately 25 people who we believe qualify for reimbursement. We anticipate submitting those claims to CMS over the next six to nine months, though we expect our processes and procedures to continue to be refined as we work to scale up this sales channel over time. While we believe we have improved the CMS reimbursement processes in respect of the Ekso Indego Personal devices, such efforts may be unsuccessful, as the CMS and similar reimbursement processes are complex and we have no guarantees of success for any existing or future claims, and any claim, even if successful, may be materially delayed. The markets in which our products are sold are highly competitive and continue to develop, and important assumptions about the potential market for our current and future products may be inaccurate. We face competition within the medical devices and industrial robotics markets on the basis of product features, clinical outcomes, price, services and other factors. Our competitive position will depend on multiple, complex factors, including our ability to achieve market acceptance for our products, develop new products, implement production and marketing plans, secure regulatory approvals for products under development and protect our intellectual property. Competitors may offer, or may attempt to develop, more efficacious, safer, cheaper, or more convenient alternatives to our products, including alternatives that could make the need for robotic exoskeletons obsolete. The entry into the market of manufacturers located in low-cost manufacturing locations may also create pricing pressure, particularly in developing markets. Our future success depends, among other things, upon our ability to compete effectively against current technology, as well as to respond effectively to technological advances, and upon our ability to successfully implement our marketing strategies and execute our research and development plan. If customers do not perceive our product offerings to be of value or to be easy and comfortable to use, we may not be able to attract and retain customers. If we are unable to successfully retain existing customers and attract new customers and achieve volume sales of our products, our business, prospects, financial condition and operating results will be materially and adversely affected. Our business strategy is based, in part, on our estimates of the number of individuals with physical limitations and disability, and it considers the occurrence of strokes, TBIs, SCIs and MS in our target markets and the percentage of those groups that would be able to use our current and future products. Limited sources exist to obtain reliable market data with respect to the number of mobility-impaired individuals and the occurrences of ABIs, SCIs and strokes in our target markets. In addition, we are not aware of any third-party reports or studies regarding the percentage of patients with limited mobility and/or SCIs who are able to use exoskeletons, in general, or our current or planned future products, in particular. Our assumptions regarding our addressable markets may be inaccurate and may change. If our estimates of our current or future addressable market are incorrect, our business may not develop as we expect, and the price of our common stock may suffer. Furthermore, the markets for medical and industrial robotic exoskeletons are continuing to develop. We cannot be certain that the markets for robotic exoskeletons will continue to develop as we expect, or that robotic exoskeletons for medical or industrial use will achieve widespread market acceptance. Additionally, the development of new or improved products, processes or technologies by other companies may render our products or proposed products less competitive or obsolete. The use of robotic devices is not universally accepted in the rehabilitation community and may never be. Current or future clinical trials and studies may not provide sufficient data that the rehabilitation community interprets to support the use of exoskeletons in rehabilitation. Any of these outcomes could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results and prospects. If we or our third-party manufacturers are unable to produce our products at a satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, our business could be negatively impacted. In order to reduce manufacturing costs, we intend to transition a significant amount of our manufacturing processes to third parties. Reliance on third parties to manufacture our products presents significant risks to us, including the potential that manufacturing costs may be higher than if we had kept manufacturing in house, as well as risks of reduced control over delivery schedules and product reliability, manufacturing deviations from internal and regulatory specifications, failure of a manufacturer to perform its obligations to us for technical, market or other reasons, misappropriation of our intellectual property, and other risks in meeting schedules and satisfying requirements of our customers. 12 Table of Contents We have not entered into any long-term manufacturing or supply agreements for any of our products, and we may need to enter into additional agreements for the commercial development, manufacturing and sale of our products. There can be no assurance that we can do so on favorable terms, if at all. Our products have been produced in quantities, and on timelines, sufficient to meet commercial demand and for us to satisfy our delivery schedules. However, our dependence upon others for the production of a portion of our products, or for a portion of the manufacturing process, may adversely affect our ability to satisfy demand, as well as to develop and commercialize new products, on a timely and competitive basis. If manufacturing capacity is reduced or eliminated at one or more of our third-party manufacturers facilities, we could have difficulties fulfilling our customer orders, which could adversely affect customer relationships, and our net revenues and results of operations could decline. Shortages in the materials used to manufacture our products and supply chain disruptions, including as a result of changes in trade policies, could impact our future results. Due to a variety of factors, various materials we and the third-party manufacturers we rely on use to manufacture our products are currently, or may in the future, experience shortages and supply chain disruptions, including from shipping delays. Electronic components in general, battery cells, metals and plastics, all of which we use in our products, have, in the recent past, been in shorter supply compared to prior periods. Numerous factors, such as conflicts in the Middle East and Europe or further trade tensions between the United States and China, may prolong or deepen these challenges. Our operating results may be negatively impacted if global supply chains of semiconductors and other important commodities recur in the future. Additionally, we may experience shortages and supply chain disruptions as a result of changes in domestic and international trade policies, including the imposition of higher tariffs on imports from various countries from which we procure raw materials and components to support the manufacturing and sale of our products, as well as retaliatory tariffs imposed by other countries. These tariffs could lead to increased costs for raw materials and components, which may not be fully passed on to our customers, thereby reducing our profit margins. Additionally, retaliatory tariffs could adversely affect our export sales. Such changes in trade policies may lead to supply chain disruptions and material shortages, which could adversely affect our financial results. The uncertainty surrounding future trade policies and potential further tariff increases could also impact our strategic planning and investment decisions. We may need to adjust our sourcing strategies, explore alternative suppliers or consider other international contract manufacturer partners, all of which could cause us to incur substantial costs and face operational challenges. Furthermore, prolonged trade tensions and the potential for a trade war could lead to broader economic instability, affecting consumer confidence and demand for our products. We are actively monitoring developments in trade policies and are prepared to take necessary actions to mitigate these risks, but there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. Coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, including Medicare or Medicaid, may impact sales of our products. To the extent that the adoption of our products by our customers is dependent in the future on their ability to obtain adequate reimbursement for the products or treatments provided using our product from third-party payers, including government payors such as Medicare and Medicaid, managed care organizations and commercial payors, the coverage policies and reimbursement levels of these third-party payers may impact the decisions of healthcare providers, facilities, or end users to purchase our products or the prices they would be willing to pay for those products. Reimbursement rates could also affect the acceptance rates of new technologies. We have no control over these factors. In the United States, the principal decisions about reimbursement for new medical products are typically made by CMS. CMS decides whether and to what extent a new product will be covered and reimbursed under Medicare and private payors tend to follow CMS to a substantial degree. Because there is no uniform policy of coverage and reimbursement in the United States, each payor generally determines for its own enrollees or insured patients whether to cover or otherwise establish a policy to reimburse our diagnostic tests, and seeking payor approvals is a time-consuming and costly process. Our business plan related to our Ekso Indego Personal product depends in a large part on sales of our Ekso Indego Personal product to individuals with SCI who are covered by third-party payers, including Medicare or Medicaid. If CMS delays or cancels reimbursement decisions, or materially changes the reimbursement level it has set, our ability to sell into this market may be diminished. In addition, the policies affecting the implementation of individual reimbursement decisions are made by regional DME MACs. Certain policies are not yet known to us and may affect the number of individual purchases that are approved to receive reimbursement in the future. In addition, we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage beyond CMS. We cannot be certain that coverage for our current and our planned future products will be provided in the future by additional payors or that existing agreements, policy decisions or reimbursement levels will remain in place, remain adequate, or be fulfilled under existing terms and provisions. If we cannot obtain coverage and adequate reimbursement from private and governmental payors such as Medicare and Medicaid for our current products or new products that we may develop in the future, demand for such products may decline or may not grow as we expect, which could limit our ability to generate revenue and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The coverage and reimbursement market may be additionally impacted by future legislative changes. There are increasing efforts by governmental and third-party payors in the United States and abroad to cap or reduce healthcare costs which may cause such organizations to limit both coverage and the level of reimbursement for newly approved products and, as a result, they may not cover or provide adequate payment for our products. Specifically, there have been several recent U.S. presidential executive orders, Congressional inquiries, and proposed and enacted federal and state legislation designed to, among other things, bring more transparency to drug and medical device pricing, reduce the cost under Medicare, review the relationship between pricing and manufacturer patient programs, and reform government program reimbursement methodologies. We expect to experience pricing pressures in connection with the sale of any of our products due to the trend toward managed healthcare, the increasing influence of health maintenance organizations, cost containment initiatives and additional legislative changes. The acquisition and integration of other companies, businesses, or technologies could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We may selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, any of which could be material to our business, operating results, and financial condition. Future acquisitions could divert managements time and focus from operating our business. In addition, integrating an acquired company, business or technology is risky and may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into our organization and integrating each companys accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management. The anticipated benefits of future acquisitions may not materialize, including our ability to expand our product offerings as a result of overlap in the addressable market for our existing products and the addressable market for products we may acquire. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill and intangible assets, any of which could harm our financial condition. Future acquisitions may also require us to obtain additional financing, which may not be available on favorable terms or at all. 13 Table of Contents We may not be able to enhance our product offerings through our research and development efforts. In order to increase our sales and our market share in the exoskeleton market, we continue to invest in our research and development efforts and product offerings in response to the evolving demands of people with lower extremity impairment, other medical conditions and healthcare providers, as well as competitive technologies. We may decide to invest our business development resources in partnerships, licensing agreements, business acquisition, distribution arrangements, and other ways that will provide us new product offerings without significant research and development activities. We may not be successful in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, or marketing our currently proposed products, or our approved products for additional indications, products proposed to be created in the future or products that will be available for us through business acquisitions and distribution arrangements. In addition, notwithstanding our market research efforts, our future products may not be accepted by consumers, their caregivers, healthcare providers or third-party payors who reimburse consumers for our products. The success of any proposed product offerings will depend on numerous factors, including our ability to: identify the product features that people with lower extremity impairment, their caregivers, and healthcare providers are seeking in a medical device that restores mobility and successfully incorporate those features into our products; identify the product features that people with lower extremity impairment or other similar indications require while the products are used at home as well as what items are valuable to the clinics that provide them rehabilitation; develop and introduce proposed products in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner; adequately protect our intellectual property and avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of third-parties; demonstrate the safety, efficacy, and health benefits of proposed products; and obtain the necessary regulatory clearances and approvals for proposed products. If we fail to generate demand by developing products that incorporate features desired by consumers, their caregivers or healthcare providers, or if we do not obtain regulatory clearance or approval for proposed products in time to meet market demand, we may fail to generate sales sufficient to achieve or maintain profitability. We have in the past experienced, and we may in the future experience, delays in various phases of product development, including during research and development, manufacturing, limited release testing, marketing, and customer education efforts. Such delays could cause customers to delay or forgo purchases of our products, or to purchase our competitors products. Even if we are able to successfully develop proposed products when anticipated, these products may not produce sales in excess of the costs of development, and they may be quickly rendered obsolete by changing consumer preferences or the introduction by our competitors of products embodying new technologies or features. We will experience long and variable sales cycles. The EksoNR and Ekso Indego Therapy products have a lengthy sale and purchase order cycle because it is a major capital expenditure item and generally requires the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. Ekso Indego Personal likewise can have a long sales cycle due to the complexity of the sales channel and lengthy approval process by CMS contractors. Such delays may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. International sales of our products are subject to factors outside of our control. Our business currently depends in part on our activities in the EMEA, APAC, and other foreign markets. Our international activities are subject to a number of risks inherent in selling and operating abroad, including failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection against infringement of our intellectual property rights; protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors, which could slow our growth in international markets; the expense of establishing facilities and operations in new foreign markets; building an organization capable of supporting geographically dispersed operations; challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; challenges caused by differences in legal regulations, markets, and customer preferences, which may limit our ability to adapt our products or succeed in other regions; multiple, conflicting, and changing laws and regulations, including complications due to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, foreign laws, tax schemes, international import and export legislation, trading and investment policies, exchange controls and tariff and other trade barriers; foreign tax consequences; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and foreign currency translation adjustments; foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating income earned outside the United States; imposition of public sector controls; differing payer reimbursement regimes, governmental payers or patient self-pay systems and price controls; political, economic and social instability; and restrictions on the export or import of technology. In addition, policy changes that result in increased international sales may not continue or may increase cyclicality of our sales cycles. For example, [due to local policy changes,] we saw increased sales in France in 2024. Such increased sales are expected to be limited to 2024 and future periods when such devices may be replaced in the future, to the extent [such policy changes] remain in effect. We may never complete the development of any of our proposed products or product improvements into marketable products. We do not know when or whether we will successfully complete the development of the planned development-stage or next generation exoskeletal technologies, or any other proposed, developmental, or contemplated product for any of our target markets. We continue to seek to improve our technologies before we are able to produce a commercially viable product. For example, we have developed and are continuing to evaluate our Nomad product in the clinical setting. While we expect to begin broadly selling the Nomad product beginning in 2026, we may be unsuccessful in our clinical efforts or receive negative patient feedback, which may delay such rollout or result in us abandoning the Nomad product altogether. Failure to improve any of our technologies could delay or prevent their successful development for any of our target markets. Developing any technology into a marketable product is a risky, time-consuming and expensive process. You should anticipate that we will encounter setbacks, discrepancies requiring time-consuming and costly redesigns and changes and that there is the possibility of outright failure. We may not meet our product development, manufacturing, regulatory, commercialization and other milestones. We have historically relied, and in the future may rely, on sales of our EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal for a significant portion of our revenue. We currently rely, and in the future will rely, on sales of our EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal for a large portion of our revenue. These products are relatively new, and market acceptance and adoption depends on educating people with lower extremity impairment, physical therapists and other clinicians as to the distinct features, ease-of-use, improved quality of life and other benefits when compared to alternative therapies. These products may not be perceived to have sufficient potential benefits compared with their alternatives. In addition, physical therapists and other clinicians may be slow to change their treatment practices because of perceived liability risks arising from the use of new products. Accordingly, physical therapists and other clinicians may not recommend these products until there is sufficient evidence to convince them to alter the treatment methods they typically recommend. Such evidence may include endorsements from prominent healthcare providers or other key leaders in the lower extremity impairment and neurological impairment communities attesting to the effectiveness of these products in providing identifiable immediate and long-term quality of life benefits, and the publication of peer-reviewed clinical studies demonstrating their value. Any factors that negatively impact sales of these products would adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. 14 Table of Contents We rely on independent distributors for the sale and marketing of our products in certain geographies. In non-German-speaking countries in Europe, other countries in EMEA, and countries in APAC except Singapore, we rely on independent distributors to distribute and assist us with the marketing and sale of our products. These distributors are our principal customers, and revenue growth will depend in large part on our success in establishing and maintaining this sales and distribution channel. If any of our key independent distributors were to cease to distribute our products, our sales could be adversely affected. Further, our independent distributors fail to comply with their regulatory requirements, that could prevent them from marketing and selling our products. In such situations, we may need to seek alternative independent distributors or increase our reliance on our other independent distributors or our direct sales representatives, which may not prevent our sales from being adversely affected. Our success depends on our management team, and on our ability to hire, train, retain, and motivate employees. Our success depends on our management team and on our ability to identify, hire, train and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel. Any significant leadership change and accompanying senior management transition, and the hiring of other new leaders in key roles, involves inherent risk and any failure to ensure a smooth transition could hinder our strategic planning, execution and future performance. In addition, as we introduce new products or services, we will need to hire additional personnel. Competition for personnel with the required knowledge, skill and experiences has, from time to time, been intense, particularly in the San Francisco Bay area, where we are headquartered, and we may not be able to attract, assimilate or retain such personnel. The inability to attract and retain the necessary managerial, technical and sales and marketing personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Shutdowns of the U.S. federal government could materially impair our business and financial condition. Development of our product candidates or regulatory approval may be delayed for reasons beyond our control. For example, in 2018 and 2019 the U.S. government shut down several times and certain regulatory agencies, such as the FDA and the SEC, had to furlough critical FDA, SEC, and other government employees and stop critical activities. [Also, if the U.S. government cannot reach a new spending agreement by March 14, 2025, the U.S. government will shut down again.] If a prolonged government shutdown or budget sequestration occurs, it could significantly impact the ability of the FDA to timely review and process our regulatory submissions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, while CMS reimbursement is considered an essential service and is thus less likely to be affected, other administrative functions within CMS could be affected, including as a result of the executive and congressional branches of the U.S. government being unable to reach a resolution on the deployment of the federal governments funds]. Further, in our operations as a public company, future government shutdowns could impact our ability to access the public markets, such as through the declaration of effectiveness of registration statements and obtain necessary capital in order to properly capitalize and continue our operations. Damage to our brand and reputation could have an adverse effect on our business and financial performance. One of our largest assets is the value of our brands, which is directly linked to our reputation. We must protect our reputation in order to continue to be successful and to grow the value of our brands. Negative publicity directed at any of our brands, regardless of factual basis, such as, relating to product quality, service quality, customer complaints or litigation alleging deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture of our products, adverse events made to the FDA under the Manufacturer and User Facility Device Experience Database relating to any of our products, or any other adverse event involving our products, any failure to comply with applicable regulations or standards, allegations of harassment, or other negative publicity, could damage our reputation. Negative publicity about us could harm our reputation and damage the value of our brands, which could materially and adversely affect our financial performance. We may not be able to reduce the cost to manufacture or service our products as planned. Our business plan assumes that exoskeletons can be manufactured more inexpensively than they are currently being manufactured. However, we have not yet found a way to significantly reduce the manufacturing cost of our products and doing so may prove more difficult than expected or even impossible. For example, if expectations for greater functionality of the products drive costs up as other factors drive costs down, the result may be that the overall cost of manufacturing the product stays the same or even increases. Likewise, we currently provide service and support of our products for our customers at a high standard (both in and out of warranty), and plan on continuing to do so. Our business plan also assumes that as we continue to improve our product, we achieve improved levels of product reliability and decreased service cost and frequency, which also may prove more difficult than expected. Financial & Accounting Risks We have incurred significant losses to date and anticipate continuing to incur losses in the future, and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have thus far been largely dependent on capital raised through the sale of equity securities in various public and private offerings, and we have incurred losses in each fiscal year since our incorporation in 2005. Our net losses were $11.3 million and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively. As of December 31, 2024 and 2023, we had an accumulated deficit of $250.5 million and $239.2 million, respectively. The operation of our business and our growth efforts will require significant cash outlays to support our operations. We believe we have sufficient resources to operate for the foreseeable future based upon our current cash resources, expected rate of cash to be used for operations assuming modest increases in current revenue and operating expenses remaining flat, and cash required to satisfy debt obligations. However, unless we are able to generate significant revenues from sales, we will not be able to achieve or maintain profitability in the near future or at all, and we will remain largely dependent on capital raised from past and future financings to implement our business plan, support our operations and service our debt obligations. Our lack of profitability may depress our stock price, and if we are unable to become profitable, we may be required to reduce the scope of our business development activities, which could harm our business plans, financial condition and operating results, or to cease our operations entirely. Our loan agreement imposes certain financial and operational restrictions on us, limiting the discretion of our management in operating our business. Our loan agreement with Banc of California, which we entered into in August 2020 (the "BoC Loan Agreement"), contains, subject to certain carve-outs, various restrictive covenants that limit our management's discretion in operating our business. In particular, these instruments limit our ability to, among other things, hold cash outside Banc of California, incur additional debt, grant liens on assets, sell or acquire assets outside the ordinary course of business, pay dividends and make certain fundamental business changes. Our obligations, which become due in August 2026, are also secured by a security interest in all of our assets, exclusive of intellectual property. As a result, we may need to use our capital resources to repay the BoC Loan in order to undertake certain financing or strategic transactions. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations and operate our business. As described in Note 9. Notes Payable, net to the consolidated financial statements, we have material near-term indebtedness due to the BoC Loan Agreement and the $5 million unsecured, subordinated promissory note (the Promissory Note) we delivered to Parker Hannifin Corporation in connection with the HMC Acquisition. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash. While we anticipate that we will have adequate cash resources to fund our operations and satisfy our debt obligations, our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control and our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities. Our ability to make payments on, and refinance, our debt and fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control, including rising interest rates. 16 Table of Contents We cannot assure our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to fund our liquidity needs. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to service our indebtedness, we may be forced to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets or product lines, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. We might not be able to continue as a going concern. Our audited consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2024 have been prepared under the assumption that we will continue as a going concern for the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2024, we had cash and restricted cash of $6.5 million and an accumulated deficit of $250.5 million. We do not believe that our cash and restricted cash are sufficient to fund our operations for the next 12 months. We will need to increase revenues substantially beyond levels that we have attained in the past in order to generate sustainable operating profit and sufficient cash flows to continue doing business without raising additional capital from time to time. As a result of our expected operating losses and cash burn for the foreseeable future and recurring losses from operations, if we are unable to raise sufficient capital through additional debt or equity arrangements, there will be uncertainty regarding our ability to maintain liquidity sufficient to operate our business effectively, which raises substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern. If we cannot continue as a viable entity, our stockholders would likely lose most or all of their investment in us. If we are unable to generate sustainable operating profit and sufficient cash flows, then our future success will depend on our ability to raise capital. We are seeking additional financing and evaluating financing alternatives in order to meet our cash requirements for the next 12 months. We cannot be certain that raising additional capital, whether through selling additional debt or equity securities or obtaining a line of credit or other loan, will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms acceptable to us. If we issue additional securities to raise funds, these securities may have rights, preferences, or privileges senior to those of our common stock, and our current stockholders may experience dilution. If we are unable to obtain funds when needed or on acceptable terms, we may be required to curtail our current product development programs, cut operating costs, forego future development and other opportunities or even terminate our operations. We may not be able to leverage our cost structure or achieve better margins. Due to the early-stage customer adoption of our products, our current sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses are each a higher percentage of sales than they will need to be for us to reach profitability. While we do expect these expenses to grow as our business grows, we also expect these expenses to decline as a percentage of revenues over time. If we are unable to leverage these costs and grow revenues at a greater pace than these operating expenses as we expect, we will not be able to achieve viable operating margins and profitability. We could fail to maintain effective internal control over our financial reporting. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include in our annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. While we believe that the policies, processes and procedures we have put in place will be sufficient to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, our initiatives may not prove successful. If so, management may not be able to conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. This could result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could negatively affect the price of our common stock. In addition, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404. Our compliance with Section 404 may require that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. 17 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Risks Protecting our intellectual proprietary rights can be costly, and our success in doing so is not certain. Our long-term success largely depends on our ability to market technologically competitive products. Failure to protect or to obtain, maintain or extend adequate patent and other intellectual property rights could have a material adverse impact on our competitive advantage and impair our business. Our issued patents may not be sufficient to protect our intellectual property and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Even if our patent applications issue as patents, they may not issue in a form that will provide us with any meaningful protection, prevent competitors from competing with us or otherwise provide us with any competitive advantage. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents by developing similar or alternative technologies or products in a non-infringing manner or may challenge the validity of our patents. Our attempts to prevent third parties from circumventing our intellectual property and other rights ultimately may be unsuccessful. We may also fail to take the required actions or pay the necessary fees to maintain any of our patents that issue. Furthermore, we have not filed applications for all of our inventions internationally and may not be able to prevent third parties from using our proprietary technologies or may lose access to technologies critical to our products in other countries. These include, in some cases, countries in which we are currently selling products and countries in which we intend to sell products in the future. Intellectual property litigation and infringement claims could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling certain of our products. The industries in which we operate, including, in particular, the medical device industry, are characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation and, from time to time, we might be the subject of claims by third parties of potential infringement or misappropriation. Regardless of outcome, such claims are expensive to defend and divert the time and effort of our management and operating personnel from other business issues. A successful claim or claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could result in our payment of significant monetary damages and/or royalty payments or negatively impact our ability to sell current or future products in the affected category and could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. Because competition in our industry is intense, competitors may infringe or otherwise violate our issued patents, patents of our licensors or other intellectual property. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. Any claims we assert against perceived infringers could provoke these parties to assert counterclaims against us alleging that we infringe their patents. In addition, in a patent infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is invalid or unenforceable, in whole or in part, construe the patents claims narrowly, or refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. We may also elect to enter into license agreements in order to settle patent infringement claims or to resolve disputes prior to litigation, and any such license agreements may require us to pay royalties and other fees that could be significant. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure. Some of the patents and patent applications in the intellectual property portfolio are not within our complete control, which could reduce the value of such patents. Some of our U.S. patents (which have associated international patents and applications) that cover our commercial products are co-owned by UC Berkeley. UC Berkeley has exclusively licensed its rights under many of these patents to us, but we do not have an exclusive license to UC Berkeleys rights under three of these patents. UC Berkeley has licensed their U.S. rights in two of these three co-owned patents to an unrelated third-party. The third patent is a continuation-in-part of a patent that UC Berkeley has licensed to us. Under the terms of the relevant license agreement between us and UC Berkeley, we have exclusive rights to any claims that are fully supported by the specification in the parent application. However, any claims that are not based on the specification in the parent application are co-owned by UC Berkeley and us, and UC Berkeleys rights in respect of such claims are not exclusively licensed to us. There is no assurance that we will be able to obtain a license to UC Berkeleys rights in any such claims on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and UC Berkeley may choose to license its rights to third parties instead of us. 18 Table of Contents If we fail to comply with our obligations in the agreements under which we license intellectual property rights from third-parties or otherwise experience disruptions to our business relationships with our licensors, we could lose intellectual property rights that are important to our business. We are a party to two exclusive license agreements with UC Berkeley, covering ten patents exclusively licensed to us. In addition, we are party to two license agreements with Vanderbilt University. We may also need to obtain additional licenses from others to advance our research and development activities or allow the commercialization of our devices or any other devices we may identify and pursue. Our license agreements with UC Berkeley and Vanderbilt University impose various development, diligence, commercialization, and other obligations on us, and any future license agreements may impose similar or other obligations on us. For example, under our license agreements with UC Berkeley and Vanderbilt University, we must satisfy specified minimum annual royalty payment obligations. In spite of our efforts, our licensors might conclude that we have materially breached our obligations under such license agreements and might therefore terminate the license agreements, thereby removing or limiting our ability to develop and commercialize products and technology covered by these license agreements. If our license agreements with UC Berkeley or Vanderbilt University are terminated, competitors or other third parties would have the freedom to seek regulatory approval of, and to market, products that may be identical or functionally similar to our devices and we may be required to cease our development and commercialization of such devices. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, disputes may arise between us and our counterparties, including with our non-Company-sponsored single clinical study partner for our Nomad product, regarding intellectual property subject to a licensing agreement, including the scope of rights granted under the license agreement and other interpretation-related issues; the extent to which our devices, technology and processes infringe on intellectual property of the licensor that is not subject to the licensing agreement; the sublicensing of patent and other rights under our collaborative research and development relationships; our diligence obligations under the license agreement and what activities satisfy those diligence obligations; the ownership of inventions and know-how resulting from the joint creation or use of intellectual property by our licensors and us and our partners; and the priority of invention of patented or patentable technology. In addition, certain provisions in our license agreements with UC Berkeley and Vanderbilt University may be susceptible to multiple interpretations. The resolution of any contract interpretation disagreement that may arise could narrow what we believe to be the scope of our rights to the relevant intellectual property or technology, or increase what we believe to be our financial or other obligations under the agreement, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Moreover, if disputes over intellectual property that we have licensed prevent or impair our ability to maintain our current licensing arrangements on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop and commercialize the affected devices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions, results of operations and prospects. Patent terms may be inadequate to protect our competitive position on our devices for an adequate amount of time. Patents have a limited lifespan. In the United States, if all maintenance fees are timely paid, the natural expiration of a patent is generally 20 years from its earliest U.S. non-provisional filing date. Various extensions may be available, but the life of a patent, and the protection it affords, is limited. Even if patents covering our devices are obtained, once the patent life has expired, we may be open to competition from competitive products. Given the amount of time required for the development, testing and regulatory review of new devices, patents protecting such devices might expire before or shortly after such devices are commercialized. As a result, our owned and licensed patent portfolio may not provide us with sufficient rights to exclude others from commercializing products similar or identical to ours. Legal and Regulatory Compliance Risks If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory clearances or approvals for our medical device products, or if clearances or approvals for future products or modifications to existing products are delayed or not issued, our commercial operations would be harmed. Our EksoNR, Ekso Indego, and Nomad products are medical devices and are regulated by the FDA, the European Union and other governmental authorities both inside and outside of the United States. These agencies enforce laws and regulations that govern the development, testing, clinical trials, manufacturing, labeling, advertising, marketing and distribution, recordkeeping, recalls and field safety corrective actions, and market surveillance of our medical products. Our failure to comply with these complex laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents In the United States, before we can market a new medical device, or a new use of, new claim for or significant modification to an existing product, we must first receive either clearance under Section 510(k) of the FDCA or approval of a premarket approval ("PMA") application from the FDA, unless an exemption applies. Both the PMA and the 510(k) clearance process can be expensive, lengthy and uncertain. The FDAs 510(k) clearance process may take anywhere from several months to over a year. The process of obtaining a PMA is much more costly and uncertain than the 510(k) clearance process and generally takes from one to three years, or even longer, from the time the application is filed with the FDA. In addition, PMA generally requires the performance of one or more clinical trials. The FDA also has substantial discretion in the medical device review process. Despite the time, effort and cost, we cannot assure you that any particular device will be approved or cleared by the FDA. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could harm our business. Failure can occur at any stage, and we could encounter problems that cause us to repeat or perform additional development, standardized testing, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials. Any delay or failure to obtain necessary regulatory approvals could harm our business. The FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities can delay, limit or deny clearance or approval of a medical device candidate for many reasons, including a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a device lawfully marketed either as a grandfathered device or one that was cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification process; a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be substantially equivalent to a device lawfully marketed either as a grandfathered device or one that was cleared through the 510(k) premarket notification process; a medical device candidate may not be deemed to be in conformance with applicable standards and regulations; FDA or other regulatory officials may not find the data from pre-clinical studies and clinical trials or other product testing date to be sufficient; other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may not approve our processes or facilities or those of any of our third-party manufacturers, thereby restricting export; or the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities may change clearance or approval policies or adopt new regulations. Even after regulatory clearance or approval has been granted, a cleared or approved product and its manufacturer are subject to extensive regulatory requirements relating to manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising and promotion, recordkeeping, and recalls and field safety corrective actions of the product. If we fail to comply with the regulatory requirements of the FDA or other non-U.S. regulatory authorities, or if previously unknown problems with our products or manufacturing processes are discovered, we could be subject to administrative or judicially imposed sanctions, including restrictions on the products, manufacturers or manufacturing process; adverse publicity; adverse inspectional observations (Form 483), warning letters, non-warning letters incorporating inspectional observations; consent decrees; civil or criminal penalties or fines; injunctions; product seizures, detentions or import bans; voluntary or mandatory product recalls and publicity requirements; suspension or withdrawal of regulatory clearances or approvals; total or partial suspension of production; imposition of restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; refusal to clear or approve pending applications or premarket notifications; and import and export restrictions. If imposed on us, any of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our products and operations are subject to extensive government regulation and oversight in the United States and other countries where we commercialize our medical devices. Medical devices regulated by the FDA are subject to general controls which include: registration with the FDA; listing commercially distributed products with the FDA; complying with all applicable requirements under the QSR, or QSMR when its goes into effect in February 2026; filing reports with the FDA of and keeping records relative to certain types of adverse events associated with devices under the medical device reporting regulation; assuring that device labeling complies with device labeling requirements; reporting certain device field removals and corrections to the FDA; and obtaining pre-market notification 510(k) clearance for devices prior to marketing. Some devices known as 510(k)-exempt devices can be marketed without prior marketing-clearance or approval from the FDA. In addition to the general controls, some Class II medical devices are also subject to special controls, including adherence to a particular guidance document and compliance with the performance standard. Instead of obtaining 510(k) clearance, most Class III devices are subject to PMA. Although our Class II medical devices have received regulatory clearance from FDA in the United States for a particular patient population, they will be subject to ongoing regulatory requirements for manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, sampling, record-keeping, conduct of post-marketing studies and submission of safety, effectiveness and other post-market information, including both federal and state requirements in the United States and requirements of comparable non-U.S. regulatory authorities in any international markets we choose to enter. Any regulatory clearances that we have received for our products will be subject to limitations on the cleared or approved indicated uses for which the product may be marketed and promoted, will be subject to the conditions of approval, or will contain requirements for potentially costly post-marketing testing. We are required to report certain adverse events and production problems, if any, to the FDA and comparable foreign regulatory authorities. Any new legislation addressing product safety issues could result in increased costs to assure compliance. The FDA and other agencies, including the DOJ, closely regulate and monitor the post-clearance or approval marketing and promotion of products to ensure that they are marketed and distributed only for the cleared or approved indications and in accordance with the provisions of the cleared or approved labeling. We have to comply with requirements concerning advertising and promotion for our products. Promotional communications with respect to devices are subject to a variety of legal and regulatory restrictions and must be consistent with the information in the products cleared or approved labeling. As such, we may not promote our products for indications or uses for which they do not have clearance. If the FDA determines that our promotional, reimbursement or training materials for sales representatives or doctors constitute promotion of an off-label use, the FDA could request that we modify our training, promotional or reimbursement materials and/or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, disgorgement of profits, significant penalties, including civil fines and criminal penalties. Other federal, state or foreign governmental authorities also might take action if they consider our promotion, reimbursement or training materials to constitute promotion of an off-label use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. Although we train our sales force not to promote our products for off-label uses, and our instructions for use in all markets specify that our products are not intended for use outside of those indications cleared or approved for use, the FDA or another regulatory agency could conclude that we have engaged in off-label promotion. For example, the government may take the position that off-label promotion resulted in inappropriate reimbursement for an off-label use in violation of the federal civil False Claims Act for which it might impose significant civil fines and even pursue criminal action. In those possible events, our reputation could be damaged, and adoption of the products would be impaired. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with our facility where the product is manufactured or disagrees with the promotion, marketing or labeling of a product, such regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency or enforcement authority may, among other things: subject our facility to an adverse inspectional finding or Form 483, or other compliance or enforcement notice, communication or correspondence; issue warning or untitled letters that would result in adverse publicity or may require corrective advertising; impose civil or criminal penalties; suspend or withdraw regulatory clearances or approvals; refuse to clear or approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications submitted by us; impose restrictions on our operations, including closing our sub-assembly suppliers facilities; seize or detain products; or require a product recall. In addition, violations of the FDCA relating to the promotion of approved products may lead to investigations alleging violations of federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse and other laws, as well as state consumer protection laws. Any government investigation of alleged violations of law could require us to expend significant time and resources in response and could generate negative publicity. Any failure to comply with ongoing regulatory requirements may significantly and adversely affect our ability to commercialize and generate revenue from our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory clearance or approval is withdrawn, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, FDA and other regulatory authorities may change their policies, issue additional regulations or revise existing regulations, any of which could delay our ability to obtain new marketing authorizations and increase the costs of compliance or restrict our ability to maintain any regulatory authorizations we may have obtained. In June 2024, the U.S. Supreme Court overruled the Chevron doctrine, which gives deference to regulatory agencies' statutory interpretations in litigation against federal government agencies, such as the FDA where the law is ambiguous. This Supreme Court decision may invite more stakeholders to bring lawsuits against the FDA to challenge longstanding decisions and policies of the FDA, which could undermine the FDA's authority, lead to uncertainties in the industry, and disrupt the FDA's normal operations, any of which could delay the FDA's review of pending submissions. We cannot predict the full impact of this decision on us or the medical device industry in general. Further, changes in the leadership of the FDA and other federal agencies under the new Trump administration can result in changes in the agencies operations and policies, which may impact our product development plans and timelines. Modifications to our current and our future products may require new 510(k) clearances or premarket approvals, or may require us to cease marketing or recall the modified products until clearances are obtained. An element of our strategy is to continue to upgrade our robotic exoskeleton platform to incorporate new software and hardware enhancements. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device, including our EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy, and Ekso Indego Personal, that could significantly affect its safety or effectiveness, or that would constitute a major change in its intended use, design, or manufacture, requires a new 510(k) clearance or, possibly, a PMA. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make this determination in the first instance based on the final guidance document issued by the FDA in October 2017 addressing when to submit a new 510(k) application due to modifications to 510(k)-cleared devices and a separate guidance document on when to submit a new 510(k) application due to software changes to 510(k)-cleared devices. Although largely aligned with the FDAs longstanding guidance document issued in 1997, the 2017 guidance includes targeted changes intended to provide additional clarity on when a new 510(k) application is needed. The FDA may review our determinations regarding whether new clearances or approvals are necessary, and may not agree with our decisions. If the FDA disagrees with our determinations for any future changes, or prior changes to previously marketed products, as the case may be, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified products until we obtain clearance or approval, and we may be subject to significant regulatory fines or penalties. 20 Table of Contents We may introduce new products with enhanced features and extended capabilities from time to time. The products may be subject to various regulatory processes, and we may need to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals in order to sell our new products. If a potential purchaser of our products believes that we plan to introduce a new product in the near future or if a potential purchaser is located in a country where a new product that we have introduced has not yet received regulatory approval, planned purchases may be deferred or delayed. As a result, new product introductions may adversely impact our financial results. We must obtain certain regulatory approvals in the EU, which could be costly and time-consuming and subject us to unanticipated delays or prevent us from marketing certain devices. In the EU, we are required to comply with the EU MDR and obtain CE Certificates of Conformity in order to affix the CE Mark and market medical devices. As of December 31, 2024, our EksoNR product had yet been approved under the EU MDR. We have submitted an application to obtain CE Certificates of Conformity in order to affix the CE Mark to EksoNR. Such application may be delayed or denied. Specifically, changes in regulatory policy for the approval or CE marking of a medical device during the period of product development and regulatory agency review or notified body review of each submitted new application may cause delays or rejections. In March 2023, the European Commission extended the original compliance dates for the EU MDR. As a result, the EU MDR transitional period deadline for our products was set to December 31, 2028. Failure to comply with the EU MDR requirements by the EU MDR transitional period deadline would prevent us from generating revenue from sales of our products in the EU, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to meet strict post-market regulatory requirements with respect to our products could require us to pay fines, incur other costs or even close our facilities. If we, or our suppliers, fail to comply with the FDAs QSR or QSMR when it goes into effect in February 2026, or other applicable foreign regulations, our manufacturing or distribution operations could be delayed or shut down and our revenue could suffer. Our manufacturing and design processes and those of our third-party component suppliers are required to comply with the FDAs QSR, which covers procedures and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging, storage and shipping of our products in the United States. We are also subject to similar state requirements and licenses, and to ongoing ISO 13485 compliance in our operations, including design, manufacturing, and service. In addition, we must engage in extensive recordkeeping and reporting and must make available our facilities and records for periodic unannounced inspections by governmental agencies, including the FDA, state authorities, and applicable agencies in other countries. These regulatory requirements and changes to the requirements may significantly increase our production costs and may even prevent us from making our products in amounts sufficient to meet market demand. If we change our approved manufacturing process, the FDA may need to review the process before it may be used. The FDA enforces the QSR through periodic announced and unannounced inspections of manufacturing facilities. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements such as QSR may result in changes to labeling, restrictions on such products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of the products from the market, voluntary or mandatory recalls, a requirement to repair, replace or refund the cost of any medical device we manufacture or distribute, fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product seizures, injunctions or the imposition of civil or criminal penalties which would adversely affect our business, operating results and prospects. The FDA issued a final rule in February 2024 replacing the QSR with QMSR, which incorporates by reference the quality management system requirements of ISO 13485:2016. The FDA has stated that the standards contained in ISO 13485:216 are substantially similar to those set forth in the existing QSR. The FDA will begin to enforce the QMSR requirements upon the effective date, February 2, 2026. If we or any of our suppliers or contractors fail to meet the regulatory requirements or a regulatory inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing interrupted. Failure to take timely and adequate corrective action in response to an adverse regulatory inspection could result in, among other things, a shutdown of our manufacturing or product distribution operations, significant fines, suspension of marketing clearances and approvals, seizures or recalls of our device, operating restrictions and criminal prosecutions, any of which would cause our business to suffer. Federal, state and non-U.S. regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of medical devices are subject to future changes. The complexity, timeframes and costs associated with obtaining marketing clearances are unknown. Although we cannot predict the impact, if any, these changes might have on our business, the impact could be material. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to remain in material compliance with the QSR, or QSMR when it goes into effect in February 2026. If the FDA or any applicable agencies inspect any of our facilities and discover compliance problems, we may have to cease manufacturing and product distribution until we can take the appropriate remedial steps to correct the audit findings. Taking corrective action may be expensive, time consuming and a distraction for management and if we experience a delay at our manufacturing facility, we may be unable to produce our products, which would harm our business. We may be subject to fines, penalties or injunctions if we are determined to be promoting the use of our products for unapproved or off-label uses. Any cleared or approved product may be promoted only for its indicated uses and our promotional materials must comply with FDA and other applicable laws and regulations. We believe that the specific use for which our products are marketed fall within the scope of the indications for use that have been cleared by the FDA. However, if the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitutes promotion of an unapproved use, it could request that we modify our promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine and criminal penalties. It is also possible that other federal, state or foreign enforcement authorities might take action if they consider our promotional or training materials to constitute promotion of an unapproved use, which could result in significant fines or penalties under other statutory authorities, such as laws prohibiting false claims for reimbursement. In that event, our reputation could be damaged and adoption of the products would be impaired. 21 Table of Contents We may be subject to adverse medical device reporting obligations, voluntary corrective actions or agency enforcement actions. Under the FDAs medical device reporting or EU MDR regulations, we are required to report to the FDA any incident in which our product may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or in which our product malfunctioned and, if the malfunction were to recur, would likely cause or contribute to death or serious injury. For example, we have been informed of a limited number of events with respect to our EksoNR device that have been determined to be reportable pursuant to the EU MDR regulations. In each case, the required EU MDR report was filed with the FDA. In addition, all manufacturers bringing medical devices to market in the European Economic Area are legally bound to report any incident that led or might have led to the death or serious deterioration in the state of health of a patient, user or other person, and which the manufacturers device is suspected to have caused, to the competent authority in whose jurisdiction the incident occurred. In such case, the manufacturer must file an initial report with the relevant competent authority, which would be followed by further evaluation or investigation of the incident and a final report indicating whether further action is required. The events described above that were reported to the FDA were also reported to the relevant EU regulatory authorities. We are also required to follow detailed recordkeeping requirements for all Company-initiated medical device corrections and removals, and to report such corrective and removal actions to the FDA if they are carried out in response to a risk to health and have not otherwise been reported under the MDR regulations. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities also have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design, labeling or manufacture of a product or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. Depending on the corrective action we take to redress a products deficiencies or defects, the FDA may require, or we may decide, that we will need to obtain new approvals or clearances for the device before we may market or distribute the corrected device. Seeking such approvals or clearances may delay our ability to replace the recalled devices in a timely manner. Moreover, if we do not adequately address problems associated with our devices, we may face additional regulatory enforcement action, including adverse publicity, FDA warning letters, product seizure, injunctions, administrative penalties, or civil or criminal fines. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our sales as well as face significant adverse publicity or regulatory consequences, which could harm our business, including our ability to market our products in the future. Any adverse event involving our products could result in future voluntary corrective actions, such as recalls or customer notifications, or agency action, such as inspection or enforcement action. Recalls of our products, or agency actions relating to our failure to comply with our reporting or recordkeeping obligations, could harm our reputation and financial results. Failure to comply with anti-kickback and fraud regulations could result in substantial penalties and changes in our business operations. Although we do not provide healthcare services, submit claims for third-party reimbursement, or receive payments directly from Medicare, Medicaid or other third-party payers for our products, we are subject to healthcare fraud and abuse regulation and enforcement by federal, state and foreign governments, which could significantly impact our business. These laws may constrain the business and financial arrangements and relationships through which we conduct our operations, including how we research, market, sell and distribute any product for which we have obtained regulatory approval, or for which we obtain regulatory approval in the future. The principal U.S. federal laws implicated include, but are not limited to, those that prohibit, among other things, (i) filing, or causing to be filed, false or improper claims for federal payment, known as the false claims laws, (ii) payment, solicitation or receipt of unlawful inducements, directly or indirectly, for the referral of business reimbursable under federally-funded health care programs, known as the anti-kickback laws, and (iii) health care service providers from seeking reimbursement for providing certain services to a patient who was referred by a physician who has certain types of direct or indirect financial relationships with the service provider, known as the Stark law. Many states have similar laws that apply to reimbursement by state Medicaid and other government funded programs as well as in some cases to all payers. Efforts to ensure that our business arrangements will comply with applicable healthcare laws and regulations will involve substantial costs. We are subject to the risk that a person or government could allege we have engaged in fraud or other misconduct, even if none occurred. It is possible that governmental and enforcement authorities will conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations or case law interpreting applicable fraud and abuse or other healthcare laws and regulations. If our operations are found to be in violation of any of the laws described above or any other governmental regulations that apply to us now or in the future, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, disgorgement, exclusion from governmental health care programs, additional integrity oversight and reporting obligations, contractual damages, reputational harm and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations, any of which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. 22 Table of Contents Changes in law or regulation could make it more difficult and costly for us to manufacture, market and distribute our products or obtain or maintain regulatory approval of new or modified products. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the regulatory approval, manufacture and marketing of regulated devices. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the FDA in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Any new regulations or revisions or reinterpretations of existing regulations may impose additional costs or lengthen review times of future products. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. Elections could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the health care industry. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. For example, recent changes in FDA leadership and policies under President Trump's administration, including potential reforms and shifts in regulatory focus, may adversely impact our business and compliance requirements. Any change in the laws or regulations that govern the clearance and approval processes relating to our current and future products could make it more difficult and costly to obtain clearance or approval for new products, or to produce, market, and distribute existing products. Significant delays in receiving clearance or approval, or the failure to receive clearance or approval, for any new products would have an adverse effect on our ability to expand our business. Healthcare changes in the United States and other countries, including recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. healthcare system, could have a negative impact on our future operating results. In the United States and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the health care system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our products profitably. For example, in 2010, the ACA was enacted into law. The legislation seeks to reform the United States healthcare system. It is far-reaching and is intended to expand access to health insurance coverage, improve quality and reduce costs over time. We expect the law will have a significant impact upon various aspects of our business operations. The ACA reduces Medicare and Medicaid payments to hospitals, clinical laboratories and pharmaceutical companies, and could otherwise reduce the volume of medical procedures. These factors, in turn, could result in reduced demand for our products and increased downward pricing pressure. It is also possible that the ACA will result in lower reimbursements. While the ACA is intended to expand health insurance coverage to uninsured persons in the United States, the impact of any overall increase in access to healthcare on sales of our products remains uncertain. Since its enactment, there have been numerous judicial, administrative, executive, and legislative challenges to certain aspects of the ACA, and we expect there will be additional challenges in the future. In June 2021, the U.S. Supreme Court held that Texas and other challengers had no legal standing to challenge the ACA, dismissing the case on procedural grounds without specifically ruling on the constitutionality of the ACA. Thus, the ACA will remain in effect in its current form. It is possible that the ACA will be subject to judicial or Congressional challenges in the future. It is unclear how any such challenges and healthcare measures promulgated by the new Trump administration will impact the ACA, our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, it is possible that such initiatives could have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain approval and/or successfully commercialize products in the United States in the future. For example, any changes that reduce, or impede the ability to obtain, reimbursement for the type of products we intend to commercialize in the United States (or our products more specifically, if approved) could adversely affect our business plan to introduce our products in the United States. Other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted in the United States since the ACA was enacted. For example, in August 2011, the Budget Control Act of 2011, among other things, created measures for spending reductions by Congress. A Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction, tasked with recommending a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2012 through 2021, was unable to reach required goals, thereby triggering the legislations automatic reduction to several government programs. This includes aggregate reductions of Medicare payments to providers of up to 2% per fiscal year, which went into effect in April 2013 and will remain in effect through 2030 unless additional Congressional action is taken. In June 2024, the U.S. Supreme Court overruled the Chevron doctrine, which gave deference to regulatory agencies' statutory interpretations in litigation against federal government agencies, such as the FDA where the law is ambiguous. This Supreme Court decision may invite more stakeholders to bring lawsuits against the FDA to challenge longstanding decisions and policies of the FDA and other federal agencies, which could undermine the FDA's or any other U.S. government agencys authority, lead to uncertainties in the industry, and disrupt the FDA's and other U.S. government agencies normal operations, any of which could impact our business or the medical device industry in general. Further, changes in the leadership of the FDA and other federal agencies under the new Trump administration can result in changes in the agencies operations and policies, which may impact our product development plans. Government payers, such as CMS as well as insurers, have increased their efforts to control the cost, utilization and delivery of healthcare services. From time to time, the United States Congress has considered and implemented changes in the CMS fee schedules in conjunction with budgetary legislation. Reductions of reimbursement by Medicare or Medicaid for our products or changes in coverage policies, such as adding requirements for payment, or prior authorizations, may be implemented from time to time. Reductions in the reimbursement rates and changes in payment policies of other third-party payers may occur as well. Changes in federal, state, local and third-party payer regulations or policies may have a material adverse impact on the demand for our products and on our business. Actions by agencies regulating insurance or changes in other laws, regulations, or policies may also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Legislative or regulatory reforms may make it more difficult and costly for us to obtain regulatory authorizations for our planned or future products and to manufacture, market and distribute our products after authorization is obtained. 23 Table of Contents Additional changes may affect our business, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes, fraud and abuse enforcement, and expansion of new programs, such as Medicare payment for performance initiatives. These initiatives, as well as other healthcare reform measures that may be adopted in the future, may result in more rigorous coverage criteria and additional downward pressure on the price that we receive for any approved product. Any reduction in reimbursement from Medicare or other government programs may result in a similar reduction in payments from private payors. The implementation of cost containment measures or other healthcare reforms could result in reduced demand for our product candidates or additional pricing pressures and may prevent us from being able to generate revenue, attain profitability, or commercialize our products. Finally, future elections in the United States could result in significant changes in, and uncertainty with respect to, legislation, regulation, implementation of Medicare and/or Medicaid, and government policy that could significantly impact our business and the healthcare industry. The President and the executive branch of the federal government have a significant impact on the implementation of the provisions of the ACA, and the current or future administrations could make changes impacting the implementation and enforcement of the ACA, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are slow or unable to adapt to any such changes, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Failure to comply with HIPAA or the HITECH Act and implementing regulations could result in significant penalties. Numerous federal and state laws and regulations, including HIPAA and the HITECH Act, govern the collection, dissemination, security, use and confidentiality of patient-identifiable health information. HIPAA and the HITECH Act require us to comply with standards for the use and disclosure of such protected health information within our company and with third parties. The Privacy Standards and Security Standards under HIPAA establish a set of basic national privacy and security standards for the protection of individually identifiable health information by health plans, healthcare clearinghouses and certain healthcare providers, referred to as covered entities, and the business associates with whom such covered entities contract for services. Notably, whereas HIPAA previously directly regulated only these covered entities, the HITECH Act, which was signed into law in 2009, makes certain of HIPAAs privacy and security standards directly applicable to covered entities business associates. Both covered entities and business associates are subject to significant civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with the Privacy Standards and Security Standards under HIPAA. HIPAA requires healthcare providers like us to develop and maintain policies and procedures with respect to protected health information that is used or disclosed, including the adoption of administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect such information from unauthorized disclosure. The HITECH Act expanded the notification requirement for breaches of patient-identifiable health information, restricts certain disclosures and sales of patient-identifiable health information and provides a tiered system for civil monetary penalties for HIPAA violations. The HITECH Act also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions. The 2013 final HITECH omnibus rule modified the breach reporting standard in a manner that made more data security incidents qualify as reportable breaches. Additionally, certain states have adopted comparable privacy and security laws and regulations, some of which may be more stringent than HIPAA. If we are determined to be out of compliance with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, the HITECH Act, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we handle healthcare related data and communicate with payors, and the cost of complying with these standards could be significant. 24 Table of Contents Any liability from a failure to comply with the requirements of HIPAA or the HITECH Act could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The costs of complying with privacy and security related legal and regulatory requirements are burdensome and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Regulations requiring the use of standard transactions for healthcare services issued under HIPAA may negatively affect our profitability and cash flows. Pursuant to HIPAA, final regulations have been implemented to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the healthcare system by facilitating the electronic exchange of information in certain financial and administrative transactions while protecting the privacy and security of the information exchanged. The HIPAA transaction standards are complex, and subject to differences in interpretation by third-party payors. For instance, some third-party payors may interpret the standards to require us to provide certain types of information, including demographic information not usually provided to us by physicians. As a result of inconsistent application of transaction standards by third-party payors or our inability to obtain certain billing information not usually provided to us by physicians, we could face increased costs and complexity, a temporary disruption in accounts receivable and ongoing reductions in reimbursements and net revenue. Changes and updates to HIPAA transaction standards could prove technically difficult, time-consuming or expensive to implement, all of which could harm our business. We are subject to evolving laws, regulations, and other obligations related to privacy, data protection, and information security, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our reputation, subject us to significant fines and liability or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. The regulatory frameworks for privacy, data protection, and information security issues worldwide are rapidly evolving and likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The U.S. federal and various state, local, and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations governing the collection, distribution, use, disclosure, storage, security, and other processing of information relating to individuals. For example, California adopted the California Consumer Privacy Act (the "CCPA"), which became effective in January 2020. The CCPA established a privacy framework for covered businesses, including an expansive definition of personal information and data privacy rights for California residents. The CCPA includes a framework with potentially severe statutory damages and private rights of action. Additionally, the California Privacy Rights Act (the "CPRA"), was approved by California voters in the November 2020 election and went into effect on January 1, 2023. The CPRA significantly modifies the CCPA, potentially resulting in further uncertainty. Other states have begun to propose and enact laws relating to privacy and information security matters, many of which are comprehensive privacy statutes similar to the CCPA. Further, other states have enacted laws that cover specific topics, such as the use and collection of biometric information or the collection, use, disclosure, and/or other processing of health-related information. The U.S. federal government also is contemplating federal privacy legislation. The collection and use of health data and other personal data is governed in the EU by the General Data Protection Regulation (the "GDPR"), which imposes substantial obligations upon companies and rights for individuals, and by certain EU member state-level legislation. Failure to comply with the GDPR may result in fines up to the greater of 20,000,000 or 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year. The UK has implemented legislation similar to the GDPR, referred to as the UK GDPR, which provides for fines of up to the greater of 17.5 million or 4% of global turnover. Many other jurisdictions globally are considering or have enacted legislation providing for local storage of data or otherwise imposing privacy, data protection, and information security obligations in connection with the collection, use, and other processing of personal data. As a general matter, compliance with laws, regulations, contractual obligations, and other actual and asserted obligations, such as industry standards, and any rules or guidance from self-regulatory organizations, relating to privacy, data protection, and data security that apply, or are asserted to apply, to our operations can be rigorous and time-intensive, may result in substantial costs, and may necessitate changes to our policies and practices, which may compromise our growth strategy, adversely affect our ability to acquire customers, and otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 25 Table of Contents With laws, regulations, and other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, and information security imposing new and relatively burdensome obligations, and with substantial uncertainty over the interpretation and application of these and other obligations, we may face challenges in addressing their requirements and making necessary changes to our policies and practices. We also may incur significant costs and expenses in an effort to do so. Additionally, if third parties we work with, such as contractors or service providers, violate applicable laws or regulations or our policies, such violations may also put our data at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. Any failure or perceived failure by us or our contractors or service providers to comply with our applicable policies or notices, our contractual or other obligations to third parties, or any of our other actual or asserted legal obligations relating to privacy, data protection, or information security, may result in governmental investigations or enforcement actions, litigation, claims, and other proceedings, harm our reputation, and could result in significant liability. Any such event may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We are subject to cybersecurity risks to our systems, infrastructure, and technology, and data processed by us or third-party vendors. Our business and operations involve the collection, storage, transmission, and other processing of personal data and certain other sensitive and proprietary data. Numerous organizations have disclosed breaches of their information security systems and other information security incidents, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks. We have been and may in the future be a target for cybersecurity attacks designed to disrupt our operations or to attempt to gain access to our systems, data processed or maintained in our business, trade secrets, or other proprietary information or financial resources. Many of our personnel work remotely all or part of the time, which increases certain security risks. In addition, certain attacks may be state-sponsored or supported by significant financial and technological resources, making them even more difficult to detect, remediate and otherwise respond to. The risk of state-supported and geopolitical-related cybersecurity attacks is believed to be heightened in connection with the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East and any related political or economic responses and counter-responses. We are at risk for interruptions, outages, and breaches of our operational systems, including business, financial, accounting, product development, data processing or production processes, as well as our security systems, in-product software and technology, and customer data. We use third parties to process some data on our behalf, and they face similar security risks. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to or to sabotage information systems change frequently and may not be known until launched against a target, we and the third parties on which we rely may be unable to anticipate or prevent these attacks, react in a timely manner or implement adequate preventive measures, and we may face delays in our detection or remediation of, or other responses to, security breaches and other privacy-and security-related incidents. Such incidents could materially disrupt our systems, result in loss of intellectual property and misappropriation of trade secrets or other proprietary or competitively sensitive information, compromise the confidentiality, security, and integrity of our information, including employees personal information, and information of customers or others, jeopardize the security of our facilities, or affect the performance of our products. The loss, corruption, or unavailability of clinical trial data from completed or future clinical trials could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the impacted data. Although we have implemented and are in the process of implementing additional systems and processes that are designed to protect our data and systems within our control, prevent data loss, and prevent other security breaches and incidents, these measures cannot guarantee security. The systems and infrastructure used in our business may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security breaches or incidents, and third parties may be able to access data, including personal data and other sensitive and proprietary data or other sensitive and proprietary data, or such data otherwise may be subject to unauthorized use, disclosure, unavailability, modification, or other processing. Employee error, malfeasance or other errors in the storage, use or transmission of any of these types of data could result in an actual or perceived privacy or security breach or other security incident. Any security breach or security incident impacting our systems or infrastructure, or data we or third parties on which we rely maintain or otherwise process, or any outages or other disruptions to systems used in our business, could interrupt our operations and result in the loss of or improper access to, or acquisition or disclosure of, data or a loss of intellectual property protection. Any such breach or incident, or the perception it has occurred, also may harm our reputation and competitive position, harm our product development and regulatory approval efforts, reduce demand for our products, damage our relationships with customers, partners, collaborators or others, and result in claims, demands, litigation, regulatory investigations and proceedings and significant legal, regulatory and financial exposure. Any such event may adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. We expect to incur significant costs in an effort to detect and prevent privacy and security breaches and other privacy- and security-related incidents, and may face increased costs and requirements to expend substantial resources in the event of an actual or perceived privacy or security breach or other incident. 26 Table of Contents While we maintain insurance that may cover certain liabilities in connection with certain disruptions, security breaches, and incidents, our insurance policies may not be adequate to compensate us for the potential losses arising from any disruption in or, failure or security breach or incident of or impacting our systems or third-party systems where information important to our operations or product development is stored or processed. In addition, such insurance may not be available to us in the future on economically reasonable terms, or at all. Further, our insurance may not cover all claims made against us and could have high deductibles in any event, and defending a suit, regardless of its merit, could be costly and divert management attention. Product Liability Risks Our products may become subject to voluntary or involuntary recall. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture or in the event that a product poses an unacceptable risk to health. In addition, manufacturers may, under their own initiative, recall a product if any material deficiency in a device is found. A government-mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of an unacceptable risk to health, component failures, manufacturing errors, design or labeling defects or other deficiencies and issues. When a medical human exoskeleton is used by a paralyzed individual to walk, the individual relies completely on the exoskeleton to hold them upright. There are many exoskeleton components that, if they were to fail catastrophically, could cause a fall resulting in severe injury or death of the patient. Certain of our competitors have reported injuries caused by the malfunction of human exoskeleton devices (in at least one case to the FDA). Injuries caused by the malfunction or misuse of human exoskeleton devices, even where such malfunction or misuse occurs with respect to one of our competitors products, could cause regulatory agencies to implement more conservative regulations on the medical human exoskeleton industry, which could significantly increase our operating costs. Similarly, when an industrial exoskeleton is used by a healthy individual - for example to operate heavy machinery overhead - malfunction of the device at an inopportune moment could result in severe injury or death of the person using the device. Such occurrences could result in regulatory action on the part of OSHA or its foreign counterparts. Any future recalls of any of our products could divert managerial and financial resources, impair our ability to manufacture our products in a cost-effective and timely manner, and have an adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations and financial condition. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. We may also be required to bear other costs or take other actions that may have a negative impact on our future sales and our ability to generate profits. In addition, personal injuries relating to the use of our products could also result in product liability claims being brought against us. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in substantial damages, be costly and time-consuming to defend and could increase our insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Our product liability insurance may not adequately cover potential claims or recalls. The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of medical devices and industrial products entail the inherent risk of liability claims or product recalls. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage is subject to deductibles and limitations, and may not be adequate to cover future claims. A successful product liability claim or product recall could inhibit or prevent the successful commercialization of our products, cause a significant financial burden on us, or both, which in either case could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Warranty claims and our accelerated maintenance program results in additional operating costs to us. Sales of our EksoNR, Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal products generally include a one-year warranty for parts and services in the United States and a one- to three-year warranty in EMEA and APAC. We also generally provide customers with an option to purchase an extended warranty for up to an additional four years. The costs associated with such warranties, including any warranty-related legal proceedings, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. As we enhance our product and in an effort to build our brand and drive adoption, we have elected to incur increased service expenses related to an accelerated maintenance program, field corrections and the implementation of technological improvements developed subsequent to many of our units being placed into service, sometimes outside of its warranty and contractual obligations. Continuation of these activities could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. 27 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of Common Stock You may be diluted from future issuances of our equity securities, including in future financings or strategic transactions, from compensatory equity awards and exercises of outstanding warrants, and such issuances, or perception that such issuances may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. Future operating or business decisions may cause dilution to our stockholders. For example, we may sell equity securities or issue securities exercisable or convertible into shares of our common stock in connection with strategic transactions or for financing purposes, including under our At The Market Offering Agreement (the "ATM Agreement") or otherwise through registered or unregistered offerings. As of December 31, 2024, we have $4.1 million available for future offerings under the prospectus filed with respect to the ATM Agreement. Furthermore, a substantial majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act so long as we are generally current on our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act), unless these shares are owned or purchased by affiliates as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. We may also make equity grants under one or more employee equity incentive plan or our employee stock purchase plan or issue common stock as matching contributions to our employees under our 401(k) Plan. You may also be subject to dilution from the exercise or settlement of outstanding options or restricted stock units under the Amended and Restated 2014 Equity Incentive Plan, and from the exercise of our warrants, including the exercise of any pre-funded warrants. In addition, sales or issuances of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or other equity-related securities in the public markets, or the perception that such sales or issuances could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. We may not achieve profitability in the near term or at all, and historically we have not been profitable. Management has historically financed the Companys operations through external financings, from both equity and debt financings, like issuances under our ATM Agreement, our registered direct offering in January 2024 (the "January 2024 Offering"), and our underwritten public offering in September 2024 (the "September 2024 Offering"), for example. To the extent our cash on hand does not provide sufficient capital for us to achieve profitability, or we are unable to maintain profitability once initially achieved, we expect we will need to raise additional capital through future financings. To the extent we decide to conduct a financing in the future, the form of such financing may include one or more of the following: (i) underwritten offerings of shares of our common stock, (ii) sales of shares of our common stock under an "at the market" offering program, (iii) issuing shares of our common stock upon the exercise of warrants at reduced exercise prices, (iv) incurring indebtedness with one or more financial institutions, (v) sale of product line or technology, and (vi) the factoring of trade receivables. Additional funding may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all, or we may be required to seek other more costly or time-consuming methods. Any failure to raise capital as and when needed could have a negative impact on our financial condition and on our ability to pursue our business plans and strategies. The ability of our Board of Directors to issue additional stock may prevent us from making more difficult transactions, including a sale or merger. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 10 million shares of preferred stock with powers, rights and preferences designated by it. Shares of voting or convertible preferred stock could be issued, or rights to purchase such shares could be issued, to create voting impediments or to frustrate persons seeking to effect a takeover or otherwise gain control of us. The ability of the Board of Directors to issue such additional shares of preferred stock, with rights and preferences it deems advisable, could discourage an attempt by a party to acquire control of us by tender offer or other means. Such issuances could therefore deprive stockholders of benefits that could result from such an attempt, such as the realization of a premium over the market price for their shares in a tender offer or the temporary increase in market price that such an attempt could cause. Moreover, the issuance of such additional shares of preferred stock to persons friendly to the Board of Directors could make it more difficult to remove incumbent officers and directors from office even if such change were to be favorable to stockholders generally. We have never paid and do not intend to pay cash dividends. Cash dividends have never been declared or paid on our common stock, and we do not anticipate such a declaration or payment for the foreseeable future. We expect to use future earnings, if any, to fund business growth. Therefore, stockholders will not receive any funds absent a sale of their shares of common stock. If we do not pay dividends, our common stock may be less valuable because a return on investment will only occur if our stock price appreciates The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During the period from our initial listing on Nasdaq on August 9, 2016 through December 31, 2024, the closing price of our common stock fluctuated from a high of $93.15 per share to a low of $0.57 per share (on a split-adjusted basis), and our stock price continues to fluctuate. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, such as our ability to grow our revenue and customer base; the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; developments concerning regulatory oversight and approvals; variations in our and our competitors results of operations; changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, if our common stock is covered by analysts; successes or challenges in our collaborative arrangements or alternative funding sources; developments in the rehabilitation and industrial robotics markets; the results of product liability or intellectual property lawsuits; future issuances of common stock or other securities; the addition or departure of key personnel; announcements by us or our competitors of acquisitions or divestments, investments or strategic alliances; and general market conditions and other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance or otherwise disclosed herein. 28 Table of Contents Trading of our common stock is limited, which may affect our stock price. Trading of our common stock is currently conducted on Nasdaq. The liquidity of our common stock is limited, not only in terms of the number of shares that can be bought and sold at a given price, but also as it may be adversely affected by delays in the timing of transactions and low coverage by research analysts and the media, if at all. These factors may result in different prices for our common stock than might otherwise be obtained in a more liquid market and could also result in a larger spread between the bid and asked prices for our common stock. In addition, without a large public float, our common stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, and, as a result, the trading prices of our common stock may be more volatile. In the absence of an active public trading market, an investor may be unable to liquidate his or her investment in our common stock. Trading of a relatively small volume of our common stock may have a greater impact on the trading price of our stock than would be the case if our public float were larger. Additionally, sales by stockholders of substantial amounts of our shares of common stock, the issuance of new shares of common stock by us or the perception that these sales may occur in the future could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and you may lose all or a portion of your investment in our common stock. If we do not regain compliance with or continue to satisfy the Nasdaq continued listing requirements, our common stock could be delisted from Nasdaq. The listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market is contingent on our compliance with Nasdaqs conditions for continued listing, including a rule requiring our common stock to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. On December 12, 2024, we received a written notice (the Notice) from the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (Nasdaq) indicating that, for the last 31 consecutive business days, the minimum bid price of our common stock had been below the $1.00 per share minimum requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (the Minimum Bid Price Requirement). In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we have been provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until June 10, 2025, to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement. The Notice has no immediate effect on the listing or trading of our common stock. In the event we do not regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Requirement by June 10, 2025, we may be eligible for additional time to regain compliance. To qualify, we will be required to meet the continued listing requirement for market value of publicly held shares and all other initial listing standards for the Nasdaq Capital Market, with the exception of the Minimum Bid Price Requirement, and will need to provide written notice of our intention to cure the deficiency during the second compliance period, by effecting a reverse stock split, if necessary. If we meet these requirements, we will be granted an additional 180 calendar days to regain compliance. If we do not qualify for or fail to regain compliance during the second compliance period, then the Nasdaq staff will provide written notification to us that our common stock will be subject to delisting. In the event our common stock is no longer listed for trading on Nasdaq, our trading volume and share price may decrease and we may experience further difficulties in raising capital which could materially affect our operations and financial results. Further, delisting from Nasdaq could also have other negative effects, including potential loss of confidence by partners, lenders, suppliers and employees and could also trigger various defaults under our financing arrangements and other outstanding agreements. Finally, delisting could make it harder for us to raise capital and sell securities. You may experience future dilution as a result of future equity offerings. In order to raise additional capital, we may in the future offer additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock. We are a smaller reporting company and the reduced reporting requirements applicable to such companies may make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are a smaller reporting company as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of Regulation S-K, which allows us to take advantage of certain exemptions from various disclosure requirements available specifically to smaller reporting companies. For example, we may continue to use reduced executive compensation disclosure obligations, and, provided we are also a non-accelerated filer, we will not be obligated to follow the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We cannot predict or otherwise determine if investors will find our securities less attractive as a result of our reliance on exemptions as a smaller reporting company and/or non-accelerated filer. If some investors find our securities less attractive as a result, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and the price of our common stock may be more volatile. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 1C. CYBERSECURITY Risk Management and Strategy We perform a formal risk assessment each year. As part of the Company's risk assessment, we consider the potential for cybersecurity threats, including but not limited to interruptions, outages and breaches to its operational and financial systems. We have policies, processes, internal controls and tools to assess, identify, and manage material risks from potential cybersecurity threats. We utilize a combination of cybersecurity awareness training, manual processes, specialized software and automated tools, and third-party assessments to build our cybersecurity program. We engage third-party service providers, with significant information technology and cybersecurity experience, to assist with designing, implementing and managing our information technology infrastructure and cybersecurity program. We are also currently developing a cybersecurity incident response plan that establishes a formal framework for responding to cybersecurity incidents, including defining what constitutes a reportable cybersecurity incident; establishing specific escalation and communication channels; identifying parties responsible for managing and responding to each incident; and other preparedness and response activities. Governance The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (the "Audit Committee") provides oversight over our internal control program, including the adequacy and effectiveness of our information technology infrastructure and cybersecurity program. Each quarter, management provides updates to the Audit Committee regarding its internal control program, including any significant changes to its information technology infrastructure or cybersecurity program. Management also reports any material risks from cybersecurity threats to the Audit Committee. Management periodically provides the Audit Committee with updates on cybersecurity risks and/or trends. Our management team, specifically the chief executive officer and the chief financial officer, are responsible for the day-to-day administration of our business operations, including our risk management of cybersecurity risks. Management is responsible for the design and implementation of policies, processes and internal controls to manage our cybersecurity risks. Our management team regularly meets with their information technology resources, including its third-party service providers, to ensure that we are appropriately positioned to manage our cybersecurity risks. Our management team also sponsors periodic cybersecurity awareness training for employees. As of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we are not aware of any cybersecurity threats that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. For further discussion of the cybersecurity risks, see "Part IItem 1A. Risk Factors," specifically the risks titled "We are subject to cybersecurity risks to our systems, infrastructure, and technology, and data processed by us or third-party vendors. No matter how well designed or implemented our internal controls are, we will not be able to anticipate all cybersecurity threats, and we may not be able to implement effective preventive or detective measures against cybersecurity threats. While we maintain insurance that may cover certain liabilities in connection with certain disruptions, security breaches, and incidents, there can be no guarantee that our insurance coverage will be adequate to compensate us for the potential losses. Item 2. PROPERTIES Our principal executive office is currently located at 101 Glacier Point, Suite A, San Rafael, California, 94901, where we lease approximately 17,000 square feet. We currently lease a manufacturing facility in Brecksville, Ohio to support the production and service of the Ekso Indego Therapy and Ekso Indego Personal product lines. Outside of the United States, we lease approximately 3,000 square feet of office space at Friesenweg 20, 22763 Hamburg, Germany for our European headquarters. We do not own any real property. Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS From time to time, we are subject to legal proceedings and claims arising in the ordinary course of business. Based on our current knowledge, we believe that the amount or range of reasonably possible losses will not, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. The results of any litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, and an unfavorable resolution in any legal proceedings could materially affect our future business, results of operations, or financial condition. Regardless of the outcome, litigation can have an adverse impact on us because of defense and settlement costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. For additional information, please refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in our notes to the consolidated financial statements. Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Market Information and Dividend Policy Our common stock has been traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol EKSO since August 9, 2016. Prior to August 9, 2016, our common stock was eligible for quotation and traded on the OTC Market. The quotation of our common stock on the OTC market began on or about January 16, 2014. The closing price of EKSO stock as of February 28, 2025 was $0.52. As of February 28, 2025, we had approximately 175 stockholders of record of our common stock. This number does not include stockholders whose shares are held in investment accounts by other entities. We believe that the actual number of stockholders is greater than the number of holders of record. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Payment of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, restrictions imposed by financing arrangements, if any, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends, current and anticipated cash needs and other factors the board of directors deems relevant. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans See Item 12, Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities None. Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities None. Item 6. RESERVED 30 Table of Contents Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS You should read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion and other parts of this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, such as statements of our plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, which are based on the beliefs of our management, as well as assumptions made by, and information currently available to, our management. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K titled Risk Factors. For a discussion related to the results of operations for 2023 compared to 2022, refer to Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2023 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on March 4, 2024. Overview Our Business We design, develop, and market exoskeleton products that augment human strength, endurance, and mobility. The primary end market for our exoskeleton technology is healthcare, where our technology primarily serves people with physical disabilities or impairments in both physical rehabilitation and mobility. The majority of our sales are generated from our Enterprise Health products, which include the sales of products and services related to neurorehabilitation in clinical settings. We also provide products and services from our Personal Health market to individual users. In addition to our current products and services, we continue to explore business development initiatives to fuel growth and long-term value in our existing markets. Enterprise Health Market Our sales priority for Enterprise Health customers involves the education of clinical and executive stakeholders on the economic and clinical value of our robotic exoskeleton portfolio, including the EksoNR and the Ekso Indego Therapy devices. In tandem, we continue to leverage our EksoNR and Ekso Indego customer base to educate and mentor strategic target centers that specialize in stroke, traumatic brain injury ("TBI"), multiple sclerosis ("MS"), and spinal cord injury ("SCI") rehabilitation and treatment in specific geographies. Within our Enterprise Health market we also sell our EVO product to commercial and industrial companies that are focused on solving ergonomic challenges for their workers. These challenges range from injury prevention, fatigue reduction, and/or improved worker productivity. Sales of EVO are focused on applications that involve repetitive work at shoulder height and above. While EVO is a general-purpose product, we currently target specific vertical markets, including aerospace, automotive, general manufacturing, and certain construction trades. Personal Health Market Within the Personal Health market, we serve individual users with the Ekso Indego Personal, which is intended to provide overground ambulation in community and home settings. The primary use case for Ekso Indego Personal is for users with SCI. For this user population, confinement to a wheelchair can cause severe physical and psychological deterioration. As a result, the secondary medical consequences of paralysis can include difficulty with bowel and urinary tract function, osteoporosis, loss of lean mass, gain in fat mass, insulin resistance, diabetes, and heart disease. The cost of treating these conditions is substantial. On April 11, 2024, CMS approved a payment level of approximately $91,000 for Medicare reimbursement of the Ekso Indego Personal, which took effect on April 1, 2024. CMS reimbursement creates the possibility that we will see increased demand for this device as we are able to more economically serve the larger U.S. patient population suffering from SCI. Specifically, according to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, an estimated 305,000 individuals are currently living with SCI and another 18,000 suffer from new SCI injuries each year. According to the National Spinal Cord Injury Statistical Center, approximately 57% of individuals with SCI are enrolled in Medicare or Medicaid within five years post-injury. With Medicare reimbursement recently approved, we have begun selling products to individuals in this market through Durable Medical Equipment suppliers ("DMEs"). DMEs typically resell products from DME manufacturers, like us, to individual users. DMEs are responsible for the Medicare reimbursement process, which requires a physicians prescription and evidence of medical necessity to be submitted to and approved by Medicare before reimbursement is provided. Operating within the CMS reimbursement environment was new to us. Our DME submitted the first Ekso Indego Personal CMS reimbursement claim in May 2024, which claim was reimbursed in July 2024. All other ongoing CMS reimbursement claims for our devices are currently being managed through the appeals process. During the pendency of such appeals, we decided to put a hold on selling devices to DMEs for CMS reimbursement, instead focusing on refining and improving the CMS reimbursement process for our devices, naming National Seating & Mobility as the Companys exclusive distributor of the Ekso Indego Personal device within the U.S. complex rehabilitation technology industry, ramping up pilots and partnerships with both regional and national DME suppliers, and building up a sales backlog for the Ekso Indego Personal device. At the end of February 2025, we had approximately 25 people who we believe qualify for reimbursement. We anticipate submitting those claims to CMS over the next six to nine months, though we expect our processes and procedures to continue to be refined as we work to scale up this sales channel over time. We expect the majority of our revenue in 2025 will continue to come from Enterprise Health sales. Another key part of our growth strategy is seeking insurance coverage beyond CMS and seeking additional indications of use for our products. We believe that sales of our Personal Health products have the potential to be a significant growth driver for us as we work to gain coverage by other insurance providers, expand the products' indications of use beyond SCI and optimize our reimbursement submission processes. Nomad is currently for sale in limited volumes in the Personal Health market for use in a non-Company-sponsored single clinical study. Subject to clinical and patient feedback from clinical trials, we expect Nomad to be more broadly available starting in 2026. Economic and Industry Trends Our revenue is highly dependent on market demand for our exoskeleton products. This market demand is influenced by many factors including the level of awareness of robotic exoskeleton rehabilitation among the rehabilitation clinics with significant stroke, ABI, and SCI populations, the levels of reimbursements our customers will be able to receive, the level of reimbursement we will able to receive from Medicare on claims related to our Ekso Indego Personal, as well as conditions relating to overall economic growth and general business activity. Difficult and challenging economic conditions, including an increasingly inflationary environment, could lead to increased price-based competition. In particular, the effects of such increasing price-based competition may have an especially significant impact on certain products that we offer, including the EksoNR and Ekso Indego Therapy, which have a lengthy sale and purchase order cycle because they are major capital expenditure items and generally require the approval of senior management at purchasing institutions. Furthermore, we do business in the Americas, EMEA and APAC, which results in our business being impacted by demand changes in each of those regions, as well as changes in the strength of the local currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar. See Part IItem 1A. Risk Factors, specifically the risk titled Coverage policies and reimbursement levels of third-party payers, including Medicare or Medicaid, may impact sales of our products, for more information. 31 Table of Contents Results of Operations Consolidated Results of Operations: December 31, 2024 compared to the year ended December 31, 2023 (dollars in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 Change % Change Revenue $ 17,925 $ 18,279 $ (354 ) (2 )% Cost of revenue 8,414 9,200 (786 ) (9 )% Gross profit 9,511 9,079 432 5 % Gross profit % 53 % 50 % Operating expenses: Sales and marketing 7,308 8,472 (1,164 ) (14 )% Research and development 3,874 5,025 (1,151 ) (23 )% General and administrative 8,789 10,694 (1,905 ) (18 )% Total operating expenses 19,971 24,191 (4,220 ) (17 )% Loss from operations (10,460 ) (15,112 ) 4,652 (31 )% Other (expense) income, net: Interest expense, net (269 ) (302 ) 33 (11 )% Gain (loss) on revaluation of warrant liabilities 474 (133 ) 607 (456 )% Loss on modification of warrant (109 ) (109 ) * Unrealized (loss) gain on foreign exchange (965 ) 412 (1,377 ) (334 )% Other expense, net (1 ) (63 ) 62 (98 )% Total other (expense) income, net (870 ) (86 ) (784 ) 912 % Net loss $ (11,330 ) $ (15,198 ) $ 3,868 (25 )% (*) Not meaningful Revenue Revenue decreased $0.4 million, or 2%, for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023. The decrease in revenue was driven by a decrease in the average selling price for our Enterprise Health and Personal Health devices on an aggregate basis across all regions and a decrease in the volume of EksoNR subscriptions, partially offset by an increase in service revenue. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit increased $0.4 million, or 5%, for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily driven by cost savings in supply chain and a reduction in service costs. Gross margin increased to approximately 53% for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to a gross margin of 50% for the same period in 2023, primarily driven by cost savings in supply chain and a reduction in service costs. 32 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Sales and marketing expenses decreased $1.2 million, or 14%, for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023. The decrease was primarily due to lower headcount, discretionary payroll and consultant costs. Research and development expenses decreased $1.2 million, or 23%, for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to lower discretionary payroll costs and decreases in the Company's use of product development consultants. General and administrative expenses decreased $1.9 million, or 18%, for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to lower discretionary payroll, accounting and legal costs. Total Other (Expense) Income, Net Interest expense, net decreased 11% for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to lower interest expense related to the Promissory Note. Gain on revaluation of warrant liabilities of $0.5 million and loss on revaluation of warrant liabilities of $0.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2024 and December 31, 2023, respectively, were associated with the revaluation of warrants issued in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Gains and losses on revaluation of warrants are primarily driven by changes in our stock price. Loss on modification of warrant of $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 was due to the reduction of the exercise price of the May 2019 Warrants from $3.52 per share to $1.55 per share, in connection with the January 2024 Offering. There was no comparable amount for the year ended December 31, 2023. Unrealized loss on foreign exchange was $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to unrealized gain on foreign exchange of $0.4 million for the same period of 2023, primarily due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations producing unrealized gains and losses on our inter-company monetary assets and liabilities. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2024, $6.5 million of cash was held domestically and by our foreign subsidiaries. Cash consisted of bank deposits with third-party financial institutions. As described in Note 9. Notes Payable, net in the notes to our consolidated financial statements, borrowings under our secured term loan agreement with Banc of California are subject to a liquidity covenant requiring minimum cash on hand equivalent to the current outstanding principal balance, which is due in full in August 2026. As of December 31, 2024, $2.0 million of cash must remain as restricted. After considering cash restrictions, effective unrestricted cash as of December 31, 2024 was approximately $4.5 million. As of December 31, 2024, we had working capital of $11.3 million, compared to working capital of $12.1 million as of December 31, 2023. The decrease in working capital was primarily due to cash outflows from operations of $9.8 million. We have funded our operations primarily through the issuance and sale of equity securities and bank debt. On September 3, 2024, we sold 3,100,000 shares of common stock, a Pre-Funded Warrant to purchase 2,900,000 shares of common stock, Series A Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of common stock, and Series B Warrants to purchase an aggregate of 6,000,000 shares of common stock in an underwritten public offering (the "September 2024 Offering"), which generated net proceeds of approximately $5.0 million after deducting the underwriting discount and commissions and offering expenses paid by the Company. We are using the net proceeds from the September 2024 Offering for general corporate purposes, which may include growth and expansion of our Personal Health products as we work to increase our revenue following the establishment of Medicare CMS reimbursement of the Ekso Indego Personal device, research and development activities, selling, general and administrative costs, pursuing strategic initiatives, and meeting our other working capital needs. On January 16, 2024, we sold an aggregate of 3.0 million shares of common stock in a registered direct offering (the "January 2024 Offering") at a price of $1.55 per share, which generated net proceeds of approximately $3.9 million after deducting placement agent fees and our estimated offering expenses. 33 Table of Contents In October 2020, we entered into an At The Market Offering Agreement (the ATM Agreement) with H.C. Wainwright & Co., LLC (the Agent), under which we may issue and sell shares of our common stock, from time to time, to or through the Agent. Offers and sales of shares of common stock by us through the Agent may be made by any method deemed to be an at the market offering as defined under SEC Rule 415 or in privately negotiated transactions, subject to certain conditions. Such shares may be offered pursuant to the registration statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-272607) (the Registration Statement), which was declared effective by the SEC on June 20, 2023, and a related prospectus supplement filed with the SEC on July 28, 2023 (the ATM Prospectus). Pursuant to the Registration Statement and the ATM Prospectus, shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $5.0 million may be offered and sold, subject to certain SEC rules limiting the number of shares of our common stock that we may sell under the Registration Statement. In June 2023, we entered into an amendment to the ATM Agreement that removed the requirement that shares of our common stock may not be sold for a price lower than $6.75 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2024, we sold 105,049 shares of common stock under the ATM Agreement at an average price of $1.43, for aggregate proceeds of $0.1 million, net of commission and issuance costs. As of December 31, 2024, we had $4.1 million available for future offerings under the prospectus filed with respect to the ATM Agreement. Cash and Restricted Cash The following table summarizes the sources and uses of cash for the periods stated (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2024 2023 Cash and restricted cash, beginning of year $ 8,638 $ 20,525 Net cash used in operating activities (9,846 ) (12,054 ) Net cash used in investing activities (37 ) (157 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 7,769 348 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash (31 ) (24 ) Cash and restricted cash, end of year $ 6,493 $ 8,638 Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Net cash used in operating activities decreased by $2.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to the absence of payments related to the acquisition and integration of HMC, cost savings on supply chain, reduction in service costs and other efficiencies in operating activities. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2024, compared to the same period of 2023, primarily due to the reduction in manufacturing equipment purchases. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2024 was related to net proceeds of approximately $5.0 million from the September 2024 Offering after deducting the underwriting discount and commissions and offering expenses paid by us, net proceeds of approximately $3.9 million from the January 2024 Offering after deducting placement agent fees and offering expenses, proceeds of approximately $0.1 million from shares of common stock sold under the ATM Agreement, partially offset by approximately $1.3 million of principal payments towards the Promissory Note. Net cash provided by financing activities of $0.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, was generated from the sale of common stock through our ATM Agreement, which was partially offset by a principal payment related to our Promissory Note. 34 Table of Contents Material Cash Requirements and Going Concern Our material cash requirements include the following items, some of which are represented in the table of Contractual Obligations and Commitments: (1) employee wages, benefits and incentives, (2) the procurement of raw materials and components to support the manufacturing and sale of our products, (3) expenditures for the ongoing improvement and development of existing and new technologies, (4) debt repayments (for additional information see Note 9. Notes Payable, net in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K), (5) operating lease payments (for additional information see Note 10. Lease Obligations in the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in the Annual Report on Form 10-K), and (6) pursuing strategic initiatives. We expect that our operating cash requirements in the near term will continue to exceed cash provided by operations with the significant research and development activities related to the development of our advanced technology and commercialization of such technology into its medical device business and with the service of our Promissory Note with Parker Hannifin Corporation. As described in Note 1. Organization: Liquidity and Going Concern of the notes to our consolidated financial statements, management believes that substantial doubt exists about our ability to meet cash requirements 12 months from the issuance of such financial statements, and such substantial doubt is not alleviated by our plans. We do not expect, nor do our historical operating results suggest, that cash flows generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our material cash requirements in the long term. Management expects that our historical reliance on external financing, from both equity and debt financings, will continue to provide the capital necessary to meet its material cash requirements in the long term. Management has not yet determined the form such additional financing may take, but management expects that the most likely forms include one or more of the following: (i) underwritten offerings of shares of our common stock, (ii) sales of shares of our common stock under an "at the market" offering program, (iii) issuing shares of our common stock upon the exercise of warrants at reduced exercise prices, (iv) incurring indebtedness with one or more financial institutions, (v) sale of product line or technology, and (vi) the factoring of trade receivables. Contractual Obligations and Commitments The following table summarizes our outstanding contractual obligations as of December 31, 2024, and the effect those obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods (in thousands): Payments Due By Period Total Less than one year 1-3 Years Term loan $ 2,260 $ 156 $ 2,104 Promissory Note 3,437 1,250 2,187 Facility operating leases 953 481 472 Purchase obligations 1,263 1,263 Total $ 7,913 $ 3,150 $ 4,763 Refer to Note 15. Commitments and Contingencies in our notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our contractual obligations and lease commitments. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of December 31, 2024, we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K promulgated under the Exchange Act. 35 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Estimates Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Our estimates form the basis for our judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Our most critical accounting estimates include: the standalone selling prices used to allocate the contract consideration to the individual performance obligations in our device sales arrangements, which impact revenue recognition; the unobservable inputs and assumptions used by management in estimating the fair value of our warrant liabilities, which impacts net income or loss; the provision for credit losses on accounts receivable; the valuation of inventory, which impacts gross profit margins; the estimates made regarding the recoverability of our net deferred tax asset, which impacts our financial condition; the fair value of the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in our business combination; future warranty costs; accounting for leases; and useful lives assigned to long-lived assets. Standalone Selling Prices Our device sales arrangements contain multiple products and services, most often including the device(s) and service, both of which we have identified as distinct performance obligations. Revenue is allocated to each performance obligation based on its relative standalone selling price. Standalone selling prices are based on observable prices at which we separately sell the products or services. If a standalone selling price is not directly observable, then we estimate the standalone selling prices considering market conditions and entity-specific factors including, but not limited to, features and functionality of the products and services, geographies, type of customer, and gross margin targets. Changes in the relative standalone selling price between devices and service can have an impact on how transaction prices are allocated between revenue and deferred revenue. Warrant Liabilities We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to value our warrant liabilities at each reporting period, which requires the input of highly subjective assumptions, most notably the estimated volatility of our common stock over the expected term. We use our historical common stock volatility to estimate expected volatility over the warrant terms. Management also made uncertain estimates regarding the likelihood and timing of certain future events for application of the Lattice Model for the valuation of certain warrants. Changes in these assumptions could have potential material impacts on the estimated fair value of warrant liabilities. Provision for Credit Losses on Accounts Receivable We carry accounts receivable at invoiced amounts less an allowance (or "provision") for credit losses. We review accounts receivables for collectability and determine an allowance for credit losses. The allowance for credit losses on accounts receivables reflects the Companys best estimate of probable losses inherent in the accounts receivable balance based on historical bad debt expense, the aging of the accounts, known troubled accounts, customer payment history, and other currently available evidence. Inventory Valuation Inventory is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is computed using the standard cost method which approximates actual cost on a first-in, first-out basis. The cost basis of our inventory is reduced for any products that are considered excessive or obsolete based upon assumptions about future demand and market conditions. If actual future demand or market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional inventory write-downs may be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Deferred Tax Asset We estimate a valuation allowance in consideration of the realizability of our net deferred tax assets, primarily based on our assessment of the timing, likelihood and amounts of potential future income during which such items become deductible. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as we must determine the probability of various possible outcomes and estimate future amounts. Management does not believe it is more likely than not that we will generate future income in a time frame and amount sufficient to realize our net deferred tax assets. Changes in management's estimate of future income in the timeframe during which the temporary differences and carryforwards comprising our deferred tax assets become deductible could result in a material impact to our financial position including the recognition of a net deferred tax asset. 36 Table of Contents Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed in Business Combinations We allocate the fair value of the purchase price of an acquisition to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. Such valuations require management to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially with respect to intangible assets. Significant estimates in valuing certain intangible assets include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of projected future cash flows based on expected future growth rates and margins, discount rate used to determine the present value of these cash flows, future changes in technology and royalty for similar brand licenses, and asset lives. Management's estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and as a result, actual results may differ from estimates. Allocation of purchase consideration to identifiable assets and liabilities affects our amortization expense, as acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over the useful life, whereas any indefinite-lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortized. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are included in the consolidated statement of operations. Future Warranty Costs Sales of devices generally include an initial warranty for parts and services for one year in the Americas, two years in EMEA, and one to three years in the APAC region. A liability for the estimated cost of product warranty is established at the time revenue is recognized based on the historical experience of known product failure rates and expected material and labor costs to provide warranty services. Specific additional warranty accruals may be made if unforeseen technical problems arise. Alternatively, if estimates are determined to be greater than the actual amounts necessary, a portion of the liability may be reversed in future periods. At the end of each reporting period, we estimate our future warranty costs related to products sold during the period. This liability represents our best estimate of the costs we will incur to fulfill warranty obligations for products sold during the period. At least annually, we review and update our estimates based on actual warranty claims experience. Accounting for Leases In accordance with ASC 842, Leases, at the inception of an arrangement, we determine whether the arrangement is or contains a lease based on the unique facts and circumstances present, generally based on whether we have the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the use of an identified asset and whether we have the right to direct the use of an identified asset in exchange for consideration, which relates to an asset which we do not own. Operating lease liabilities and their corresponding right-of-use assets are recorded based on the present value of lease payments over the expected lease term. The interest rate implicit in lease contracts is typically not readily determinable. As such, we utilize our incremental borrowing rate to determine the present value of the future lease payments, which is a hypothetical rate based on our understanding of what our credit rating would be to borrow and resulting interest we would pay to borrow on a collateralized basis over a similar term an amount equal to the lease payments in a similar economic environment. Certain adjustments to the right-of-use asset may be required for items, such as initial direct costs paid or incentives received. Lease payments may be fixed or variable; however, only fixed payments are included in our lease liability. Variable lease payments may include costs such as common area maintenance, utilities, or other costs. Variable lease payments are recognized in operating expenses in the period in which the obligation for those payments is incurred. Useful Lives Assigned to Long-Lived Assets The useful life of an asset represents the period during which the asset is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to future cash flows. We estimate the useful lives of the Companys long-lived assets based on various factors, including the expected period of economic benefit of the asset in use, our intended use of the asset, economic factors such asset obsolescence and technological advances, any limitations imposed by legal, regulatory, or contractual requirements, and industry norms. These assumptions affect the timing and amount of depreciation expense, which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. Accounting Policies An accounting policy is considered to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our critical accounting policies reflect the more significant estimates and assumptions used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Refer to Note. 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Estimatesin the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and EstimatesRecent Accounting Pronouncements in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. 37 Table of Contents