Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue, and expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our results of operations may be adversely affected if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our results of operations to fall below our publicly announced guidance or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in the market price of our ordinary shares. Significant assumptions and estimates used in preparing our consolidated financial statements include those related to revenue recognition, deferred contract acquisition costs, acquired intangible assets, and income taxes. Risks Related to our Outstanding Senior Notes We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. As of April 30, 2024, we had $575.0 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.125% Senior Notes due July 15, 2029 (the Senior Notes) outstanding. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including: limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements; requiring a portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; and increasing our cost of borrowing. In addition, the indenture that governs the Senior Notes contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of substantially all of our indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and results of operations, which in turn are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We may not be able to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 45 Table of Contents If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. Our ability to restructure or refinance our debt will depend on, among other factors, the condition of the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants, which could further restrict our business operations. The terms of existing or future debt instruments and the indenture that governs the Senior Notes may restrict us from adopting some of these alternatives. In addition, any failure to make payments of interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness on a timely basis would likely result in a reduction of our credit rating, which could harm our ability to incur additional indebtedness. In the absence of such cash flows and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Any of these circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, any future credit facility or other debt instrument may contain provisions that will restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from any such disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations and any such failure to meet our scheduled debt service obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The indenture that governs the Senior Notes contains, and any of our future debt instruments may contain, terms which restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The indenture that governs the Senior Notes contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including, among other things, restrictions on our ability to: create liens on certain assets to secure debt; grant a subsidiary guarantee of certain debt without also providing a guarantee of the Senior Notes; and consolidate or merge with or into, or sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets to, another person. The covenants in the indenture that governs the Senior Notes are subject to important exceptions and qualifications described in such indenture. As a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants and may require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. We may not be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the relevant lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or cannot refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. As a result, our failure to comply with such restrictive covenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to repurchase some of the Senior Notes upon a change of control triggering event. Holders of the Senior Notes can require us to repurchase the Senior Notes upon a change of control (as defined in the indenture governing the Senior Notes) at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the applicable repurchase date. Our ability to repurchase the Senior Notes may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the Senior Notes or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms, if at all. A change of control may also constitute a default under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our other then-existing indebtedness. Our failure to repurchase the Senior Notes would result in a default under the Senior Notes, which may result in the acceleration of the Senior Notes and other then-existing indebtedness. We may not have sufficient funds to make any payments triggered by such acceleration, which could result in foreclosure proceedings and our seeking protection under the U.S. bankruptcy code. 46 Table of Contents General Risk Factors We may not benefit from our acquisition strategy. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or make investments in complementary companies, products, or technologies to augment our existing business. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete such acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we may not ultimately strengthen our competitive position or achieve our goals and business strategy, we may be subject to claims or liabilities assumed from an acquired company, product, or technology, and any acquisitions we complete could be viewed negatively by our customers, investors, and securities analysts. In addition, if we are unsuccessful at integrating future acquisitions, or the technologies associated with such acquisitions, into our company, the revenue and results of operations of the combined company could be adversely affected. Any integration process may require significant time and resources, which may disrupt our ongoing business and divert managements attention from operations, and we may not be able to manage the integration process successfully. We may not successfully evaluate or utilize acquired technology or personnel, realize anticipated synergies from acquisitions, or accurately forecast the financial impact of an acquisition transaction and integration of such acquisition, including accounting charges. We may have to pay cash, incur debt, or issue equity or equity-linked securities to pay for any future acquisitions, each of which could adversely affect our financial condition or the market price of our ordinary shares. The sale of equity or issuance of equity-linked debt to finance any future acquisitions could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed obligations and could also include covenants or other restrictions that would impede our ability to manage our operations. We may acquire development stage companies that are not yet profitable, and that require continued investment, thereby reducing our cash available for other corporate purposes. The occurrence of any of these risks could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Catastrophic events, or man-made events such as terrorism, may disrupt our business. A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, or significant power outage, could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The impact of climate change may increase these risks due to changes in weather patterns, such as increases in storm intensity, sea-level rise, melting of permafrost and temperature extremes in areas where we or our suppliers and customers conduct business. Some of our management members and other employees are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity, wildfires and other extreme weather events. If our or our partners abilities are hindered by any of the foregoing events, we could experience sales delays, supply chain disruptions, and other negative impacts on our business. In addition, acts of terrorism, acts of war, including the evolving conflict in Israel and Gaza and Russias war with Ukraine, other geopolitical unrest or health issues, such as a pandemic outbreak, or fear of such events, could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our partners, customers or the economy as a whole. Any disruption in the business of our partners or customers that affects sales in a fiscal quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results for that and future quarters. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if our disaster recovery plans prove to be inadequate. Our reputation and/or business could be negatively impacted by ESG matters and/or our reporting of such matters. There is an increasing focus from regulators, certain investors, customers, and other stakeholders concerning ESG matters, both in the United States and internationally, and companies across all industries are experiencing increased scrutiny of their ESG practices, positions, and reporting. Investors, customers, regulators, employees, and other stakeholders have focused increasingly on ESG issues, including, among other matters, climate change and greenhouse gas emissions, human and civil rights, and DEI matters. Expectations surrounding appropriate corporate behavior in these areas are continually evolving and often reflect a wide spectrum of viewpoints and interests. In addition, changing laws, regulations and standards relating to ESG matters are evolving, creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time-consuming. We communicate certain ESG-related initiatives and goals regarding ESG in our annual sustainability report, on our website, in our filings with the SEC, and elsewhere. These initiatives and goals, coupled with the uncertainty regarding compliance with evolving ESG laws, regulations and expectations, could be difficult to achieve and costly to implement. We could fail to achieve, or be perceived to fail to achieve, our ESG-related initiatives and goals. In addition, we could be criticized for the timing, scope or nature of these initiatives and goals, or for any revisions to them. If our ESG practices and disclosures do not meet evolving investor, customer, or other stakeholder expectations and societal and regulatory standards, or if we experience an actual or perceived failure to achieve our ESG-related initiatives and goals our ability to attract or retain employees and our attractiveness as an investment or as a business partner could be negatively impacted, which could adversely affect our business. 47 Table of Contents We are, or in the future will be, obligated to comply with new stringent climate-related reporting requirements under California climate-related reporting statutes, laws of member states of the European Union implementing the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, and other laws and regulations. These sustainability reporting frameworks will require us to provide, at least annually, detailed public disclosures about the greenhouse gas emissions and other climate-related effects our activities produce, the climate-related operating and financial risks we face, and the strategies we pursue to reduce and adapt to the impacts of climate change. We expect to incur substantial costs to prepare these disclosures. If we fail to compile, assess and report the required operating and accounting information in a timely manner and in accordance with mandatory reporting standards, we could be exposed to fines and other sanctions and sustain harm to our reputation. If we fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls and internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our ordinary shares may decline, which could adversely affect our business. As a public company in the United States, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure