Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and with our Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and audited consolidated financial statements included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023. As discussed in the section titled Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. Factors that could cause or contribute to such difference include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in the section titled Risk Factors under Part II, Item 1A in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Our fiscal year end is April 30, and our fiscal quarters end on July 31, October 31, January 31, and April 30. Our fiscal year ended April 30, 2023 is referred to as fiscal 2023, and our fiscal year ending April 30, 2024 is referred to as fiscal 2024. Overview Elastic is a data analytics company built on the power of search. Our platform, which is available as both a hosted, managed service across public clouds as well as self-managed software, allows our customers to find insights and drive artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning use cases from large amounts of data. We offer three search-powered solutions Search, Observability, and Security that are built into the platform. We help organizations, their employees, and their customers find what they need faster, while keeping mission-critical applications running smoothly, and protecting against cyber threats. Our platform is built on the Elastic Stack, a powerful set of software products that ingest data from any source, in any format, and perform search, analysis, and visualization of that data. At the core of the Elastic Stack is Elasticsearch - a highly scalable document store and search engine, and the unified data store for all of our solutions and use cases. Our platform also includes the ESRE, which combines advanced AI with Elastics text search to give developers a full suite of sophisticated retrieval algorithms and the ability to integrate with large language models. The Elastic Stack can be used by developers to power a variety of use cases. It is a distributed, real-time search and analytics engine and data store for all types of data, including textual, numerical, geospatial, structured, and unstructured. We make our platform available as a hosted, managed service across major cloud providers. Customers can also deploy our platform across hybrid clouds, public or private clouds, and multi-cloud environments. As digital transformation drives mission critical business functions to the cloud, we believe that every company will need to build around a search-based relevance engine to find the answers that matter, from all of their data, in real-time, and at scale. Our business model is based primarily on a combination of a paid Elastic-managed hosted service offering and paid and free proprietary self-managed software. Our paid offerings for our platform are sold via subscription through resource-based pricing, and all customers and users have access to all solutions. In Elastic Cloud, our family of cloud-based offerings under which we offer our software as a hosted, managed service, we offer various subscription tiers tied to different features. For users who download our software, we make some of the features of our software available for free, allowing us to engage with a broad community of developers and practitioners and introduce them to the value of the Elastic Stack. We believe in the importance of an open software development model, and we develop the majority of our software in public repositories as open code under a proprietary license. Unlike some companies, we do not build an enterprise version that is separate from our free distribution. We maintain a single code base across both our self-managed software and Elastic-hosted services. All of these actions help us build a powerful commercial business model that we believe is optimized for product-led growth. We generate revenue primarily from sales of subscriptions to our platform. We offer various paid subscription tiers that provide different levels of rights to use proprietary features and access to support. We do not sell support separately. Our subscription agreements typically range from one to three years and are usually billed annually in advance. Our subscription agreements are both term-based and consumption-based, with the vast majority of Elastic Cloud subscriptions being consumption-based. We sell subscriptions in various currencies, with the majority of our subscriptions contracted in U.S. dollars, and a smaller portion contracted in Euro, British Pound Sterling, and other currencies. Elastic Cloud customers may also purchase subscriptions on a month-to-month basis without a commitment, with usage billed at the end of each month. Subscriptions accounted for 92% and 93% of total revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We also generate revenue from consulting and training services. 24 Table of Contents We make it easy for users to begin using our products in order to drive rapid adoption. Users can either sign up for a free trial on Elastic Cloud or download our software directly from our website without any sales interaction, and immediately begin using the full set of features. Users can also sign up for Elastic Cloud through public cloud marketplaces. We conduct low-touch campaigns to keep users and customers engaged once they have begun using Elastic Cloud or have downloaded our software. As of July 31, 2023, we had approximately 20,500 customers compared to over 19,300 customers as of July 31, 2022. The majority of our new customers use Elastic Cloud. We define a customer as an entity that generated revenue in the quarter ending on the measurement date from an annual or month-to-month subscription. Affiliated entities are typically counted as a single customer. Many of these customers start with limited initial spending on our products but can significantly grow their spending. We drive high-touch engagement with qualified prospects and customers to drive further awareness, adoption, and expansion of our products with paid subscriptions. Expansion includes increasing the number of developers and practitioners using our products, increasing the utilization of our products for a particular use case, and utilizing our products to address new use cases. The number of customers who represented greater than $100,000 in annual contract value (ACV) was over 1,190 and over 1,010 as of July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The ACV of a customers commitments is calculated based on the terms of that customers subscriptions, and represents the total committed annual subscription amount as of the measurement date. Month-to-month subscriptions are not included in the calculation of ACV. Our sales teams are organized primarily by geography and secondarily by customer segments. They focus on both initial conversion of users into customers and additional sales to existing customers. In addition to our direct sales efforts, we also maintain partnerships to further extend our reach and awareness of our products around the world. We continue to make substantial investments in developing the Elastic Stack and expanding our global sales and marketing footprint. With a distributed team spanning over 35 countries, we are able to recruit, hire, and retain high-quality, experienced technical and sales personnel and operate at a rapid pace to drive product releases, fix bugs, and create and market new products. We had 2,995 employees as of July 31, 2023. Current Economic Conditions Recent and current macroeconomic events, including inflation, slower economic growth, political unrest, and concerns about the stability of banks, continue to evolve and negatively impact worldwide economic activity. Governmental and corporate responses to these factors, including rising interest rates, unpredictable and decreased spending, and layoffs, have added to the highly volatile macroeconomic landscape. We have experienced and, if economic conditions continue to decline, we may continue to experience longer and more unpredictable sales cycles, increased scrutiny of deals, slowing consumption and overall customer expenditures, and the impacts of changing foreign exchange rates with a strengthening or weakening U.S. dollar. We continue to closely monitor the macroeconomic environment and its effects on our business and on global economic activity, including customer spending behavior. Notwithstanding the potential and actual adverse impacts described above, as the pandemic has caused more of our customers to shift to a virtual workforce or accelerate their digital transformation efforts, we believe the value of our solutions has become even more evident. Restructuring To navigate the current economic environment, we have realigned our resources internally to drive greater efficiencies and rebalanced investments across all functions of the organization to reinvest some savings in key priority areas to drive growth. On November 30, 2022, we announced and began implementing a plan to align our investments more closely with our strategic priorities by reducing our workforce by approximately 13% and implementing certain facilities-related cost optimization actions. We incurred $0.7 million in restructuring and other related charges during the three months ended July 31, 2023. As of July 31, 2023, the implementation of the workforce reductions and facilities cost optimization was substantially completed. See Note 15 Restructuring and other related charges in our accompanying Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for additional information about this plan. We will continue to adjust, monitor, and curtail spending when and where needed to adapt to the current macroeconomic landscape and will reinvest some of the savings selectively in areas that we believe best position us to drive profitable growth. See Risk Factors included in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a discussion of additional risks. Key Factors Affecting our Performance We believe that the growth and future success of our business depends on many factors, including those described below. While each of these factors presents significant opportunities for our business, they also pose important challenges that we must successfully address in order to sustain our growth and improve our results of operations. 25 Table of Contents Increasing adoption of Elastic Cloud. Elastic Cloud, our family of cloud-based offerings, is an important growth opportunity for our business. Organizations are increasingly looking for hosted deployment alternatives with reduced administrative burdens. In some cases, users of our source available software that have been self-managing deployments of the Elastic Stack subsequently become paying subscribers of Elastic Cloud. For the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, Elastic Cloud contributed 41% and 39% of our total revenue, respectively. We believe that offering Elastic Cloud is important for achieving our long-term growth potential, and we expect Elastic Clouds contribution to our subscription revenue to continue to increase over time. However, we expect that an increase in the relative contribution of Elastic Cloud to our business will continue to have a modest adverse impact on our gross margin as a result of the associated third-party hosting costs. Growing the Elastic community. Our strategy consists of providing access to source available software, on both a paid and free basis, and fostering a community of users and developers. Our strategy is designed to pursue what we believe to be significant untapped potential for the use of our technology. After developers begin to use our software and start to participate in our developer community, they become more likely to apply our technology to additional use cases and evangelize our technology within their organizations. This reduces the time required for our sales force to educate potential leads on our solutions. In order to capitalize on our opportunity, we intend to make further investments to keep the Elastic Stack accessible and well known to software developers around the world. We intend to continue to invest in our products and support and engage our user base and developer community through content, events, and conferences in the United States and internationally. Our results of operations may fluctuate as we make these investments. Developing new features for the Elastic Stack. The Elastic Stack is applied to various use cases by customers, including through the solutions we offer. Our revenue is derived primarily from subscriptions of Search, Observability and Security built into the Elastic Stack. We believe that releasing additional features of the Elastic Stack, including our solutions, drives usage of our products and ultimately drives our growth. To that end, we plan to continue to invest in building new features and solutions that expand the capabilities of the Elastic Stack. These investments may adversely affect our operating results prior to generating benefits, to the extent that they ultimately generate benefits at all. Growing our customer base by converting users of our software to paid subscribers. Our financial performance depends on growing our paid customer base by converting free users of our software into paid subscribers. Our distribution model has resulted in rapid adoption by developers around the world. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, heavily in sales and marketing efforts to convert additional free users to paid subscribers. Our investment in sales and marketing is significant given our large and diverse user base. The investments are likely to occur in advance of the anticipated benefits resulting from such investments, such that they may adversely affect our operating results in the near term. Expanding within our current customer base. Our future growth and profitability depend on our ability to drive additional sales to existing customers. Customers often expand the use of our software within their organizations by increasing the number of developers using our products, increasing the utilization of our products for a particular use case, and expanding use of our products to additional use cases. We focus some of our direct sales efforts on encouraging these types of expansion within our customer base. We believe that a useful indication of how our customer relationships have expanded over time is through our Net Expansion Rate, which is based upon trends in the rate at which customers increase their spend with us. To calculate an expansion rate as of the end of a given month, we start with the annualized spend from all such customers as of twelve months prior to that month end, or Prior Period Value. A customers annualized spend is measured as its ACV, or in the case of customers charged on usage-based arrangements, by annualizing the usage for that month. We then calculate the annualized spend from these same customers as of the given month end, or Current Period Value, which includes any growth in the value of their subscriptions or usage and is net of contraction or attrition over the prior twelve months. We then divide the Current Period Value by the Prior Period Value to arrive at an expansion rate. The Net Expansion Rate at the end of any period is the weighted average of the expansion rates as of the end of each of the trailing twelve months. The Net Expansion Rate includes the dollar-weighted value of our subscriptions or usage that expand, renew, contract, or attrit. For instance, if each customer had a one-year subscription and renewed its subscription for the exact same amount, then the Net Expansion Rate would be 100%. Customers who reduced their annual subscription dollar value (contraction) or did not renew their annual subscription (attrition) would adversely affect the Net Expansion Rate. Our Net Expansion Rate was approximately 113% as of July 31, 2023. As large organizations expand their use of the Elastic Stack across multiple use cases, projects, divisions and users, they often begin to require centralized provisioning, management and monitoring across multiple deployments. To satisfy these requirements, our Enterprise subscription tier provides access to key orchestration and deployment management capabilities. We will continue to focus some of our direct sales efforts on driving adoption of our paid offerings. 26 Table of Contents Components of Results of Operations Revenue Subscription. Our revenue is primarily generated through the sale of subscriptions to software, which is either self-managed by the user or hosted and managed by us in the cloud. Subscriptions provide the right to use paid proprietary software features and access to support for our paid and unpaid software. Our subscription agreements are either term-based or consumption-based, with the vast majority of Elastic Cloud subscriptions being consumption-based. A portion of the revenue from self-managed subscriptions is generally recognized up front at the point in time when the license is delivered and the remainder is recognized ratably over the subscription term. Revenue from subscriptions that require access to the cloud or that are hosted and managed by us is recognized ratably over the subscription term or on a usage basis for consumption-based arrangements; both are presented within Subscription revenue in our condensed consolidated statements of operations. Services. Services is composed of implementation and other consulting services as well as public and private training. Revenue for services is recognized as these services are delivered. Cost of Revenue Subscription. Cost of subscription consists primarily of personnel and related costs for employees associated with supporting our subscription arrangements, certain third-party expenses, and amortization of certain intangible and other assets. Personnel and related costs, or personnel costs, comprise cash compensation, benefits and stock-based compensation to employees, costs of third-party contractors, and allocated overhead costs. Third-party expenses consist of cloud hosting costs and other expenses directly associated with our customer support. We expect our cost of subscription to increase in absolute dollars as our subscription revenue increases. Services. Cost of services revenue consists primarily of personnel costs directly associated with delivery of training, implementation and other services, costs of third-party contractors, facility rental charges and allocated overhead costs. We expect our cost of services to increase in absolute dollars as we invest in our business and as services revenue increases. Gross profit and gross margin. Gross profit represents revenue less cost of revenue. Gross margin, or gross profit as a percentage of revenue, has been and will continue to be affected by a variety of factors, including the timing of our acquisition of new customers and our renewals with existing customers, the average sales price of our subscriptions and services, the amount of our revenue represented by hosted services, the mix of subscriptions sold, the mix of revenue between subscriptions and services, the mix of services between consulting and training, transaction volume growth and support case volume growth. We expect our gross margin to fluctuate over time depending on the factors described above. We expect our revenue from Elastic Cloud to continue to increase as a percentage of total revenue, which we expect will continue to have a modest impact on our gross margin as a result of the associated third-party hosting costs. Operating Expenses Research and development. Research and development expense primarily consists of personnel costs and allocated overhead costs. We expect our research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars for the foreseeable future as we continue to develop new technology and invest further in our existing products. Sales and marketing. Sales and marketing expense primarily consists of personnel costs, commissions, allocated overhead costs and costs related to marketing programs and user events. Marketing programs consist of advertising, events, brand-building and customer acquisition and retention activities. We expect our sales and marketing expense to increase in absolute dollars as we expand our salesforce and increase our investments in marketing resources. We capitalize sales commissions and associated payroll taxes paid to internal sales personnel that are related to the acquisition of customer contracts. Deferred contract acquisition costs are amortized over the expected benefit period. General and administrative. General and administrative expense primarily consists of personnel costs for our management, finance, legal, human resources, and other administrative employees. Our general and administrative expense also includes professional fees, accounting fees, audit fees, tax services and legal fees, as well as insurance, allocated overhead costs, and other corporate expenses. We expect our general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars as we increase the size of our general and administrative functions to support the growth of our business. Restructuring and other related charges. Restructuring and other related charges primarily consist of employee-related severance and other termination benefits as well as lease impairment and other facilities-related charges. 27 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense. Interest expense primarily consists of interest on our 4.125% Senior Notes due 2029. Other income, net. Other income, netprimarily consists of interest income, gains and losses from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency, and miscellaneous other non-operating gains and losses. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes consists primarily of income taxes related to the Netherlands, U.S. federal and state, and foreign jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in jurisdictions outside the Netherlands and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions, non-deductible stock-based compensation, as well as one-time tax benefits or charges. Results of Operations The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented in dollars and as a percentage of our total revenue. The period-to-period comparison of results is not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Revenue Subscription $ 270,247 $ 231,814 Services 23,506 18,267 Total revenue 293,753 250,081 Cost of revenue (1)(2) Subscription 57,266 53,551 Services 20,211 19,428 Total cost of revenue 77,477 72,979 Gross profit 216,276 177,102 Operating expenses (1)(2)(3) Research and development 80,690 78,649 Sales and marketing 133,169 125,006 General and administrative 37,939 34,088 Restructuring and other related charges 725 Total operating expenses 252,523 237,743 Operating loss(1)(2)(3) (36,247) (60,641) Other income (expense), net Interest expense (6,306) (6,401) Other income, net 7,300 339 Loss before income taxes (35,253) (66,703) Provision for income taxes 13,255 2,848 Net loss $ (48,508) $ (69,551) 28 Table of Contents (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense and related employer taxes as follows: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue Subscription $ 2,381 $ 2,383 Services 3,013 2,369 Research and development 23,405 19,672 Sales and marketing 19,669 16,422 General and administrative 11,146 8,419 Total stock-based compensation expense and related employer taxes $ 59,614 $ 49,265 (2) Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets as follows: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Cost of revenue Subscription $ 2,976 $ 2,964 Sales and marketing 1,232 1,231 Total amortization of acquired intangibles $ 4,208 $ 4,195 (3) Includes acquisition-related expenses as follows: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Research and development $ 780 $ 2,480 General and administrative 37 Total acquisition-related expenses $ 780 $ 2,517 29 Table of Contents The following table sets forth selected condensed consolidated statements of operations data for each of the periods indicated as a percentage of total revenue: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 Revenue Subscription 92 % 93 % Services 8 % 7 % Total revenue 100 % 100 % Cost of revenue (1)(2) Subscription 19 % 21 % Services 7 % 8 % Total cost of revenue 26 % 29 % Gross profit 74 % 71 % Operating expenses (1)(2)(3) Research and development 28 % 31 % Sales and marketing 45 % 50 % General and administrative 13 % 14 % Restructuring and other related charges % % Total operating expenses 86 % 95 % Operating loss(1)(2)(3) (12) % (24) % Other income (expense), net Interest expense (2) % (2) % Other income, net 2 % % Loss before income taxes (12) % (26) % Provision for income taxes 5 % 2 % Net loss (17) % (28) % (1) Includes stock-based compensation expense and related employer taxes as follows: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 Cost of revenue Subscription 1 % 1 % Services 1 % 1 % Research and development 8 % 9 % Sales and marketing 6 % 6 % General and administrative 4 % 3 % Total stock-based compensation expense and related employer taxes 20 % 20 % (2) Includes amortization of acquired intangible assets as follows: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 Cost of revenue Subscription 1 % 1 % Sales and marketing % % Total amortization of acquired intangibles 1 % 1 % 30 Table of Contents (3) Includes acquisition-related expenses as follows: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 Research and development % 1 % General and administrative % % Total acquisition-related expenses % 1 % Comparison of Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 and 2022 Revenue Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Revenue Subscription $ 270,247 $ 231,814 $ 38,433 17 % Services 23,506 18,267 5,239 29 % Total revenue $ 293,753 $ 250,081 $ 43,672 17 % Subscription revenue increased by $38.4 million, or 17%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was primarily driven by continued adoption of Elastic Cloud, which grew 24% over the same period and increased to 41% of total revenue for the three months ended July 31, 2023 from 39% for the three months ended July 31, 2022. Services revenue increased by $5.2 million, or 29%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. The increase in services revenue was attributable to increased adoption of our services offerings. Cost of Revenue and Gross Margin Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Cost of revenue Subscription $ 57,266 $ 53,551 $ 3,715 7 % Services 20,211 19,428 783 4 % Total cost of revenue $ 77,477 $ 72,979 $ 4,498 6 % Gross profit $ 216,276 $ 177,102 $ 39,174 22 % Gross margin: Subscription 79 % 77 % Services 14 % (6) % Total gross margin 74 % 71 % Cost of subscription revenue increased by $3.7 million, or 7%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $3.8 million in cloud infrastructure costs due to increased Elastic Cloud subscription revenue. Cost of services revenue increased by $0.8 million, or 4%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $1.2 million in personnel and related costs, including increases of $0.7 million in salaries and related taxes and $0.6 million in stock-based compensation. These costs were offset by decreases in third-party contractor costs of $0.3 million and in facility, software and equipment costs of $0.1 million. Gross margin for services revenue was 14% for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to (6)% for the same period of the prior year. The increase in margin was primarily due to services revenue increasing at a higher rate, 29%, than cost of services revenue, which increased by 4%. We continue to make investments in our services organization that we believe will be needed as we continue to grow. Our gross margin for services may fluctuate or decline in the near-term as we seek to expand our services business. 31 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Research and development Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Research and development $ 80,690 $ 78,649 $ 2,041 3 % Research and development expense increased by $2.0 million, or 3%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year as we continued to invest in the development of new and existing offerings. Personnel and related costs increased by $1.4 million for the current period, while cloud infrastructure costs related to our research and development activities increased by $0.6 million. The increase in personnel and related costs includes an increase of $3.7 million in stock-based compensation, offset by a decrease in acquisition-related compensation of $1.7 million, a decrease in salaries and related taxes of $0.4 million, and a decrease in miscellaneous other employee-related costs by $0.2 million. Sales and marketing Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 133,169 $ 125,006 $ 8,163 7 % Sales and marketing expense increased by $8.2 million, or 7%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $5.0 million in personnel and related costs and a $3.8 million increase in travel costs. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $0.8 million in consulting expense. The increase in personnel and related costs included an increase of $3.2 million in stock-based compensation, an increase of $1.0 million in salaries and related taxes, and an increase of $0.9 million in employee benefits expense. General and administrative Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) General and administrative $ 37,939 $ 34,088 $ 3,851 11 % General and administrative expense increased by $3.9 million, or 11%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. This increase was primarily due to an increase of $3.8 million in personnel and related costs. The increase in personnel and related costs included an increase of $2.7 million in stock-based compensation expense and an increase of $1.0 million in salaries and related taxes. Restructuring and other related charges Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Restructuring and other related charges $ 725 $ $ 725 100 % For the three months ended July 31, 2023, we recorded restructuring and other related charges comprising employee-related severance and other termination benefits of approximately $0.7 million, while we had no such charges in the same period of the prior year. 32 Table of Contents Other Income (Expense), Net Interest expense Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Interest expense $ (6,306) $ (6,401) $ 95 (1) % Interest expense decreased slightly by $0.1 million, or (1)%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. Other income (expense), net Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 7,300 $ 339 $ 6,961 2,053 % Other income, net was $7.3 million for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to $0.3 million for the same period of the prior year. This change of $7.0 million was primarily due to an increase of $7.2 million in investment income due to new investments in marketable securities and higher interest earned on funds invested in money market funds. Provision for Income Taxes Three Months Ended July 31, Change 2023 2022 $ % (in thousands) Provision for income taxes $ 13,255 $ 2,848 $ 10,407 365 % The provision for income taxes increased $10.4 million, or 365%, for the three months ended July 31, 2023 compared to the same period of the prior year. Our effective tax rate was (38)% and (4%) of our net loss before taxes for the three months ended July 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Our effective tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in jurisdictions outside the Netherlands and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions and non-deductible stock-based compensation as well as one-time tax benefits or charges. The increase in tax expense is driven primarily by growth in business operations in jurisdictions where we generate taxable income and do not have any available tax credits or net operating losses to offset that income and a one-time charge of $7.4 million for income taxes associated with acquisition-related integration. We maintain a full valuation allowance against our U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets. We regularly assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. In making that assessment, we consider both positive and negative evidence related to the likelihood of realization of the deferred tax assets to determine, based on the weight of available evidence, whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Due to the cumulative U.S. losses during the prior twelve quarters, including permanent differences, and based on all available positive and negative evidence, as of July 31, 2023 and April 30, 2023, we have determined that it is more likely than not that our U.S. deferred tax assets will not be realized. However, given our current U.S. earnings and anticipated future earnings, we believe there is a reasonable possibility that within the next 12 months sufficient positive evidence of sustained U.S. profitability may become available to allow us to reach a conclusion that the U.S. valuation allowance will no longer be needed. Release of the valuation allowance would result in the recognition of material U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets and a corresponding decrease to income tax expense in the fiscal period the release is recorded. The exact timing and amount of the valuation allowance release are subject to change based on the level of sustained U.S. profitability we are able to actually achieve. Liquidity and Capital Resources As of July 31, 2023, our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $957.1 million. Our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities consist of highly liquid investment-grade fixed-income securities. We believe that the credit quality of the securities portfolio is strong and diversified among industries and individual issuers. 33 Table of Contents We have generated significant operating losses from our operations as reflected in our accumulated deficit of $1.1 billion as of July 31, 2023. We have historically incurred, and expect to continue to incur, operating losses and may generate negative cash flows from operations on an annual basis for the foreseeable future due to the investments we intend to make as described above, and as a result, we may require additional capital resources to execute on our strategic initiatives to grow our business. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities and cash from our future operations will be sufficient to fund our operating and capital needs for at least the next 12 months, despite the uncertainty in the changing market and macroeconomic conditions. Our assessment of the period of time through which our financial resources will be adequate to support our operations is a forward-looking statement and involves risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could vary as a result of, and our future capital requirements, both near-term and long-term, will depend on, many factors, including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support our research and development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the timing of new introductions of solutions or features, and the continuing market acceptance of our solutions and services. We may in the future enter into arrangements to acquire or invest in complementary businesses, services and technologies, including intellectual property rights. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong, and we could use our available capital resources sooner than we currently expect. In July 2021, we issued long-term debt of $575.0 million, and we may be required to seek additional equity or debt financing. In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, or if we cannot expand our operations or otherwise capitalize on our business opportunities because we lack sufficient capital, our business, operating results and financial condition would be adversely affected. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods presented: Three Months Ended July 31, 2023 2022 (in thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 37,812 $ (9,705) Net cash used in investing activities $ (55,095) $ (479) Net cash provided by financing activities $ 3,843 $ 3,397 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities during the three months ended July 31, 2023 was $37.8 million, which resulted from adjustments for non-cash charges of $81.8 million and net cash inflow of $4.6 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities, offset by a net loss of $48.5 million. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $57.1 million for stock-based compensation expense, $17.6 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $1.2 million of foreign currency exchange losses, $5.1 million of depreciation and intangible asset amortization expense, and $2.7 million in non-cash operating lease costs. The net cash inflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was the result of a decrease of $75.9 million in accounts receivable and a decrease of $5.6 million in prepaid expenses and other assets. These outflows were partially offset by a $29.1 million decrease in deferred revenue, a net decrease of $23.5 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses and accrued compensation and benefits, an increase in deferred contract acquisition costs of $21.1 million as our sales commissions increased due to increased business volume, and a decrease of $3.1 million in operating lease liabilities. Net cash used in operating activities during the three months ended July 31, 2022 was $9.7 million, which resulted from a net loss of $69.6 million adjusted for non-cash charges of $75.3 million and net cash outflow of $15.4 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities. Non-cash charges primarily consisted of $46.9 million for stock-based compensation expense, $17.4 million for amortization of deferred contract acquisition costs, $5.2 million of depreciation and intangible asset amortization expense, $3.0 million in non-cash operating lease costs, net foreign currency transaction loss of $1.8 million, an increase of $0.7 million in deferred tax assets, and amortization of debt issuance costs of $0.3 million. The net cash outflow from changes in operating assets and liabilities was the result of a decrease of $27.0 million in deferred revenue, an increase in deferred contract acquisition costs of $19.7 million as our sales commissions increased due to increased business volume, a net decrease of $18.4 million in accounts payable, accrued expenses, and accrued compensation and benefits, and a decrease of $3.2 million in operating lease liabilities. These outflows were partially offset by a decrease of $46.0 million in accounts receivable and a decrease of $6.8 million in prepaid expenses and other assets. 34 Table of Contents Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities of $55.1 millionduring the three months ended July 31, 2023 was primarily due to the purchase of marketable securities of $83.6 million, offset by cash provided by maturities of marketable securities of $29.1 million. In addition, we incurred $0.6 million of capital expenditures during the three months ended July 31, 2023. Net cash used in investing activities of $0.5 million during the three months ended July 31, 2022 was due to capital expenditures during the period. Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities of $3.8 million during the three months ended July 31, 2023 was due to the proceeds from stock option exercises. Net cash provided by financing activities of $3.4 million during the three months ended July 31, 2022 was due to the proceeds from stock option exercises. Contractual Obligations and Commitments Our principal commitments consist of obligations under our operating leases, which are primarily for office space, and purchase commitments to our cloud hosting providers. There have been no material changes to our contractual obligations and commitments discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2023. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of our accompanying Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for recently adopted accounting pronouncements and new accounting pronouncements not yet adopted as of the date of this report.