Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Quarterly Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 24, 2017 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers provides important context for our results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 , as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 as filed with the SEC on May 24, 2017 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We are a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. We develop, market, publish and deliver games, content and online services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, which include game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. In our games, we use established brands that we either wholly own (such as Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims and Plants v. Zombies), or license from others (such as FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars). We also publish and distribute games developed by third parties. Financial Results Our key financial results for our fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2017 were as follows: Total net revenue was $1,160 million , up 1 percent year-over-year. On a constant currency basis, we estimate that total net revenue would have been $1,165 million, up 1 percent year over year. Digital net revenue was $780 million , up 14 percent year-over-year. International net revenue was $708 million , up 20 percent year-over-year. On a constant currency basis, we estimate that international net revenue would have been $713 million, up 21 percent year over year. Gross margin was 56.8 percent , up 1.7 percentage points year-over-year. Operating expenses were $680 million , up 7 percent year-over-year. On a constant currency basis, we estimate that operating expenses would have been $669 million, up 5 percent year over year. Net loss was $186 million with diluted loss per share of $0.60 . $176 million of the net loss, or approximately $0.57 per share resulted from the application of the U.S. Tax Act. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $4,884 million . From time to time, we make comparisons of current periods to prior periods with reference to constant currency. Constant currency comparisons are based on translating local currency amounts in the current period at actual foreign exchange rates from the prior comparable period. We evaluate our financial performance on a constant currency basis in order to facilitate period-to-period comparisons without regard to the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates. 30 Table of Contents Trends in Our Business Digital Business . Players increasingly purchase our games digitally and engage with the live services associated with our portfolio of games. For example, the Ultimate Team mode incorporated into iterations of our FIFA, Madden NFL and NHL franchises and live services available digitally for our Star Wars, Battlefield and The Sims franchises have extended the life of those games by engaging players for longer periods of time. Our digital transformation is also creating opportunities in platforms, content models and modalities of play. For example, we have leveraged franchises typically associated with consoles and traditional PC gaming, such as FIFA, Madden NFL, The Sims, SimCity and Star Wars, to create mobile and PC free-to-download games that are monetized through a business model in which we sell incremental content and/or features in discrete transactions. We also provide our EA Access service on Xbox One and Origin Access service on PC which offer players access to a selection of EA games and other benefits for a monthly or annual fee. Our digital transformation also gives us the opportunity to strengthen our player network. We are investing in a technology foundation to enable us to build personalized player relationships that can last for years instead of days or weeks by connecting our players to us and to each other. This connection allows us to market and deliver content and services for popular franchises like FIFA, Battlefield and Star Wars to our players more efficiently. That same foundation also enables new player-centric ways to discover and try new experiences, such as our subscription-based EA Access and Origin Access services. We significantly increased our digital net revenue from $2,199 million in fiscal year 2015 to $2,409 million in fiscal year 2016 and $2,874 million during fiscal year 2017. We expect this portion of our business to continue to grow through fiscal year 2018 and beyond as we continue to focus on developing and monetizing products and services that can be delivered digitally. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. International sales are a fundamental part of our business, and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar (particularly relative to the Euro, British pound sterling, Australian dollar, Chinese yuan and South Korean won) has a negative impact on our reported international net revenue, but a positive impact on our reported international operating expenses (particularly the Swedish krona and Canadian dollar) because these amounts are translated at lower rates as compared to periods in which the U.S. dollar is weaker. Volatility in exchange rates remains elevated as compared to historical standards, and macroeconomic factors such as events related to the United Kingdoms vote to leave the European Union inject uncertainty. While we use foreign currency hedging contracts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange risk, these activities are limited in the protection that they provide us and can themselves result in losses. Mobile and PC Free-to-Download Games . The global adoption of mobile devices and a business model for those devices that allows consumers to try new games with no up-front cost and pay for additional content or in-game items, has led to significant growth in the mobile gaming industry. We expect this growth to continue during our 2018 fiscal year. Likewise, the wide consumer acceptance of free-to-download, microtransaction-based PC games played over the Internet has broadened our consumer base. We expect revenue generated from mobile and PC free-to-download games to remain an important part of our business. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games . In all major segments of our industry, we see a large portion of games sales concentrated on the most popular titles. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenue historically has been derived from games based on a few popular franchises, several of which we have released on an annual or bi-annual basis. The increased importance to our business of revenue attributable to our live services, has accelerated this trend. For example, we derive a material portion of our revenue from the Ultimate Team game mode which is available in our annualized FIFA, Madden NFL and NHL games. Recurring Revenue Sources. Our business model includes revenue that we deem recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized titles (such as FIFA and Madden NFL) and associated live services, our ongoing mobile business and subscription programs. We have been able to forecast revenue from these areas of our business with greater confidence than for new offerings. As we continue to leverage the digital transformation in our industry and incorporate new content models and modalities of play into our games, our goal is to continue to look for opportunities to expand the recurring portion of our business. Net Bookings . In order to improve transparency into our business, we disclose an operating performance metric, net bookings. Net bookings is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period. Net bookings is calculated by adding total net revenue to the change in deferred net revenue for online-enabled games. 31 Table of Contents The following is a calculation of our total net bookings for the periods presented: Three Months Ended December 31, Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2017 2016 2017 2016 Total net revenue $ 1,160 $ 1,149 $ 3,568 $ 3,318 Change in deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) 811 921 357 532 Net bookings $ 1,971 $ 2,070 $ 3,925 $ 3,850 Net bookings were $1,971 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, driven by sales related to FIFA Ultimate Team, Star Wars Battlefront II, and The Sims 4. Net bookings decreased $99 million or 5 percent as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 due primarily to lower sales of Star Wars Battlefront II, which launched during the three months ended December 31, 2017, as compared to Battlefield 1 , which launched during the three months ended December 31, 2016, partially offset by an increase in net bookings associated with our live services business. Digital net bookings were $1,230 million for the three months ended December 31, 2017, an increase of $135 million or 12 percent as compared to three months ended December 31, 2016. The increase in digital net bookings was driven by live services which grew $221 million or 39 percent year-over-year, primarily due to our Ultimate Team game mode and The Sims 4 ; and our mobile business which grew $9 million or 5 percent year-over-year, primarily due to FIFA Mobile . These increases were offset by a decrease of $95 million or 27 percent in our full game PC and console downloads due to lower net bookings associated with Star Wars Battlefront II as compared to Battlefield 1 , which launched during the three months ended December 31, 2016. Recent Developments Stock Repurchase Program. In May 2017, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the full Board of Directors, authorized a program to repurchase up to $1.2 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program expires on May 31, 2019. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase a specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 , we repurchased approximately 1.4 million and 3.8 million shares for approximately $150 million and $422 million , respectively, under this program. We are actively repurchasing shares under this program. Acquisition of Respawn LLC . On December 1, 2017 we completed the acquisition of Respawn. Respawn is a leading game development studio and creators of games including the critically-acclaimed Titanfall franchise. In connection with the acquisition, we paid $151 million in cash. In addition, we granted long-term equity awards in the form of restricted stock units to employees with a grant date fair value of $167 million. Furthermore, we may be required to pay variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones relating to the development of future titles, through the end of calendar 2022. The additional consideration is limited to a maximum of $140 million. U.S. Tax Act . On December 22, 2017, the U.S. Tax Act was enacted which significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rate, generally implementing a territorial tax system, and imposing the Transition Tax. We recorded a provisional $176 million tax charge during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as a result of the application of the U.S. Tax Act; $151 million of which relates to the Transition Tax. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. 32 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns and Allowances, and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games, and related content and services on game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition . We classify our revenue as either product revenue or service and other revenue. Product revenue. Our product revenue includes revenue associated with the sale of software games or related product content or updates, whether delivered digitally ( e.g., full-game downloads, extra-content) or via a physical disc ( e . g ., packaged goods), and licensing of game software to third-parties. Product revenue also includes revenue from mobile full game downloads that do not require our hosting support ( e.g. , premium mobile games) in order to utilize the game or related content ( i.e. can be played with or without an Internet connection), and sales of tangible products such as hardware, peripherals, or collectors items. Service and other revenue. Our service revenue includes revenue recognized from time-based subscriptions, games, content or updates that requires our hosting support in order to utilize the game or related content ( i.e. , can only be played with an Internet connection). This includes (1) entitlements to content that are accessed through hosting services ( e.g., microtransactions for Internet-based, social network and free-to-download mobile games), (2) massively multi-player online (MMO) games (both software game and subscription sales), (3) subscriptions for our Battlefield Premium, EA and Origin Access, and Pogo-branded online game services, and (4) allocated service revenue from sales of software games with a service of online activities ( e.g. , online playability). Our other revenue includes advertising and non-software licensing revenue. With respect to the allocated service revenue from sales of software games with a service of online activities (online services) mentioned above, our allocation of proceeds between product and service revenue for presentation purposes is based on managements best estimate of the selling price of the online services with the residual value allocated to product revenue. Our estimate of the selling price of the online services are comprised of several factors including, but not limited to, prior selling prices for the online services, prices charged separately by other third-party vendors for similar service offerings, and a cost-plus-margin approach. We review the estimated selling price of the online services on a regular basis and use this methodology consistently to allocate revenue between product and service for software game sales with online services. We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement . Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver the related products or services must be present. Fixed or determinable fee . If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable . Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable as the amounts become due, we generally conclude that collection becomes probable upon cash collection. Delivery . For packaged goods, delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. For digital downloads, delivery is considered to occur when the software is made available to the customer for download. For services and other, delivery is generally considered to occur as the service is delivered, which is determined based on the underlying service obligation. If there is significant uncertainty of acceptance, revenue is recognized once acceptance is reasonably assured. Online-Enabled Games The majority of our software games and related content have online connectivity whereby a consumer may be able to download unspecified content or updates on a when-and-if-available basis (unspecified updates) for use with the original game software. In addition, we may also offer a service of online activities (e.g., online playability) without a separate fee. U.S. GAAP requires us to account for the consumers right to receive unspecified updates or the service of online activities for no additional fee as a bundled sale, or multiple-element arrangement. We have an established historical pattern of providing unspecified updates ( e.g., player roster updates to Madden NFL 18 ) to online-enabled games and related content at no additional charge to the consumer. Because we do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) for these unspecified updates, we are required by current U.S. GAAP to recognize as 33 Table of Contents revenue the entire sales price of these online-enabled games and related content over the period we expect to offer the unspecified updates to the consumer (estimated offering period). Estimated Offering Period Because the offering period is not an explicitly defined period, we must make an estimate of the offering period. Determining the estimated offering period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. For example, in determining the estimated offering period for unspecified updates associated with our online-enabled games, we consider the period of time consumers are online as online connectivity is required. On an annual basis, we review consumers online gameplay of all online-enabled games that have been released 12 to 24 months prior to the evaluation date. For example, if our evaluation date is April 1, 2017, we evaluate all online-enabled games released between April 1, 2015 and March 31, 2016. Based on this population of games, for all players that register the game online within the first six months of release of the game to the general public, we compute the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game, based on when a player initially registers the game online to when that player last plays the game online. We then compute the weighted-average number of days for all online-enabled games by multiplying the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game by its relative percentage of total units sold from these online-enabled games ( i.e., a game with more units sold will have a higher weighting to the overall computation than a game with fewer units sold). Under a similar computation, we also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to an end consumer ( i.e., time in channel). Based on these two calculations we then consider the method of distribution. For example , physical software games sold at retail would have a composite offering period equal to the online gameplay plus time in channel as opposed to digitally distributed software games which are delivered immediately via digital download and thus have no concept of channel. Additionally, we consider results from prior analyses, known and expected online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors games in determining the estimated offering period for future sales. While we consistently apply this methodology, inherent assumptions used in this methodology include which online-enabled games to sample, whether to use only units that have registered online, whether to weight the number of days for each game, whether to weight the days based on the units sold of each game, determining the period of time between the date of sale to reseller and the date of sale to the consumer and assessing online gameplay trends. We recognize revenue from the sale of online-enabled games for which we do not have VSOE for the unspecified updates on a straight-line basis, generally over an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for physical games sold through retail and an estimated six-month period for digitally-distributed games. Deferred Net Revenue (online-enabled games) Because the majority of our sales are subject to a deferral period of generally six to nine months, our deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) balance is material. This balance increases from period to period by the revenue being deferred for current sales and is reduced by the recognition of revenue from prior sales that were deferred (i.e., the net change in the deferred balance). However, given the seasonal sales nature of our business, the net change in the deferred balance may be material from period to period. For example, because our sales have historically been highest in the fiscal third quarter, the deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) balance generally increases significantly in the third fiscal quarter. Similarly, because sales have historically been lowest in the first fiscal quarter, the deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) balance generally decreases significantly in the first fiscal quarter of a fiscal year. Other Multiple-Element Arrangements In some of our multiple-element arrangements, we sell non-software products with software and/or software-related offerings. These non-software products are generally music soundtracks, peripherals or ancillary collectors items, such as figurines and comic books. Revenue for these arrangements is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each deliverable using the relative selling prices of each deliverable in the arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy described below. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the software deliverables as a group and then allocated to each software deliverable. We determine the selling price for a non-software product deliverable based on the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE ( i.e. , the price we charge when the non-software product is sold separately) if available, third-party evidence (TPE) of fair value ( i.e. , the price charged by others for similar non-software products) if VSOE is not available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Determining the BESP is a subjective process that is based on multiple factors including, but not limited to, recent selling prices and related discounts, market conditions, customer classes, 34 Table of Contents sales channels and other factors. Provided the other three revenue recognition criteria other than delivery have been met, we recognize revenue upon delivery to the customer as we have no further obligations. We must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element is delivered, (2) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements, as applicable. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, or changes to the elements in the arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Principal Agent Considerations We evaluate sales of our interactive software games, extra-content, and services from our subscription offerings via third party storefronts, including digital channel storefronts such as Microsofts Xbox Store, Sonys PlayStation Store, Apple App Store, and Google Play, in order to determine whether or not we are acting as the primary obligor in the sale to the end consumer, which we consider in determining if revenue should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the storefront. Key indicators that we evaluate in determining gross versus net treatment include but are not limited to the following: The party responsible for delivery/fulfillment of the product or service to the end consumer The party responsible for the billing, collection of fees and refunds to the end consumer The storefront and Terms of Sale that govern the end consumers purchase of the product or service The party that sets the pricing with the end consumer and has credit risk Based on evaluation of the above indicators, we have determined that generally the third party is considered the primary obligor to end consumers for the sale of our interactive software games. We therefore report revenue related to these arrangements net of the fees retained by the storefront. Sales Returns and Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We reduce revenue for estimated future returns and price protection which may occur with our distributors and retailers (channel partners). Price protection represents our practice to provide our channel partners with a credit allowance to lower their wholesale price on a particular product that they have not resold to end consumers. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old wholesale price and the new reduced wholesale price. In certain countries for our PC and console packaged goods software products, we also have a practice of allowing channel partners to return older software products in the channel in exchange for a credit allowance. As a general practice, we do not give cash refunds. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze the following: historical credit allowances, current sell-through of our channel partners inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand, acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection allowances would change and would impact the total net revenue, accounts receivable and deferred net revenue that we report. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating the following: customer creditworthiness, current economic trends, historical experience, age of current accounts receivable balances, and changes in financial condition or payment terms of our customers. Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. The amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly as a result of a change in any of the evaluation factors mentioned above. Fair Value Estimates Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, the estimated fair value assigned to an acquired asset or liability has a direct impact on the amount 35 Table of Contents we recognize as goodwill, which is an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that technology. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration requires an assessment of the probability-weighted expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures the risk associated with the obligation. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the contingent consideration payable are forecasted earnings. Significant changes in forecasted earnings would result in significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts with guaranteed minimums. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units and amount of extra content that we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, number of platforms we release on, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Furthermore, if we conclude that we are unable to make a reasonably reliable forecast of projected net revenue, we recognize royalty expense at the greater of contract rate or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product, and therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product and service sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are generally charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. If impairment exists, then the assets are written down to fair value. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts, and therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both (1) the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and (2) the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax 36 Table of Contents credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carryback of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we realized significant U.S. pre-tax income for both the fourth quarter and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. As a result, we released the valuation allowance against all of the U.S. federal deferred tax assets and a portion of the U.S. state deferred tax assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance related to specific U.S. state deferred tax assets and foreign capital loss carryovers, due to uncertainty about the future realization of these assets. Our effective tax rate and resulting provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was significantly impacted by the U.S. Tax Act, enacted on December 22, 2017. The U.S. Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rates, generally implementing a territorial tax system and imposing the Transition Tax. The final calculations of tax expenses and tax benefits resulting from the U.S. Tax Act may differ from our estimates, potentially materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the U.S. Tax Act, our analysis of the U.S. Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates that we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and assertions. Reasonable estimates of the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act are provided in accordance with SEC guidance that allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. We expect to complete the accounting under the U.S. Tax Act as soon as practicable, but in no event later than one year from the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective tax rate. IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The information under the subheading Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards in Note 1 - Description of Business and Basis of Presentation to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 - or 53 -week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2018 contains 52 weeks and ends on March 31, 2018. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2017 contained 52 weeks and ended on April 1, 2017. Our results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 contained 13 weeks each and ended on December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. Our results of operations for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 contained 39 each and ended on December 30, 2017 and December 31, 2016, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. 37 Table of Contents Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as digital downloads or as packaged goods and designed for play on game consoles and PCs, (2) video games for mobile phones and tablets, (3) separate software products and extra-content and online game services associated with these products, (4) licensing our game software to third parties, (5) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (6) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. We recognize revenue from the sale of online-enabled games for which we do not have VSOE for the unspecified updates on a straight-line basis, generally over an estimated six-month period for digitally-delivered games and content and an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for physical games sold through retail. We provide two different measures of our Net Revenue. (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue, and (2) Net Revenue by Type, which is primarily based on method of distribution. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue by Type (Digital, and Packaged goods and other) than by Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue. Net Revenue Quarterly Analysis Net Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2017 , net revenue was $1,160 million and increased $11 million , or 1 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was driven by a $217 million increase in revenue primarily from the FIFA franchise and Mass Effect: Andromeda . This increase was partially offset by a $206 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield and Titanfall franchises. Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 547 $ 649 $ (102 ) (16 )% Service and other 613 500 113 23 % Total net revenue $ 1,160 $ 1,149 $ 11 1 % Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2017 , Product net revenue was $547 million , primarily driven by FIFA 18, Madden NFL 18, and The Sims 4. Product net revenue decreased $102 million , or 16 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was driven by a $218 million decrease primarily from the Battlefield franchise and Titanfall 2 . This decrease was partially offset by a $116 million increase primarily from Mass Effect: Andromeda, The Sims 4, and the FIFA franchise. Service and Other Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2017 , Service and other net revenue was $613 million , primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and Battlefield 1 Premium. Service and other net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased $113 million , or 23 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was driven by a $147 million increase primarily from FIFA Ultimate Team and Battlefield 1 Premium . This increase was partially offset by a $34 million decrease primarily from the Plants vs. Zombies franchise. Supplemental Net Revenue by Type As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally, we place a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business performance through a review of net revenue by type. 38 Table of Contents Our net revenue by type for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change Full game downloads $ 143 $ 169 $ (26 ) (15 )% Live services (a) 476 369 107 29 % Mobile 161 147 14 10 % Total Digital $ 780 $ 685 $ 95 14 % Packaged goods and other $ 380 $ 464 $ (84 ) (18 )% Net revenue $ 1,160 $ 1,149 $ 11 1 % (a) Live services net revenue is comprised of net revenue previously presented as Extra content and Subscription, advertising, and other through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. Digital Net Revenue Digital net revenue includes full game downloads, live services, and mobile revenue. Digital net revenue includes game software distributed through our direct-to-consumer PC platform Origin, distributed wirelessly through mobile carriers, or licensed to our third-party publishing partners who distribute our games digitally. For the three months ended December 31, 2017 , digital net revenue was $780 million primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Madden Ultimate Team , and FIFA Online 3 in Asia. Digital net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 increased $95 million , or 14 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase is due to (1) a $107 million or 29 percent increase in live services net revenue primarily driven by our Ultimate Team game mode and Battlefield 1 Premium and (2) a $14 million or 10 percent increase in mobile net revenue primarily driven by Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and FIFA Mobile. These increases were offset by a $26 million or 15 percent decrease in full-game download net revenue primarily driven by Battlefield 1. Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue Packaged goods and other net revenue includes revenue from software that is distributed physically. This includes (1) net revenue from game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, and (2) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of console platforms, personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (OEM bundles). For the three months ended December 31, 2017 , packaged goods and other net revenue was $380 million , primarily driven by FIFA 18 , Madden NFL 18 , and Mass Effect: Andromeda . Packaged goods and other net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 decreased $84 million , or 18 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was driven by a $162 million decrease in net revenue primarily from the Battlefield and Titanfall franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $78 million increase primarily from the Mass Effect and FIFA franchises. Net Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , net revenue was $3,568 million and increased $250 million , or 8 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was driven by a $769 million increase in revenue primarily from the FIFA and Battlefield franchises, and Mass Effect: Andromeda . This increase was partially offset by a $519 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Star Wars and Need for Speed franchises. 39 Table of Contents Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 1,829 $ 1,753 $ 76 4 % Service and other 1,739 1,565 174 11 % Total net revenue $ 3,568 $ 3,318 $ 250 8 % Product Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , Product net revenue was $1,829 million , primarily driven by Battlefield 1 , FIFA 17, and FIFA 18. Product net revenue increased $76 million , or 4 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was driven by a $482 million increase primarily from Battlefield 1 and Mass Effect: Andromeda . This increase was partially offset by a $406 million decrease primarily from Star Wars Battlefront and UFC 2 . Service and Other Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , Service and other net revenue was $1,739 million , primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and Battlefield 1 Premium. Service and other net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased $174 million , or 11 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was driven by a $338 million increase primarily from FIFA Ultimate Team and Battlefield 1 Premium . This increase was partially offset by a $164 million decrease primarily from Need for Speed (2015) and the Plants vs. Zombies franchise. Supplemental Net Revenue by Type Our net revenue by type for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2017 2016 $ Change % Change Full game downloads $ 475 $ 400 $ 75 19 % Live services (a) 1,385 1,079 306 28 % Mobile 488 461 27 6 % Total Digital $ 2,348 $ 1,940 $ 408 21 % Packaged goods and other $ 1,220 $ 1,378 $ (158 ) (11 )% Net revenue $ 3,568 $ 3,318 $ 250 8 % (a) Live services net revenue is comprised of net revenue previously presented as Extra content and Subscription, advertising, and other through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. Digital Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , digital net revenue was $2,348 million primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Battlefield 1 , and FIFA Online 3 in Asia. Digital net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 increased $408 million , or 21 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase is due to (1) a $75 million or 19 percent increase in full-game download net revenue primarily driven by Mass Effect: Andromeda and Battlefield 1, (2) a $306 million or 28 percent increase in live services net revenue primarily driven by our Ultimate Team game mode and Battlefield 1 Premium , and (3) a $27 million or 6 percent increase in mobile net revenue primarily driven by Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and FIFA Mobile. 40 Table of Contents Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , packaged goods and other net revenue was $1,220 million , primarily driven by FIFA 17 , Battlefield 1 and FIFA 18 . Packaged goods and other net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 decreased $158 million , or 11 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was driven by a $465 million decrease in net revenue primarily from the Star Wars and Need for Speed franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $307 million increase primarily from the Battlefield and Mass Effect franchises. Cost of Revenue Quarterly Analysis Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2016 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 352 64.4 % $ 389 59.9 % (9.5 )% 4.5 % Service and other 149 24.3 % 127 25.4 % 17.3 % (1.1 )% Total cost of revenue $ 501 43.2 % $ 516 44.9 % (2.9 )% (1.7 )% Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue consists of (1) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports leagues, movie studios and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) inventory costs, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs and losses on previously unrecognized licensed intellectual property commitments, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of product revenue decreased by $37 million , or 9.5 percent during the three months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory costs associated with Battlefield 1 and Titanfall 2 which were launched during the three months ended December 31, 2016 , and a decrease in intangible amortization. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in the royalty costs associated with our product launches during the three months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) royalty costs, (2) data center, bandwidth and server costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (3) inventory costs, (4) platform processing fees from operating our website-based games on third party platforms, and (5) credit card fees associated with our service revenue. Cost of service and other revenue increased by $22 million , or 17.3 percent during the three months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily due to an increase in royalty costs associated with higher sales from FIFA Ultimate Team and Madden Ultimate Team. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the three months ended December 31, 2017 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by $15 million , or 1.7 percent as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory and warehouse operations costs as a result of the closure of our Switzerland distribution business in fiscal year 2017, and an increase in the proportion of our digital net revenues to packaged goods and other net revenues, which generally have higher costs than our digital products and services. 41 Table of Contents Cost of Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Cost of revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2016 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 716 39.1 % $ 796 45.4 % (10.1 )% (6.3 )% Service and other 328 18.9 % 300 19.2 % 9.3 % (0.3 )% Total cost of revenue $ 1,044 29.3 % $ 1,096 33.0 % (4.7 )% (3.7 )% Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue decreased by $80 million , or 10.1 percent during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory costs associated with Battlefield 1 and Titanfall 2 which were launched during the nine months ended December 31, 2016 , a decrease in inventory and warehouse operations costs as a result of the closure of our Switzerland distribution business in fiscal year 2017, and a $26 million decrease in intangible amortization. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in royalty costs associated with our product launches during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue increased by $28 million , or 9.3 percent during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This increase was primarily due to an increase in royalty costs associated with higher sales from FIFA Ultimate Team and Madden Ultimate Team , offset by a $16 million decrease in intangible amortization. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by $52 million , or 3.7 percent as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory and warehouse operations costs as a result of the closure of our Switzerland distribution business in fiscal year 2017, and an increase in the proportion of our digital net revenues to packaged goods and other net revenues, which generally have a higher costs than our digital products and services. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with our digital platform, software licenses and maintenance, and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2016 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 329 28 % $ 285 25 % $ 44 15 % Nine months ended $ 985 28 % $ 870 26 % $ 115 13 % Research and development expenses increased by $44 million , or 15 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This $44 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $30 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount and workforce investments, (2) an $11 million increase in stock-based compensation, and (3) a $7 million increase in facilities-related costs. These increases were partially offset by a $12 million decrease primarily due to a loss on a royalty-based commitment and impairment on a royalty-based asset during the three-months ended December 31, 2016. 42 Table of Contents Research and development expenses increased by $115 million , or 13 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This $115 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $59 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount and workforce investments, (2) a $21 million increase in stock-based compensation, (3) a $14 million increase in facilities-related costs, and (4) a $12 million decrease primarily due to a loss on a royalty-based commitment and impairment on a royalty-based asset during the three-months ended December 31, 2016. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2016 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 230 20 % $ 240 21 % $ (10 ) (4 )% Nine months ended $ 511 14 % $ 511 15 % $ % Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $10 million , or 4 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This $10 million decrease was primarily due to a $10 million decrease in advertising and promotional spending. Marketing and sales expenses remained consistent during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, corporate functions such as finance, legal, human resources, and information technology, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2016 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 120 10 % $ 110 10 % $ 10 9 % Nine months ended $ 343 10 % $ 329 10 % $ 14 4 % General and administrative expenses increased by $10 million , or 9 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016 . This $10 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $6 million increase in contracted services primarily due to higher legal expenses, (2) a $5 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount, and (3) a $4 million increase in stock-based compensation. These increases were partially offset by a $9 million decrease in facility-related costs. General and administrative expenses increased by $14 million , or 4 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This $14 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $10 million increase in contracted services primarily due to higher legal expenses, (2) a $7 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount, and (3) a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation. These increases were partially offset by a $10 million decrease in facility-related costs. 43 Table of Contents Income Taxes Provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2017 Effective Tax Rate December 31, 2016 Effective Tax Rate Three Months Ended $ 170 (1,062.5 )% $ (5 ) 83.3 % Nine Months Ended $ 259 37.3 % $ 93 18.8 % The provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2018, adjusted for specific items that are required to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. Our effective tax rate and resulting provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was significantly impacted by the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the U.S. Tax Act), enacted on December 22, 2017. The U.S. Tax Act significantly revises the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rates, generally implementing a territorial tax system and imposing the Transition Tax. Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was negative 1,062.5 percent and positive 37.3 percent, respectively, as compared to 83.3 percent and 18.8 percent, respectively for the same periods in fiscal year 2017. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was negatively impacted by the provisional income tax effects of the U.S. Tax Act, offset by earnings realized in countries that have lower statutory tax rates and the recognition of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Without the provisional tax charge of the U.S. Tax Act, our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 would have been 37.5 percent and 11.9 percent, respectively. We have a March 31 fiscal year-end; therefore, the lower corporate tax rate enacted by the U.S. Tax Act will be phased in, resulting in a U.S. statutory federal rate of 31.6 percent for our fiscal year ending March 31, 2018, and 21.0 percent for subsequent fiscal years. When compared to the statutory rate of 31.6 percent, the effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 was higher primarily due to the income tax impacts of the U.S. Tax Act, offset by earnings realized in countries that have lower statutory tax rates and the recognition of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. We anticipate that the impact of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies may result in significant fluctuations to our effective tax rate in the future. Excluding excess tax benefits, our effective tax rate would have been negative 1,075.0 percent and positive 43.6 percent, respectively, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017. We recorded a provision for income taxes of $170 million and $259 million for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017, respectively, including $176 million which is a reasonable estimate of the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act. We recorded a reasonable estimate of $151 million related to the Transition Tax. The final calculation of the Transition Tax may differ from our estimates, potentially materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the U.S. Tax Act, our analysis of the U.S. Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates that we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts, including impacts from changes to current year earnings estimates and assertions. In addition, we provisionally recorded a tax charge related to the remeasurement of U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the reduction of the U.S. corporate tax rate and a tax benefit related to the deferred tax impacts of global intangible income. The impact of these, as well as certain other charges and benefits, were not material individually, or in the aggregate, and are provisional for the same reasons as stated above. Reasonable estimates of the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act are provided in accordance with SEC guidance that allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. We expect to complete the accounting under the U.S. Tax Act as soon as practicable, but in no event later than one year from the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act. We file income tax returns and are subject to income tax examinations in various jurisdictions with respect to fiscal years after 2008. The timing and potential resolution of income tax examinations is highly uncertain. While we continue to measure our uncertain tax positions, the amounts ultimately paid, if any, upon resolution of the issues raised by the taxing authorities may differ materially from the amounts accrued. It is reasonably possible that a reduction of up to $45 million of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next 12 months, a portion of which would impact our effective tax rate. The actual amount could vary significantly depending on the ultimate timing and nature of any settlements. 44 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of December 31, 2017 As of March 31, 2017 Increase/(Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,566 $ 2,565 $ 1 Short-term investments 2,318 1,967 351 Total $ 4,884 $ 4,532 $ 352 Percentage of total assets 57 % 59 % Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2017 2016 Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,077 $ 1,141 $ (64 ) Net cash used in investing activities (593 ) (498 ) (95 ) Net cash used in financing activities (508 ) (625 ) 117 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 25 (28 ) 53 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 1 $ (10 ) $ 11 Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $64 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . The decrease is primarily driven by a $160 million decrease in accounts receivables collections due to the timing of customer receipts and game launches during the three months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2016. This decrease was partially offset by a $46 million increase in operating cash flows as a result of sales related to the FIFA, Star Wars, and Need for Speed franchises and a $39 million increase in other assets primarily due to higher prepaid royalties during the nine months ended December 31, 2017, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $95 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 primarily driven by a $640 million increase in the purchase of short-term investments, and the payment of $150 million in connection with the acquisition of Respawn. This increase is partially offset by a $688 million increase in proceeds from the sales and maturities of short-term investments. Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $117 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 primarily due to a repayment of $163 million of our formerly outstanding convertible notes during the nine months ended December 31, 2016 and a $24 million increase in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and the purchase of ESPP during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . This decrease was partially offset by a $70 million increase in the repurchase and retirement of common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2017 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2016 . Cash Flow Reclassifications. The adoption of ASU 2016-09 at the beginning of fiscal year 2018 resulted in two changes to our cash flow presentation. First, excess tax benefits are now presented as operating activities rather than as financing activities. Second, cash payments to taxing authorities in connection with shares withheld to meet statutory tax withholding requirements are now presented as a financing activity rather than as an operating activity. Both of these changes had the effect of increasing our cash provided by operating activities and increasing our cash used in financing activities for the nine months ended December 31, 2017 and 2016. We recast our cash flow presentation for the nine months ended December 31, 2016 to reflect the adoption of ASU 2016-09. For more information, see Note 1 - Description of Business and Basis of Presentation to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to ASU 2016-09. Short-term Investments Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of December 31, 2017 , our short-term investments had gross unrealized losses of $8 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized gains of less than $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. 45 Table of Contents Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. Senior Notes In February 2016, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes and $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes. We used the net proceeds of $989 million for general corporate purposes, including the payment of our formerly outstanding convertible notes and the repurchase of our common stock, including under the $500 million stock repurchase program approved in February 2016 and completed in March 2016. The effective interest rate is 3.94% for the 2021 Notes and 4.97% for the 2026 Notes. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. See Note 11 - Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our Senior Notes, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. Credit Facility In March 2015 , we entered into a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. As of December 31, 2017 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. See Note 11 - Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to the above items, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. Financial Condition We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt repayment obligations, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to repay debt, strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2017 , approximately $3.1 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. As a result of the U.S. Tax Act, which generally implemented a territorial tax system, a substantial portion of this amount is available for repatriation. In May 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. We repurchased approximately 0.3 million shares for approximately $31 million under this program during the three months ended June 30, 2017. We completed repurchases under the May 2015 program in April 2017. In May 2017, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the full Board of Directors, authorized a program to repurchase up to $1.2 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program expires on May 31, 2019. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase a specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2017 , we repurchased approximately 1.4 million and 3.8 million shares for approximately $150 million and $422 million , respectively, under this program. We are actively repurchasing shares under this program. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. 46 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Note 12 - Commitments and Contingencies to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. 47 Table of Contents OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS As of December 31, 2017 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. 48 Table of Contents