Item 2.Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, plan, predict, seek, goal, will, may, likely, should, could, continue, potential (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, trends in our business, projections of markets relevant to our business, uncertain events and assumptions and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, statements related to our business, operations and financial results, industry prospects, our future financial performance, and our business plans and objectives, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect managements current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report under the heading Risk Factors, as well as in other documents we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2024. We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as required by law. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers provides important context for our results for the three months ended September 30, 2024, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2024 as filed with the SEC on May 22, 2024 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts Electronic Arts is a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. We develop, market, publish and deliver games, content and services that can be experienced on game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. At our core is a portfolio of intellectual property from which we create innovative games and experiences that deliver high-quality entertainment and drive engagement across our network of hundreds of millions of unique active accounts. Our portfolio includes brands that we either wholly own (such as Apex Legends, Battlefield, and The Sims) or license from others (such as the licenses within EA SPORTS FC and EA SPORTS Madden NFL). Through our live services offerings, we offer high-quality experiences designed to provide value to players, and extend and enhance gameplay. These live services include extra content, subscription offerings and other revenue generated in addition to the sale of our full games. We are focusing on building games and experiences that grow the global online communities around our key franchises; deepening engagement through connecting interactive storytelling to key intellectual property; and building re-occurring revenue from scaling our live services and growth in our annualized sports titles, our console, PC and mobile catalog titles. 29 Table of Contents Financial Results Our key financial results for our fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2024 were as follows: Total net revenue was $2,025 million, up 6 percent year-over-year. Live services and other net revenue was $1,309 million, up 1 percent year-over-year. Gross margin was 77.5 percent, up 1 percentage point year-over-year. Operating expenses were $1,185 million, up 10 percent year-over-year. Operating income was $384 million, up 2 percent year-over-year. Net income was $294 million with diluted earnings per share of $1.11. Net cash provided by operating activities was $234 million, up 109 percent year-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $2,563 million. We repurchased 2.6 million shares of our common stock for $375 million. We paid cash dividends of $51 million during the quarter ended September 30, 2024. Trends in Our Business Live Services Business. We offer our players high-quality experiences designed to provide value to players and to extend and enhance gameplay. These live services include extra content, subscription offerings and other revenue generated in addition to the sale of our full games and free-to-play games. Our net revenue attributable to live services and other was $5,492 million, $5,535 million, and $5,288 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively, and we expect that live services net revenue will continue to be material to our business. Within live services and other, net revenue attributable to extra content was $4,393 million, $4,374 million, and $4,140 million for the trailing twelve months ended September 30, 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. Extra content net revenue has increased as more players engage with our games and services, and purchase additional content designed to provide value to players and extend and enhance gameplay. Our most popular live services are the extra content purchased for the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises, that allows players to collect current and former professional players in order to build and compete as a personalized team, and extra content purchased for our Apex Legends franchise. Live services net revenue generated from extra content purchased within the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises, a substantial portion of which is derived from Ultimate Team within our global football franchise and from our Apex Legends franchise, is material to our business. Digital Delivery of Games. In our industry, players increasingly purchase games digitally as opposed to purchasing physical discs. While this trend, as applied to our business, may not be linear due to a mix of products during a fiscal year, consumer buying patterns and other factors, over time we expect players to purchase an increasingly higher proportion of our games digitally. As a result, we expect net revenue attributable to digital full game downloads to increase over time and net revenue attributable to sales of packaged goods to decrease. Our net revenue attributable to digital full game downloads was $1,343 million, $1,262 million, and $1,282 million during fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively; while our net revenue attributable to packaged goods sales was $672 million, $675 million, and $711 million in fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. In addition, as measured based on total units sold on Microsofts Xbox One and Xbox Series X and Sonys PlayStation 4 and 5 rather than by net revenue, we estimate that 73 percent, 68 percent, and 65 percent of our total units sold during fiscal years 2024, 2023, and 2022, were sold digitally. Digital full game units are based on sales information provided by Microsoft and Sony; packaged goods units sold through are estimated by obtaining data from significant retail and distribution partners in North America, Europe and Asia, and applying internal sales estimates with respect to retail partners from which we do not obtain data. We believe that these percentages are reasonable estimates of the proportion of our games that are digitally downloaded in relation to our total number of units sold for the applicable period of measurement. Increases in consumer adoption of digital purchase of games combined with increases in our live services revenue generally results in expansion of our gross margin, as costs associated with selling a game digitally is generally less than selling the same game through traditional retail and distribution channels. Increased Competition. Competition in our business is intense. Our competitors range from established interactive entertainment companies to emerging start-ups. In addition, the gaming, technology/internet, and entertainment industries are converging, and we compete with large, diversified technology companies in those industries. Their greater financial or other resources may provide larger budgets to develop and market tools, technologies, products and services that gain consumer success and shift player time and engagement away from our products and services. In addition, our leading position within the interactive entertainment industry makes us a prime target for recruiting our executives, as well as key creative and technical talent, resulting in retention challenges and increased cost to retain and incentivize our key people. 30 Table of Contents Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games. In our industry, we see a large portion of games sales concentrated on the most popular titles. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenue has been derived from games based on a few popular titles, such as EA SPORTS FC, EA SPORTS College Football, EA SPORTS Madden NFL, Apex Legends, Battlefield, and The Sims. In particular, we have historically derived a significant portion of our net revenue from our global football franchise, the annualized version of which is consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace. We transitioned our global football franchise to a new EA SPORTS FC brand in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. Our continued vision for the future of EA SPORTS FC is to create and innovate across platforms, geographies, and business models to expand our global football experiences and entertain even more fans around the world. Re-occurring Revenue Sources. Our business model includes revenue that we deem re-occurring in nature, such as revenue from our live services, annualized sports titles (e.g., EA SPORTS FC, EA SPORTS Madden NFL), and our console, PC and mobile catalog titles (i.e., titles that did not launch in the current fiscal year). We have been able to forecast revenue from these areas of our business with greater relative confidence than for new games, services and business models. As we continue to incorporate new business models and modalities of play into our games, our goal is to continue to look for opportunities to expand the re-occurring portion of our business. Free-to-Play and Free-to-Enter Games. We offer games in some of our largest franchises, including Apex Legends, The Sims 4, and the PC and mobile version of EA SPORTS FC, through a business model that allows consumers to access games with no-upfront cost. These games are then monetized through a live service associated with the game, particularly extra content sales. These business models are dominant in the mobile gaming industry and are becoming increasingly accepted in the online PC and console market. We expect to continue offering games through these business models across console, PC and mobile and expect extra content revenue generated through these business models to continue to be an important part of our business. Restructuring. In February 2024, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the 2024 Restructuring Plan) focused on aligning our portfolio, investments, and resources in support of our strategic priorities and growth initiatives. This plan reflects actions driven by portfolio rationalization, including costs associated with licensor commitments, as well as reductions in real estate and headcount. As of September 30, 2024, we expect the actions associated with this plan to be substantially completed by March 31, 2025. Net Bookings. In order to improve transparency into our business, we disclose an operating performance metric, net bookings. Net bookings is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period. Net bookings is calculated by adding total net revenue to the change in deferred net revenue for online-enabled games. The following is a calculation of our total net bookings for the periods presented: Three Months Ended September 30, Six Months Ended September 30, (In millions) 2024 2023 2024 2023 Total net revenue $ 2,025 $ 1,914 $ 3,685 $ 3,838 Change in deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) 54 (94) (344) (440) Net bookings $ 2,079 $ 1,820 $ 3,341 $ 3,398 Net bookings were $2,079 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024 primarily driven by sales related to our global football franchise, and our American football franchises (which includes EA SPORTS College Football and EA SPORTS Madden NFL). Net bookings increased $259 million, or 14 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023, primarily from our American football franchises, driven by the release of EA SPORTS College Football 25, partially offset by decreased sales of extra content for Apex Legends. Live services and other net bookings were $1,247 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, and increased $118 million, or 10 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023.The increase in live services and other net bookings was primarily driven by sales of extra content from Ultimate Team within our American football and global football franchises, partially offset by decreased sales of extra content for Apex Legends. Full game net bookings were $832 million for the three months ended September 30, 2024, and increased $141 million, or 20 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023 primarily from our American football franchises driven by the release of EA SPORTS College Football 25, partially offset by legacy FIFA titles within our global football franchise. 31 Table of Contents CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from sales of our games, and related extra content and services that can be experienced on game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. Our product and service offerings include, but are not limited to, the following: full games with both online and offline functionality (Games with Services), which generally includes (1) the initial game delivered digitally or via physical disc at the time of sale and typically provide access to offline core game content (software license); (2) updates on a when-and-if-available basis, such as software patches or updates, and/or additional free content to be delivered in the future (future update rights); and (3) a hosted connection for online playability (online hosting); full games with online-only functionality which require an Internet connection to access all gameplay and functionality (Online-Hosted Service Games); extra content related to Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games which provides access to additional in-game content; subscriptions, such as EA Play and EA Play Pro, that generally offer access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits typically for a recurring monthly or annual fee; and licensing to third parties to distribute and host our games and content. We evaluate and recognize revenue by: identifying the contract(s) with the customer; identifying the performance obligations in the contract; determining the transaction price; allocating the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract; and recognizing revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied through the transfer of a promised good or service to a customer (i.e., transfer of control). Certain of our full game and/or extra content are sold to resellers with a contingency that the full game and/or extra content cannot be resold prior to a specific date (Street Date Contingency). We recognize revenue for transactions that have a Street Date Contingency when the Street Date Contingency is removed and the full game and/or extra content can be resold by the reseller. For digital full game and/or extra content downloads sold to customers, we recognize revenue when the full game and/or extra content is made available for download to the customer. Online-Enabled Games Games with Services. Our sales of Games with Services are evaluated to determine whether the software license, future update rights and the online hosting are distinct and separable. Sales of Games with Services are generally determined to have three distinct performance obligations: software license, future update rights, and the online hosting. Since we do not sell the performance obligations on a stand-alone basis, we consider market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate the stand-alone selling price for each performance obligation. For Games with Services, generally 75 percent of the sales price is allocated to the software license performance obligation and recognized at a point in time when control of the license has been transferred to the customer. The remaining 25 percent is allocated to the future update rights and the online hosting performance obligations and recognized ratably as the service is provided (over the Estimated Offering Period). 32 Table of Contents Online-Hosted Service Games. Sales of our Online-Hosted Service Games are determined to have one distinct performance obligation: the online hosting. We recognize revenue from these arrangements ratably as the service is provided (over the Estimated Offering Period). Extra Content. Revenue received from sales of downloadable content are derived primarily from the sale of virtual currencies and digital in-game content that are designed to extend and enhance players game experience. Sales of extra content are accounted for in a manner consistent with the treatment for our Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games as discussed above, depending upon whether or not the extra content has offline functionality. That is, if the extra content has offline functionality, then the extra content is accounted for similarly to Games with Services (generally determined to have three distinct performance obligations: software license, future update rights, and the online hosting). If the extra content does not have offline functionality, then the extra content is determined to have one distinct performance obligation: the online-hosted service. Subscriptions Sales of our subscriptions are determined to have one performance obligation: the online hosting. We recognize revenue from these arrangements ratably over the subscription term as the performance obligation is satisfied. Licensing Revenue We utilize third-party licensees to distribute and host our games and content in accordance with license agreements, for which the licensees typically pay us a fixed minimum guarantee and/or sales-based royalties. These arrangements typically include multiple performance obligations, such as a time-based license of software and future update rights. We recognize as revenue a portion of the minimum guarantee when we transfer control of the license of software (generally upon commercial launch) and the remaining portion ratably over the contractual term in which we provide the licensee with future update rights. Any sales-based royalties are generally recognized as the related sales occur by the licensee. Significant Judgments around Revenue Arrangements Identifying performance obligations. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods and services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, (i.e., the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available), and are distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., it is separately identifiable from other goods or services in the contract). To the extent a contract includes multiple promises, we must apply judgment to determine whether those promises are separate and distinct performance obligations. If these criteria are not met, the promises are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. Determining the transaction price.The transaction price is determined based on the consideration that we will be entitled to receive in exchange for transferring our goods and services to the customer. Determining the transaction price often requires judgment, based on an assessment of contractual terms and business practices. It further includes review of variable consideration such as discounts, sales returns, price protection, and rebates, which is estimated at the time of the transaction. In addition, the transaction price does not include an estimate of the variable consideration related to sales-based royalties. Sales-based royalties are recognized as the sales occur. Allocating the transaction price. Allocating the transaction price requires that we determine an estimate of the relative stand-alone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. Determining the relative stand-alone selling price is inherently subjective, especially in situations where we do not sell the performance obligation on a stand-alone basis (which occurs in the majority of our transactions). In those situations, we determine the relative stand-alone selling price based on various observable inputs using all information that is reasonably available. Examples of observable inputs and information include: historical internal pricing data, cost plus margin analysis, pre-release versus post-release costs, and pricing data from competitors to the extent the data is available. The results of our analysis resulted in a specific percentage of the transaction price being allocated to each performance obligation. Determining the Estimated Offering Period. Because the offering period is not an explicitly defined period, we must make an estimate of the offering period for the service-related performance obligations (i.e., future update rights and online hosting). Determining the Estimated Offering Period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision. Generally, we consider the average period of time customers are online when estimating the offering period. We also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to the customer (i.e., time in channel). Based on these two factors, we then consider the method of distribution. For example, games and extra content sold at 33 Table of Contents retail would have a composite offering period equal to the online gameplay period plus time in channel as opposed to digitally-distributed games and extra content which are delivered immediately via digital download and therefore, the offering period is estimated to be only the online gameplay period. Additionally, we consider results from prior analyses, known and expected online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors games in determining the Estimated Offering Period for future sales. We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of future update rights and online hosting to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our games and extra content are experienced. We recognize revenue for future update rights and online hosting performance obligations ratably on a straight-line basis over this period as there is a consistent pattern of delivery for these performance obligations. Revenue for service-related performance obligations for digitally-distributed games and extra content is recognized over an estimated eight-month period beginning in the month of sale, revenue for service-related performance obligations for games and extra content sold through retail is recognized over an estimated ten-month period beginning in the month of sale, and revenue for service related performance obligations related to our PC and console free-to-play games is recognized generally over a twelve-month period beginning in the month of sale. Principal Agent Considerations We evaluate sales to end customers of our full games and related content via third-party storefronts, including digital storefronts such as Microsofts Xbox Store, Sonys PlayStation Store, Apple App Store, and Google Play Store, in order to determine whether or not we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer, which we consider in determining if revenue should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the third-party storefront. An entity is the principal if it controls a good or service before it is transferred to the end customer. Key indicators that we evaluate in determining gross versus net treatment include but are not limited to the following: the underlying contract terms and conditions between the various parties to the transaction; which party is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service to the end customer; which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service; and which party has title risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to the end customer. Based on an evaluation of the above indicators, except as discussed below, we have determined that generally the third party is considered the principal to end customers for the sale of our full games and related content. We therefore report revenue related to these arrangements net of the fees retained by the storefront. However, for sales arrangements via Apple App Store and Google Play Store, EA is considered the principal to the end customer and thus, we report revenue on a gross basis and mobile platform fees are reported within cost of revenue. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both (1) the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and (2) the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carryforwards. We do not recognize any deferred taxes related to the U.S. taxes on foreign earnings as we recognize these taxes as a period cost. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carryback of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence and this evaluation may involve assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. 34 Table of Contents Every quarter, we perform a realizability analysis to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our Swiss deferred tax asset realizability analysis relies upon future Swiss taxable income as the primary source of taxable income but considers all available sources of Swiss income based on the positive and negative evidence. We give more weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. However, estimating future Swiss taxable income requires judgment, specifically related to assumptions about expected growth rates of future Swiss taxable income, which are based primarily on third party market and industry growth data. Actual results that differ materially from those estimates could have a material impact on our valuation allowance assessment. Swiss interest rates have an impact on the valuation allowance and are based on published Swiss guidance, which generally occurs in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. Any significant changes to such interest rates could result in a material impact to the valuation allowance and to our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We have adjusted our valuation allowance for changes in the published interest rates in the past and we may do so again in the future. Switzerland has a seven-year carryforward period and does not permit the carry back of losses. Actions we take in connection with acquisitions could also impact the utilization of our Swiss deferred tax asset. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective tax rate. IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The information under the subheading Other Recently Issued Accounting Standards in Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of Presentation to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2025 contains 52 weeks and ends on March 29, 2025. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2024 contained 52 weeks and ended on March 30, 2024. Our results of operations for the three and six months ended September 30, 2024 contained 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively, and ended on September 28, 2024. Our results of operations for the three and six months ended September 30, 2023 contained 13 weeks and 26 weeks, respectively, and ended on September 30, 2023. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) full games sold as digital downloads or as packaged goods and designed for play on game consoles and PCs, (2) live services which primarily includes sales of extra content for console, PC, and mobile games, (3) subscriptions that generally offer access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits, and (4) licensing our games to third parties to distribute and host our games. 35 Table of Contents Net Revenue Quarterly Analysis Net Revenue Net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 was $2,025 million, primarily driven by sales related to our global football and American football franchises, and Apex Legends. Net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased $111 million as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was due to a $301 million increase in net revenue primarily from our American football franchises driven by the release of EA SPORTS College Football 25, partially offset by a $190 million decrease in net revenue primarily driven by decreased sales of extra content for Apex Legends, andthe prior year release of Star Wars Jedi: Survivor. Net Revenue by Composition Our net revenue by composition for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Full game downloads $ 475 $ 346 $ 129 37 % Packaged goods 241 275 (34) (12) % Full game $ 716 $ 621 $ 95 15 % Live services and other $ 1,309 $ 1,293 $ 16 1 % Total net revenue $ 2,025 $ 1,914 $ 111 6 % Full Game Net Revenue Full game net revenue includes full game downloads and packaged goods. Full game downloads primarily includes revenue from digital sales of full games on console, PC, and certain licensing revenue. Packaged goods primarily includes revenue from software that is sold physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers. For the three months ended September 30, 2024, full game net revenue was $716 million, primarily driven by the releases of EA SPORTS FC 25, EA SPORTSCollege Football 25, and EA SPORTSMadden NFL 25. Full game net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased $95 million, or 15 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to our American football franchises driven by EA SPORTS College Football 25, partially offset by a decrease in net revenue from legacy FIFA titles within our global football franchise, and the prior year release of Star Wars Jedi: Survivor. Live Services and Other Net Revenue Live services and other net revenue primarily includes revenue from sales of extra content for console, PC, and mobile games, certain licensing revenue, subscriptions, and advertising. For the three months ended September 30, 2024, live services and other net revenue was $1,309 million, primarily driven by sales of extra content for our global football franchise, Apex Legends, and The Sims 4. Live services and other net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 increased $16 million, or 1 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was primarily due to sales of extra contentfrom our American football and global football franchises, partially offset by decreased sales of extra content for Apex Legends. 36 Table of Contents Net Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Net Revenue Net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2024 was $3,685 million, primarily driven by sales related to our global football and American football franchises, and Apex Legends. Net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2024 decreased $153 million as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was driven by a $509 million decrease in net revenue primarily due to the prior year release of Star Wars Jedi: Survivor and decreased sales of extra content for Apex Legends, partially offset by a $356 million increase in net revenue primarily from our American football franchises driven by the release of EA SPORTS College Football 25. Net Revenue by Composition Our net revenue by composition for the six months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 was as follows (in millions): Six Months Ended September 30, 2024 2023 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Full game downloads $ 665 $ 647 $ 18 3 % Packaged goods 301 417 (116) (28) % Full game $ 966 $ 1,064 $ (98) (9) % Live services and other $ 2,719 $ 2,774 $ (55) (2) % Total net revenue $ 3,685 $ 3,838 $ (153) (4) % Full Game Net Revenue For the six months ended September 30, 2024, full game net revenue was $966 million, primarily driven by EA SPORTS FC 25, EA SPORTSCollege Football 25, EA SPORTS FC 24, and EA SPORTS Madden NFL 25.Full game net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2024 decreased $98 million, or 9 percent, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was primarily driven by the prior year release of Star Wars Jedi: Survivor, and legacy FIFA titles within our global football franchise, partially offset by our American football franchises driven by the release of EA SPORTS College Football 25, and our EA SPORTS FC franchise. Live Services and Other Net Revenue For the six months ended September 30, 2024, live services and other net revenue was $2,719 million, primarily driven by sales of extra content for our global football franchise, Apex Legends, and our American football franchises. Live services and other net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2024 decreased $55 million, or 2 percent, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was primarily driven by decreased sales of extra content for Apex Legends, partially offset by an increase in net revenue primarily driven by sales of extra content for Ultimate Team within our global football and American football franchises. Cost of Revenue Quarterly Analysis Cost of revenue consists of (1) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports leagues, movie studios and other organizations, and independent software developers, (2) mobile platform fees associated with our mobile revenue (for transactions in which we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer), (3) data center, bandwidth and server costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (4) inventory costs, including manufacturing royalties, (5) payment processing fees, (6) amortization and impairments of certain intangible assets, and (7) personnel-related costs. 37 Table of Contents Cost of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 was as follows (in millions): September 30, 2024 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2023 % of Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Net Revenue $ 456 23 % $ 456 24 % % (1) % Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue remained flat during the three months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to an increase in royalty costs due to the mix of sales from royalty bearing titles, offset by a decrease in platform and online hosting fees. Cost of Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Cost of revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 was as follows (in millions): September 30, 2024 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2023 % of Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Net Revenue $ 719 20 % $ 824 21 % (13) % (1) % Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue decreased by $105 million during the six months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in royalty costs associated with our global football franchise and the mix of sales from royalty bearing titles, and a decrease in platform and online hosting fees. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, external third-party development costs, contracted services, and depreciation. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with our digital platform, software licenses and maintenance, and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three and six months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2024 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2023 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 648 32 % $ 602 32 % $ 46 8 % Six months ended $ 1,277 35 % $ 1,198 31 % $ 79 7 % Research and development expenses increased by $46 million, or 8 percent, during the three months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was primarily due to a $29 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily due to an increase in continued investment in our studios and an increase in variable compensation and related expenses, and a $9 million increase in stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses increased by $79 million, or 7 percent, during the six months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was primarily due to a $51 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily due to an increase in continued investment in our studios and an increase in variable compensation and related expenses, and a $17 million increase in stock-based compensation. 38 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, personnel-related costs, and related overhead costs, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and six months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2024 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2023 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 272 13 % $ 280 15 % $ (8) (3) % Six months ended $ 477 13 % $ 509 13 % $ (32) (6) % Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $8 million, or 3 percent, during the three months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in advertising and promotional spending related to the prior year release of Immortals of Aveum and the rebranding investments associated with the launch of EA SPORTS FC 24, partially offset by an increase in advertising and promotional spending related to the release of EA SPORTS College Football 25, and the upcoming release of Dragon Age: The Veilguard. Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $32 million, or 6 percent, during the six months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in advertising and promotional spending related to the prior year releases of Star Wars Jedi: Survivor and Immortals of Aveum, partially offset by an increase in advertising and promotional spending related to EA SPORTS College Football 25, EA SPORTS FC Mobile, and the upcoming release of Dragon Age: The Veilguard. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, corporate functions such as finance, legal, human resources, and information technology (IT), related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2024 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2023 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 197 10 % $ 173 9 % $ 24 14 % Six months ended $ 377 10 % $ 336 9 % $ 41 12 % General and administrative expenses increased by $24 million, or 14 percent, during the three months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was primarily due to a $8 million increase in personnel-related costs, including an increase in variable compensation and related expenses, a $6 million increase in contracted services and other, and a $5 million increase in stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses increased by $41 million, or 12 percent, during the six months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023. This increase was primarily due to a $17 million increase in personnel-related costs, including an increase in variable compensation and related expenses, a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation, and a $7 million increase in contracted services and other. 39 Table of Contents Income Taxes Provision for (benefits from) income taxes for the three and six months ended September 30, 2024 and 2023 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2024 Effective Tax Rate September 30, 2023 Effective Tax Rate Three months ended $ 105 26 % $ (8) (2) % Six months ended $ 219 28 % $ 146 15 % The provision for income taxes for the three and six months ended September 30, 2024 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2025, adjusted for specific items that are required to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. Our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2024 was 26 percent and 28 percent, respectively, as compared to negative 2 percent and 15 percent for the same periods in fiscal year 2024. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended September 30, 2023 included one-time tax benefits related to the remeasurement of our Swiss deferred tax assets due to the change in statutory tax rate as well as the R&D capitalization guidance issued by the U.S. Treasury in that period. Excluding these one-time tax benefits, our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2023 would have been 25 percent and 27 percent, respectively. The European Union and other countries, including Switzerland, have enacted, or have committed to enact global minimum taxes, commonly referred to as Pillar II, as proposed by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), effective with our fiscal year 2025. Tax law changes from Pillar II in the relevant countries where we operate did not have an impact on our tax provision for the three or six months ended September 30, 2024. We will continue to monitor proposed and enacted legislation for potential tax impact in future periods. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of September 30, 2024 As of March 31, 2024 Increase/(Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 2,197 $ 2,900 $ (703) Short-term investments 366 362 4 Total $ 2,563 $ 3,262 $ (699) Percentage of total assets 20 % 24 % Six Months Ended September 30, (In millions) 2024 2023 Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 354 $ 471 $ (117) Net cash used in investing activities (115) (107) (8) Net cash used in financing activities (948) (833) (115) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 6 (9) 15 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (703) $ (478) $ (225) Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $117 million during the six months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023, primarily driven by higher cash payments for income taxes and lower cash collections, partially offset by lower cash payments for royalties and lower marketing and advertising payments. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $8 million during the six months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023, primarily driven by a $63 million decrease in proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments, and a $21 million increase in capital expenditures, partially offset by a $76 million decrease in the purchase of short-term investments. 40 Table of Contents Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $115 million during the six months ended September 30, 2024, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2023, primarily due to a $100 million increase in common stock repurchases and a $19 million increase in cash paid to taxing authorities in connection with withholding taxes for stock-based compensation. Short-term Investments Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of September 30, 2024, our short-term investments had net unrealized gains of $1 million or less than 1 percent of total short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Senior Notes In February 2021, we issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of the 2031 Notes and $750 million aggregate principal amount of the 2051 Notes. The effective interest rate is 1.98% for the 2031 Notes and 3.04% for the 2051 Notes. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears, on February 15 and August 15 of each year. In February 2016, we issued $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes. The effective interest rate is 4.97% for the 2026 Notes. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. See Note 11 Financing Arrangementsto the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our Senior Notes, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. Credit Facility On March 22, 2023, we entered into a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility") with a syndicate of banks. The Credit Facility terminates on March 22, 2028 unless the maturity is extended in accordance with its terms. As of September 30, 2024, no amounts were outstanding. The Credit Facility contains an option to arrange with existing lenders and/or new lenders to provide up to an aggregate of $500 million in additional commitments for revolving loans. Proceeds of loans made under the Credit Facility may be used for general corporate purposes. See Note 11 Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our Credit Facility, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. Financial Condition Our material cash requirements, including commitments for capital expenditure, as of September 30, 2024 are set forth in our Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately $225 million in fiscal year 2025 primarily due to investments in hardware, software, and real estate. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet these material cash requirements, which include licensing intellectual property from professional sports organizations and players associations used in our EA SPORTS titles (e.g., EA SPORTS FC, NFL Properties LLC, NFL Players Association and NFL Players Inc.) and third-party content and celebrities (e.g., Disney Interactive), debt repayment obligations of $1.9 billion, and to fund our operating requirements for the next 12 months and beyond. Our operating requirements include working capital requirements, capital expenditures, our capital return programs, and potentially, future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to repay debt, strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. During the six months ended September 30, 2024, we returned $851 million to stockholders through our capital return programs, repurchasing 5.4 million shares for approximately $750 million and returning $101 million through our quarterly cash dividend program. Our foreign subsidiaries are generally subject to U.S. tax, and to the extent earnings from these subsidiaries can be repatriated without a material tax cost, such earnings will not be indefinitely reinvested. As of September 30, 2024, approximately $857 million of our cash and cash equivalents were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. All of our foreign cash is available for repatriation without a material tax cost. 41 Table of Contents We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. As of September 30, 2024, we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements. 42 Table of Contents