Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Quarterly Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 24, 2011 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the three months ended June 30, 2011, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 as filed with the SEC on May 24, 2011 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, mobile phones (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), the Internet, and handheld game players (such as the Sony PlayStation Portable (PSP) and the Nintendo DS and 3DS). Some of our games are based on content that we license from others ( e.g. , FIFA, Madden NFL, Harry Potter, and Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties), and some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual property ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed, and Dead Space). Our goal is to publish titles with global mass-market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non-English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports-based products ( e.g. , FIFA, Madden NFL, and NCAA Football), wholly-owned properties that can be successfully sequeled ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed, and Battlefield) and titles based on long-lived literary and/or movie properties ( e.g. , Harry Potter). Financial Results Total net revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 was $999 million, up $184 million as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily the result of higher revenue from distribution products during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. At June 30, 2011, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content decreased by $475 million as compared to March 31, 2011, directly increasing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2011. At June 30, 2010, deferred revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content decreased by $276 million as compared to March 31, 2010, directly increasing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2010. Without these changes in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue would have decreased by approximately $15 million during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Net revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011, was driven by Portal 2 , FIFA 2011, and Need For Speed: Hot Pursuit . 29 Table of Contents Net income for the three months ended June 30, 2011 was $221 million as compared to a net income of $96 million for the three months ended June 30, 2010. Diluted earnings per share for the three months ended June 30, 2011 was $0.66 as compared to diluted earnings per share of $0.29 for the three months ended June 30, 2010. Net income increased during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010 primarily as a result of a $166 million increase in gross profit due to a decrease in deferred net revenue. This increase was partially offset by (1) a $16 million increase in restructuring and other charges primarily from our fiscal 2011 restructuring, (2) a $13 million increase in marketing and sales expenses, and (3) a $12 million increase in our income tax provision. Cash used in operating activities increased $126 million during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to three months ended June 30, 2010 primarily due to royalty payments. Trends in Our Business Digital Content Distribution and Services . Consumers are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We offer a variety of online-delivered products and services. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available through direct online download through the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we offer other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being used to play games by an ever-broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology and consumer acceptance of digital distribution by offering different sales models, such as subscription services, online downloads for a one-time fee, and advertising-supported free-to-play games and game sites. In addition, we offer our consumers the ability to play a game across platforms on multiple devices. We significantly increased the revenue that we derive from wireless, Internet-derived and advertising (digital) products and services from $176 million during the three months ended June 30, 2010 to $232 million during the three months ended June 30, 2011 and we expect this portion of our business to continue to grow in the current fiscal year and beyond. Wireless and other Emerging Platforms . Advances in technology have resulted in a variety of platforms for interactive entertainment. Examples include wireless technologies, streaming gaming services, and Internet-connected televisions. Our efforts in wireless interactive entertainment are focused in two areas games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for mobile devices. These platforms grow the consumer base for our business while also providing competition to existing established video game platforms. We expect sales of games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games . We see a larger portion of packaged goods games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, and that those titles are typically sequels of prior games. We have responded to this trend by significantly reducing the number of games that we produce from 54 primary titles in fiscal year 2010 to 36 primary titles in fiscal year 2011. In fiscal year 2012, we expect to release 22 primary titles. Consequently, we have decreased the number of third-party games that we distribute, which have lower margins. Catalog Sales . The video game industry is experiencing a change in retail sales patterns, which is decreasing revenue from catalog sales (sales of games in the periods subsequent to the quarter in which the title was launched). Currently, many console games experience sales cycles that are shorter than in the past. To mitigate this trend, we offer our consumers a direct-to-consumer service (such as head-to-head play or other multiplayer options) and/or additional content available through online services to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase. We anticipate that in some cases these additional online services will also generate revenue to mitigate the effect of reduced catalog sales. Used Games . Some retailers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games and do not result in revenue to the publisher of the games from the sale. We have observed that the market for used video games has been growing. If retailers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse impact on our operating results. 30 Table of Contents Recent Developments PopCap Games, Inc. Acquisition. On July 11, 2011, we entered into an agreement to acquire all of the outstanding shares of PopCap Games, Inc. Under the terms of the agreement, we will pay (1) approximately $650 million in cash, (2) approximately $100 million in privately placed shares of our common stock to the founders and chief executive officer of PopCap, and (3) up to approximately $50 million in long-term equity retention arrangements in the form of restricted stock unit awards and options to acquire our common stock to be granted over the next four years to PopCap employees joining us. PopCap is a leading provider of games for mobile phones, tablets, PCs, and social network sites. This acquisition accelerates our participation in social gaming and contributes to our digital business. The purchase price is subject to upward adjustment for the amount of unrestricted cash held by PopCap at the closing and downward adjustment for any indebtedness of PopCap and for certain transaction expenses incurred by PopCap in connection with the acquisition. In addition, we may be required to pay additional variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2013. The additional consideration is limited to a maximum of $550 million. Offering of $632.5 million 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes Due 2016. On July 14, 2011, we entered into a Purchase Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as representative of the initial purchasers (collectively, the Initial Purchasers) with respect to the offer and sale of $550 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the Firm Notes). We also granted the Initial Purchasers an option to purchase up to an additional $82.5 million principal amount of notes (the Additional Notes and together with the Firm Notes, the Notes) solely to cover over-allotments. The Initial Purchasers exercised their option to purchase the maximum amount of the Additional Notes on July 15, 2011. The Purchase Agreement includes customary representations, warranties and covenants. Under the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we have agreed to indemnify the Initial Purchasers against certain liabilities. Also on July 14, 2011, in connection with the pricing of the Notes, and on July 18, 2011, in connection with the Initial Purchasers exercise of their over-allotment option, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the Hedge Transactions) with certain option counterparties (the Option Counterparties). The Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock, which is equal to the number of shares of our common stock that will initially underlie the Notes. These transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. Separately, we have also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the Option Counterparties to purchase, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock, with a strike price of $41.14 (the Warrant Transactions). The Warrant Transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on or prior to the expiration date of the warrants. Our cost of the Hedge Transactions, after taking into account our proceeds from the Warrant Transactions, is approximately $42.3 million. On July 20, 2011, in connection with the issuance of the Notes, we entered into an Indenture (the Indenture) with respect to the Notes with U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee (the Trustee). Under the Indenture, the Notes will be our senior unsecured obligations and will pay interest semiannually at a rate of 0.75 percent per annum. The Notes will be convertible into shares of our common stock at an initial conversion rate of 31.5075 shares per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $31.74 per share). The initial conversion price represents a premium of 35 percent to the $23.51 per share closing price of our common stock on July 14, 2011. 31 Table of Contents Prior to April 15, 2016, the notes will be convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods, and thereafter, at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of the notes. Interest on the notes will be payable semiannually in arrears at a rate of 0.75 percent per annum on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2012. The notes will mature on July 15, 2016, unless previously purchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The conversion rate is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. Following certain corporate events described in the Indenture that occur prior to the maturity date, the conversion rate will be increased for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such corporate event in certain circumstances. The notes are not redeemable prior to maturity, and no sinking fund is provided for the Notes. Upon conversion of the Notes, holders will receive cash up to the principal amount of each Note, and any excess conversion value will be delivered in shares of our common stock. If we undergo a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, subject to certain conditions, holders may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their Notes. The fundamental change purchase price will be 100 percent of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to but excluding the fundamental change purchase date. The Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the Trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare 100 percent of the principal and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Notes to be due and payable. Stock Repurchase Program. In February 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. As of June 30, 2011, we had repurchased $149 million of our common stock, or approximately 7.1 million shares, in the open market since the commencement of the program, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. Under the program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities, and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under the program and the repurchase program may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. International sales (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States), are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 50 percent of our total net revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2011 and approximately 45 percent of our total net revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2010. Our net revenue is impacted by foreign exchange rates during the reporting period associated with net revenue before revenue deferral, as well as the foreign exchange rates associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content that were established at the time we recorded this deferred net revenue on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The foreign exchange rates during the reporting period may not always move in the same direction as the foreign exchange rate impact associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content. During the three months ended June 30, 2011, foreign exchange rates had an overall favorable impact on our net revenue of approximately $20 million, or 2 percent. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. 32 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games (1) on video game consoles (such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii), PCs, and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP and Nintendo DS and 3DS), (2) on mobile devices (such as cellular and smart phones including the Apple iPhone), (3) on tablets such as the Apple iPad, and (4) from software products and content and online services associated with these products. We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition , and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements , as revised by SAB No. 104, Revenue Recognition . We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement . Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products that must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery . Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For online game services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. For digital downloads that do not have an online service component, delivery is generally considered to occur when the download is made available. Fixed or determinable fee . If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable . We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered, (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services, (3) determine whether vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) exists for each undelivered element, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or management judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Depending on the type of product, we may offer an online service that permits consumers to play against others via the Internet and/or receive additional updates or content from us. For those games that consumers can play via the Internet, we may provide a matchmaking service that permits consumers to connect with other consumers to play against each other online. In those situations where we do not require an additional fee for this online service, we account for the sale of the software product and the online service as a bundled sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and the online service for one combined price. We defer net revenue from sales of these games for which we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provided in connection with the sale, and recognize the revenue from these games over the estimated online service period, which is generally estimated to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. In addition, for some software products we also provide updates or additional content (digital content) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell digital content for an additional fee; however, some purchased digital content can only be accessed via the Internet ( i.e. , the consumer never takes possession of the digital content). We account for online transactions in which the consumer does not take possession of the digital content as a service transaction and, accordingly, we recognize the associated revenue over the estimated service period. In other transactions, at the date we sell the software product we have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. In these cases, we account for the sale of the software product as a multiple element arrangement and recognize the revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of game play. 33 Table of Contents Determining whether a transaction constitutes an online service transaction or a digital content download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from an online game service is recognized as the service is rendered. If the service period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. Determining the estimated service period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. In addition, determining whether we have an implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee can be difficult. On April 3, 2011 we adopted the ASU 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) : Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements and ASU 2009-14, Software (Topic 985) : Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements . ASU 2009-13 modifies the fair value requirements of ASC subtopic 605-25, Revenue Recognition-Multiple Element Arrangements , by allowing the use of the best estimate of selling price in addition to vendor-specific objective evidence and third-party evidence for determining the selling price of a deliverable for non-software arrangements. It establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, which is based on: (1) vendor-specific objective evidence, (2) third-party evidence, or (3) estimates. In addition, the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration is no longer permitted. ASU 2009-14 modifies the scope of ASC subtopic 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition , to exclude from its requirements non-software components of tangible products and software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non-software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality. The adoption of ASU 2009-13 and ASU 2009-14 did not have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as substantially all of our revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables remain under ASC 985-605. As certain of our revenue arrangements include software and hardware deliverables (such as peripherals or other ancillary collectors items sold together with the physical boxed software), the new accounting principles would apply to these types of arrangements. The new accounting principles establish a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable and require the application of the relative selling price method to allocate the arrangement consideration to each deliverable in a multiple element arrangement. As of the quarter ended June 30, 2011, we do not have significant revenue arrangements that require our best estimate of selling price. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the above four criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock-balancing programs for our PC and video game system software products, which allow for the exchange of these software products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange software products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for our software products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in higher returns and/or price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, this would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online-enabled packaged goods software products change, the amount of deferred net revenue we recognize in the future would change. Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. 34 Table of Contents Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets and acquired in-process technology, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the expected receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to these assessments: Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets and acquired in-process technology are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration issued requires an assessment of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participants view of the risk associated with the obligation. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long-Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived acquisition-related intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated future cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. We are required to perform a two-step approach to testing goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which (1) discrete financial information is available and (2) segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. We are required to perform the impairment test at least annually by applying a fair value-based test. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. 35 Table of Contents To determine the fair value of each reporting unit used in the first step, we use a combination of the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, and/or the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows. Determining whether an event or change in circumstances does or does not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount is inherently subjective. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates, tax rates, and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on our weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. As of the last annual assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2011, we concluded that the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units adequately exceeded their carrying amounts and we have not identified any indicators of impairment since. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of accuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Assessment of Impairment of Short-Term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities. We periodically review our short-term investments and marketable equity securities for impairment. Our short-term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available-for-sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold, (2) the security has matured, or (3) we determine that the fair value of the security has declined below its adjusted cost basis and the decline is other-than-temporary. Realized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are calculated based on the specific identification method and are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net, and loss on strategic investments, respectively. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, and our intent to sell and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, any contractual terms impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as well as, if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before its anticipated recovery. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. Stock-Based Compensation We are required to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant. We recognize compensation costs for stock-based payment awards to employees based on the grant-date fair value using a straight-line approach over the service period for which such awards are expected to vest. 36 Table of Contents We determine the fair value of our share-based payment awards as follows: Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock, and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units . The fair value of restricted stock units, restricted stock, and performance-based restricted stock units (other than market-based restricted stock units) is determined based on the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of grant. Performance-based restricted stock units include grants made (1) to certain members of executive management primarily granted in fiscal year 2008 and (2) in connection with certain acquisitions. Market-Based Restricted Stock Units . Market-based restricted stock units consist of grants of performance-based restricted stock units granted during the three months ended June 30, 2011 to certain members of executive management (referred to herein as market-based restricted stock units). The fair value of our market-based restricted stock units is determined using a Monte-Carlo simulation model. Key assumptions for the Monte-Carlo simulation model are the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected dividends and correlation coefficient. Stock Options and Employee Stock Purchase Plan . The fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans and our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), respectively is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model based on the multiple-award valuation method. Key assumptions of the Black-Scholes valuation model are the risk-free interest rate, expected volatility, expected term and expected dividends. The determination of the fair value of market-based restricted stock units, stock options and ESPP is affected by assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables. Generally, our assumptions are based on historical information and judgment is required to determine if historical trends may be indicators of future outcomes. Employee stock-based compensation expense is calculated based on awards ultimately expected to vest and is reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates and an adjustment to stock-based compensation expense will be recognized at that time. Changes to our assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option valuation or the Monte-Carlo simulation model calculations and our forfeiture rate, as well as future equity granted or assumed through acquisitions could significantly impact the compensation expense we recognize. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate for contracts with guaranteed minimums, or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold. 37 Table of Contents Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next 12 months. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of goods sold. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment generally using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts and, therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. 38 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ending or ended, as the case may be, March 31, 2012 and 2011 contain 52 weeks each and ends or ended, as the case may be, on March 31, 2012 and April 2, 2011, respectively. Our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 contained 13 weeks each, and ended on July 2, 2011 and July 3, 2010, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods and designed for play on hardware consoles (such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii), PCs, and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP and Nintendo DS and 3DS), (2) video games for mobile devices (such as cellular and smart phones including the Apple iPhone), (3) video games for tablets such as the Apple iPad, (4) software products and content and online services associated with these products, (5) programming third-party websites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, a non-GAAP financial measure, is provided in this section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for an explanation of our use of this non-GAAP measure. A reconciliation to the corresponding measure calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States is provided in the discussion below. Revenue Deferral in this Net Revenue section includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and PC digital downloads for which either we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provide in connection with the sale of the software or we have an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content, (2) certain packaged goods sales of massively-multiplayer online role-playing games, and (3) sales of certain incremental digital content associated with our games, which are types of micro-transactions. Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of products that we sell with the online features and services previously discussed, while the Recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period is also dependent upon (1) the period of time the online features and services are to be provided and (2) the timing of the sale. For example, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first half of a fiscal year are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, substantially all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year. From a geographical perspective, our total Net Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, 2011 2010 North America Europe Asia Total North America Europe Asia Total Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral $ 261 $ 223 $ 40 $ 524 $ 267 $ 236 $ 36 $ 539 Revenue Deferral (111 ) (120 ) (19 ) (250 ) (135 ) (159 ) (24 ) (318 ) Recognition of Revenue Deferral 351 335 39 725 319 240 35 594 Net Revenue $ 501 $ 438 $ 60 $ 999 $ 451 $ 317 $ 47 $ 815 Worldwide For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $524 million, driven by Portal 2, FIFA 11, and Crysis 2 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 decreased $15 million, or 3 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was driven by a $139 million decrease from FIFA World Cup and Skate franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $127 million increase from the Portal and FIFA franchises. Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 decreased $68 million, or 21 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in sales of online-enabled products with an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content on a when and if available basis during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was driven by a $153 million decrease from the FIFA World Cup, Skate, and Battlefield franchises. This decrease was partially offset by an $88 million increase from the FIFA, Crysis, and Alice franchises. 39 Table of Contents Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased $131 million, or 22 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was primarily due to the Recognition of Revenue Deferral during the three months ended June 30, 2011 associated with the sales of online-enabled products with an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content on a when and if available basis during the last half of fiscal year 2011, with less comparable recognition during the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $251 million increase from the Need for Speed, Crysis, Dead Space, and Medal of Honor franchises, as well as Bulletstorm . This increase was partially offset by a $120 million decrease from the Battlefield and Mass Effect franchises. For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue was $999 million, driven by Portal 2, FIFA 11, and Need for Speed Hot Pursuit. Net Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased $184 million, or 23 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $285 million increase from the Portal, Need for Speed, Crysis, and Dead Space franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $121 million decrease from the Battlefield and Mass Effect franchises. North America For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in North America was $261 million, driven by Portal 2, FIFA 11, and Alice: Madness Returns . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 decreased $6 million, or 2 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was driven by an $81 million decrease from the FIFA World Cup, Skate, Rock Band, and Battlefield franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $72 million increase from the Portal and Alice franchises. Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 decreased $24 million, or 18 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was driven by a $63 million decrease from the FIFA World Cup, Skate, and Battlefield franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $39 million increase from the Alice, Crysis, FIFA, and The Sims franchises. Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased $32 million, or 10 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $97 million increase from the Need for Speed, Crysis, and Dead Space franchises as well as Bulletstorm . This increase was partially offset by a $70 million decrease from the Battlefield and Mass Effect franchises. For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue in North America was $501 million, driven by Portal 2, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, and Madden 11 . Net Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased $50 million, or 11 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $117 million increase from the Portal, Need for Speed, and Crysis franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $71 million decrease from the Battlefield and Mass Effect franchises. Europe For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Europe was $223 million, driven by FIFA 11, Portal 2, and Crysis 2. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 decreased $13 million, or 6 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was driven by a $73 million decrease from the FIFA World Cup and Skate franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $65 million increase from the Portal, FIFA, and Crysis franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Swiss Franc and British Pound) increased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $15 million, or 6 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral decreased by approximately $28 million, or 12 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Revenue Deferral for three months ended June 30, 2011 decreased by $39 million, or 25 percent, as compared to three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was driven by a $75 million decrease from the FIFA World Cup, Skate, and Battlefield franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $38 million increase from the FIFA and Crysis franchises. 40 Table of Contents Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased $95 million, or 40 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $125 million increase from the Need for Speed, Crysis, Dead Space, Medal of Honor and FIFA franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $47 million decrease from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises. For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue in Europe was $438 million, driven by FIFA 11, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, and Crysis 2. Net Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased $121 million, or 38 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $141 million increase from the Need for Speed, Crysis, Portal, Dead Space, and Medal of Honor franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $48 million decrease from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Swiss Franc and British Pound) increased reported Net Revenue by approximately $9 million, or 3 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue increased by approximately $112 million, or 35 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Asia For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Asia was $40 million, driven by Portal 2, EA SPORTS FIFA Online 2 and Crysis 2 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased by $4 million, or 11 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $17 million increase from the Portal, Crysis, FIFA, and Alice franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $13 million decrease from the FIFA World Cup and Battlefield franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian Dollar) increased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $5 million, or 14 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral decreased by approximately $1 million, or 3 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 decreased $5 million, or 21 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease was driven by a $15 million decrease from the FIFA World Cup, Battlefield, and Skate franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $10 million increase from the Crysis, Alice, FIFA, and The Sims franchises. Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased $4 million, or 11 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $16 million increase from the Crysis, Need for Speed, Dead Space, and Medal of Honor franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $12 million decrease from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises and Dantes Inferno . For the three months ended June 30, 2011, Net Revenue in Asia was $60 million, driven by Portal 2, Crysis 2, and EA SPORTS FIFA Online 2 . Net Revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2011 increased by $13 million, or 28 percent, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This increase was driven by a $22 million increase from the Portal, Crysis, Need for Speed, Dead Space, and The Sims franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $9 million decrease from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian Dollar) increased reported Net Revenue by approximately $11 million, or 23 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue increased by approximately $2 million, or 4 percent, for the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral on Net Revenue related to packaged goods games and digital content. We defer Net Revenue from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we are not able to objectively determine the fair value (as defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software sales) of the online service that we provide in connection with the sale. We recognize the revenue from these games over the estimated online service period. We also defer Net Revenue from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we had an obligation to deliver incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. We recognize the revenue for these games on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of game play. 41 Table of Contents We believe that excluding the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral related to packaged goods games and digital content from our operating results is important to facilitate comparisons between periods in understanding our underlying sales performance for the period. We use this non-GAAP measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as non-GAAP measures presented by other companies. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged-goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post-launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our websites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third-party properties. Cost of goods sold for our website advertising business primarily consists of server costs. Cost of goods sold for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 was as follows (in millions): June 30, 2011 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2010 % of Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Net Revenue $ 240 24.0 % $ 222 27.2 % 8.1 % (3.2 %) During the three months ended June 30, 2011, cost of goods sold decreased by 3.2 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. This decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to a $199 million increase in the net amount recognized from deferred net revenue during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010 related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content, which positively impacted gross profit as a percent of total net revenue by 7.8 percent. This decrease was significantly offset by a greater percentage of net revenue from co-publishing and distribution products, which have a lower margin than our EA studio and digital products, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 6.0 percent. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2011 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2010 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $ 140 14 % $ 127 16 % $ 13 10 % Marketing and sales expenses increased by $13 million, or 10 percent, during the three months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010 primarily due to a $10 million increase in personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount. 42 Table of Contents General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2011 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2010 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $ 74 7 % $ 74 9 % $ General and administrative expenses were flat during the three months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010. Contracted services costs increased by $5 million related to the support of business development projects offset by lower personnel- and facilities-related costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of website content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2011 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2010 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $ 285 29 % $ 275 34 % $ 10 4 % Research and development expenses increase by $10 million, or 4 percent, during the three months ended June 30, 2011, as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010 due to a $16 million increase in additional personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount in connection with recent acquisitions offset by a decrease of $7 million in stock-based compensation expense. Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2011 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2010 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $ 18 2 % $ 2 $ 16 800 % Fiscal 2011 Restructuring During the three months ended June 30, 2011, we incurred charges of $16 million primarily due to adjustments to the estimated loss for the amendment of certain licensing agreements. During the remainder of fiscal year 2012, we anticipate incurring approximately $5 million of restructuring charges related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring (primarily interest expense accretion). Overall, including $164 million in charges incurred through June 30, 2011, we expect to incur total cash and non-cash charges between $180 million and $190 million by June 2016. These charges will consist primarily of (1) charges, including accretion of interest expense, related to the amendment of certain licensing and developer agreements and other intangible asset impairment costs (approximately $170 million) and (2) employee-related costs (approximately $15 million). 43 Table of Contents Loss on Strategic Investments During the three months ended June 30, 2010, we recognized an impairment charge and realized a loss from the sale of our investment in The9 of $5 million. We did not recognize any impairment charges or losses during the three months ended June 30, 2011 on our marketable equity securities. Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and 2010 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2011 Effective Tax Rate June 30, 2010 Effective Tax Rate % Change $ 9 3.9 % $ (3 ) (3.4 %) (400 %) The tax provision reported for the three months ended June 30, 2011 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2012, and also includes certain discrete tax benefits recorded during the period. Our effective tax rates for the three months ended June 30, 2011 and June 30, 2010 were a tax provision of 3.9 percent and a tax benefit of 3.4 percent, respectively. The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2011 differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to the utilization of U.S. deferred tax assets which were subject to a valuation allowance and non-U.S. profits subject to a reduced or zero tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2011 differs from the same period in fiscal year 2011 primarily due to greater tax benefits recorded in fiscal year 2011 related to the expiration of statutes of limitations. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2012 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre-tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs . The amendments in this ASU generally represent clarification of Topic 820, but also include instances where a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or disclosing information about fair value measurements has changed. This update results in common principles and requirements for measuring fair value and for disclosing information about fair value measurements in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and International Financial Reporting Standards. The amendments are effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011 and are to be applied prospectively. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2011-04 to have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) : Presentation of Comprehensive Income . ASU 2011-05 requires one of two alternatives for presenting comprehensive income and eliminates the option to report other comprehensive income and its components as a part of the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders Equity. ASU 2011-05 also requires presentation on the face of the financial statements reclassification adjustments for items that are reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income in the statement(s) where the components of net income and the components of other comprehensive income are presented. The amendments in ASU 2011-05 do not change the items that must be reported in other comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive income must be reclassified to net income. ASU 2011-05 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years beginning after December 15, 2011 and is to be applied retrospectively. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2011-05 to have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 44 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of June 30, 2011 As of March 31, 2011 Increase / (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,173 $ 1,579 $ (406 ) Short-term investments 503 497 6 Marketable equity securities 172 161 11 Total $ 1,848 $ 2,237 $ (389 ) Percentage of total assets 42 % 45 % Three months Ended June 30, Increase / (Decrease) (In millions) 2011 2010 Cash used in operating activities $ (274 ) $ (148 ) $ (126 ) Cash used in investing activities (64 ) (53 ) (11 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (75 ) 1 (76 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 7 (16 ) 23 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (406 ) $ (216 ) $ (190 ) Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Cash used in operating activities increased $126 million during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to three months ended June 30, 2010 primarily due to royalty payments. Investing Activities. Cash used in investing activities increased $11 million during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010 primarily due to (1) $25 million in cash used for acquisitions during the three months ended June 30, 2011, (2) a $21 million increase in capital expenditures, and (3) a $15 million decrease in proceeds received from the maturities and sale of short-term investments. These items were partially offset by $58 million decrease in purchase of short-term investments. Financing Activities. Cash provided by financing activities decreased $76 million during the three months ended June 30, 2011 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2010 primarily due to $91 million, net of commissions, in cash paid for the repurchase and retirement of our common stock during the three months ended June 30, 2011. Short-term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of June 30, 2011, our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of $3 million, or 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. The fair value of our marketable equity securities increased to $172 million as of June 30, 2011 from $161 million as of March 31, 2011 primarily due to an increase in the value of our investment in Neowiz. Restricted Cash and Contingent Consideration In connection with our acquisitions of Playfish and Chillingo, we may be required to pay an additional $110 million of cash consideration, of which $100 million was deposited into an escrow account. As this deposit is restricted in nature, it is excluded from cash and cash equivalents. This cash consideration is based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2014. Through the three months ended June 30, 2011, no distributions were made from the restricted cash amount. As of June 30, 2011, we have accrued $53 million of contingent consideration on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. 45 Table of Contents Fiscal 2011 Restructuring In connection with our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan, we expect to incur cash expenditures through June 2016 of approximately (1) $39 million during the remainder of fiscal year 2012, (2) $27 million in fiscal year 2013, (3) $26 million in fiscal year 2014, (4) $18 million in fiscal year 2015, and (5) $16 million thereafter. The actual cash expenditures are variable as they will be dependent upon the actual revenue we generate from certain games. Financing Arrangement On July 20, 2011, we completed the offer and sale of $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. Additionally, we entered into Hedge Transactions with Option Counterparties. The Hedge Transactions cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock, which is equal to the number of shares of our common stock that will initially underlie the Notes. These transactions are expected to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. Separately, we also has entered into Warrant Transactions with the Option Counterparties to purchase, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock, with a strike price of $41.14. The Warrant Transactions will have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of its common stock exceeds the strike price of the warrants on or prior to the expiration date of the warrants. Our cost of the Hedge Transactions, after taking into account our proceeds from the Warrant Transactions, is approximately $42.3 million. See Note 18 for additional detail regarding the financing arrangement. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and, potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. As of June 30, 2011, approximately $758 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments and $76 million of our marketable equity securities were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. In February 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under the program and the repurchase program may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. 46 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non-employee software developers (independent artists or third-party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fuball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League) (professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR and Tiger Woods (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter); National Football League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (most of Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties); and LucasArts and Lucas Licensing (Star Wars: The Old Republic). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. The following table summarizes our unrecognized minimum contractual obligations as of June 30, 2011, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Contractual Obligations Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases (a) Developer/ Licensor Commitments Marketing Other Purchase Obligations Total 2012 (remaining nine months) $ 35 $ 138 $ 98 $ 10 $ 281 2013 50 198 38 3 289 2014 43 126 68 3 240 2015 29 106 32 2 169 2016 20 84 33 137 Thereafter 14 348 95 457 Total $ 191 $ 1,000 $ 364 $ 18 $ 1,573 (a) See discussion on operating leases in the Off-Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. Lease commitments have not been reduced by minimum sub-lease rentals for unutilized office space resulting from our reorganization activities of approximately $11 million due in the future under non-cancelable sub-leases. The amounts represented in the table above reflect our unrecognized minimum cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be recognized and expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the amounts in the table above are presented based on the dates the amounts are contractually due; however, certain payment obligations may be accelerated depending on the performance of our operating results. In addition to what is included in the table above, as of June 30, 2011, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $240 million, of which approximately $40 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. 47 Table of Contents OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments As of June 30, 2011, we leased certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. 48 Table of Contents