Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Quarterly Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 25, 2012 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012 as filed with the SEC on May 25, 2012 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the Sony PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360, and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), and the Internet. Our ability to publish games across multiple platforms, through multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, a cornerstone of our product strategy. We have generated substantial growth in new business models and alternative revenue streams (such as subscription, micro-transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless product and service offerings. Some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual property ( e.g. , Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants v. Zombies), and some of our games are based on content that we license from others ( e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL, and Star Wars: The Old Republic ). Our goal is to turn our core intellectual properties into year-round businesses available on a range of platforms. Our products and services may be purchased through physical and online retailers, platform providers such as console manufacturers and mobile carriers via digital downloads, as well as directly through our own distribution platform, including online portals such as Origin and Play4Free. Financial Results Total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 was $922 million , a decrease of $139 million , or 13 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . At December 31, 2012 , deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $ 260 million as compared to September 30, 2012, directly decreasing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2012 . At December 31, 2011 , deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $590 million as compared to September 30, 2011, directly decreasing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2011 . Without this change in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue would have decreased by approximately $469 million , or 28 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was primarily the result of lower publishing and other revenue due to Battlefield 3 and Star Wars: The Old Republic, two titles that were launched during the three months ended December 31, 2011 with no comparable offerings in the current quarter. Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 was driven by FIFA 2013, Madden 2013, and Medal of Honor: Warfighter. 32 Table of Contents Net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2012 was $45 million as compared to $205 million for the three months ended December 31, 2011 . Diluted loss per share for the three months ended December 31, 2012 was $0.15 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.62 for the three months ended December 31, 2011 . Net loss decreased for the three months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 primarily as a result of (1) a $160 million decrease in operating expenses and (2) a $14 million gain on strategic investment from the sale of a portion of our investment in Neowiz. This was partially offset by (1) a $16 million decrease in gross profit due to a decrease in frontline sales from fewer title releases and a decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enable packaged goods and digital content. Trends in Our Business Digital Content Distribution and Services . Consumers are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of online-delivered products and services including through our Origin platform. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available through direct online download through the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being used to play games by an ever-broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology and consumer acceptance of digital distribution by offering different sales models, such as subscription services, online downloads for a one-time fee, micro-transactions and advertising-supported free-to-play games and game sites. In addition, we offer our consumers the ability to play a game across platforms on multiple devices. We significantly increased the revenue that we derive from wireless, Internet-derived and advertising (digital) products and services from $743 million in fiscal year 2011 to $1,159 million in fiscal year 2012 and we expect this portion of our business to continue to grow in fiscal 2013 and beyond. Wireless and Other Emerging Platforms . Advances in technology have resulted in a variety of platforms for interactive entertainment. Examples include wireless technologies, streaming gaming services, and Internet platforms. Our efforts in wireless interactive entertainment are focused in downloadable games for mobile devices. These platforms grow the consumer base for our business while also providing competition to existing established video game platforms. We expect sales of games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business. Growth of Casual and Social Games. The popularity of wireless and other emerging gaming platforms such as smart phones, tablets and social networking sites, such as Facebook, has led to the growth of casual and social gaming. Casual and social games are characterized by their mass appeal, simple controls, flexible monetization including free-to-play and micro-transaction business models, and fun and approachable gameplay. These games appeal to a larger consumer demographic of younger and older players and more female players than video games played on console devices. These areas are among the fastest growing segments of our sector and we have responded to this opportunity by developing casual and social games based on our established intellectual properties such as The Sims, FIFA and Battlefield, and with our acquisition of PopCap Games. We expect sales of casual and social games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games . We see a larger portion of packaged goods games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, which are typically sequels of prior games. We have responded to this trend by significantly reducing the number of games that we produce to provide greater focus on our most promising intellectual properties. We published 36 primary packaged goods titles in fiscal year 2011, 22 in fiscal year 2012 and in fiscal year 2013, we expect to release 13 primary packaged goods titles. Evolving Sales Patterns. Our business has evolved from a traditional packaged goods business model to one where our games are played on a variety of platforms including mobile devices and social networking sites. Our strategy is to transform our core intellectual properties into year-round businesses, with a steady flow of downloadable content and extensions on new platforms. Our increasingly digital, multi-platform business no longer reflects the retail sales patterns associated with traditional packaged goods launches. For example, we offer our consumers additional services and/or additional content available through online services to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase. Our social and casual games offer free-to-play and micro-transaction models. The revenue we derive from these services have become increasingly more significant year-over-year. Our service and other revenue represented 24 percent and 17 percent of total revenues in the three months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 33 Table of Contents Recent Developments Stock Repurchase Program. In February 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the following 18 months. We completed that program in April 2012. We repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market under that program, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. During the three months ended June 30, 2012, we repurchased and retired approximately 4.3 million shares of our common stock for approximately $71 million, under that program. In July 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock. Under this new program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three months ended December 31, 2012 , we repurchased and retired approximately 12.2 million shares of our common stock for approximately $157 million under this new program. We continue to actively repurchase shares under this program. During the nine months ended December 31, 2012, we repurchased and retired approximately 24.9 million shares of our common stock for approximately $336 million. Of these repurchases, approximately 20.6 million shares were repurchased under the July 2012 program for approximately $265 million. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. International sales (revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States), are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 56 percent of our total net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2012 and approximately 53 percent of our total net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2011 . Our net revenue is impacted by foreign exchange rates during the reporting period associated with net revenue before revenue deferral, as well as the foreign exchange rates associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content that were established at the time we recorded this deferred net revenue on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The foreign exchange rates during the reporting period may not always move in the same direction as the foreign exchange rate impact associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content. During the three months ended December 31, 2012 , foreign exchange rates had an overall unfavorable impact on our reported net revenue of approximately $38 million, or 4 percent. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns and Allowances, and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games, and related content and services on (1) video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii) and PCs, (2) mobile devices (such the Apple iPhone and Google compatible Android phones), and (3) tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle). We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition . We classify our revenue as either product revenue or service and other revenue. Product revenue. Our product revenue includes revenue associated with the sale of software games or related content, whether delivered via a physical disc ( e .g., packaged goods) or via the Internet ( e.g., full-game downloads, micro-transactions), and 34 Table of Contents licensing of game software to third-parties. Product revenue also includes revenue from mobile full game downloads that do not require our hosting support, and sales of tangible products such as hardware, peripherals, or collectors' items. Service and other revenue. Our service revenue includes revenue recognized from time-based subscriptions and games or related content that requires our hosting support in order to utilize the game or related content ( i.e. , cannot be played without an Internet connection). This includes (1) entitlements to content that are accessed through hosting services ( e.g., micro-transactions for Internet-based, social network and mobile games), (2) massively multi-player online (MMO) games (both software game and subscription sales), (3) subscriptions for our Pogo-branded online game services, and (4) allocated service revenue from sales of software games with an online service element ( i.e., matchmaking service). Our other revenue includes advertising and non-software licensing revenue. With respect to the allocated service revenue from sales of software games with a matchmaking service mentioned above, our allocation of proceeds between product and service revenue for presentation purposes is based on management's best estimate of the selling price of the matchmaking service with the residual value allocated to product revenue. Our estimate of the selling price of the matchmaking service is comprised of several factors including, but not limited to, prior selling prices for the matchmaking service, prices charged separately by other third-party vendors for similar service offerings, and a cost-plus-margin approach. We review the estimated selling price of the online matchmaking service on a regular basis and use this methodology consistently to allocate revenue between product and service for software game sales with a matchmaking service. We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement . Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver the related products or services must be present. Fixed or determinable fee . If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable . Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable as the amounts become due, we generally conclude that collection becomes probable upon cash collection. Delivery . Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. For digital downloads, delivery is considered to occur when the software is made available to the customer for download. For services and other, delivery is generally considered to occur as the service is delivered, which is determined based on the underlying service obligation. Online-Enabled Games The majority of our software games can be connected to the Internet whereby a consumer may be able to download unspecified content or updates on a when-and-if-available basis (unspecified updates) for use with the original game software. In addition, we may also offer an online matchmaking service that permits consumers to play against each other via the Internet. U.S. GAAP requires us to account for the consumer's right to receive unspecified updates or the matchmaking service for no additional fee as a bundled sale, or multiple-element arrangement. We have an established historical pattern of providing unspecified updates to online-enabled software games ( e.g., player roster updates to Madden NFL 13 ) at no additional charge to the consumer. We do not have vendor specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) for these unspecified updates, and thus, as required by U.S. GAAP, we recognize revenue from the sale of these online-enabled games over the period we expect to offer the unspecified updates to the consumer (estimated offering period). Estimated Offering Period The offering period is not an explicitly defined period and thus, we recognize revenue over an estimated offering period, which is generally estimated to be six months beginning in the month after delivery. Determining the estimated offering period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. For example, in determining the estimated offering period for unspecified updates associated with our online-enabled games, we consider the period of time consumers are online as online connectivity is required. On an annual basis, we review 35 Table of Contents consumers' online gameplay of all online-enabled games that have been released 12 to 24 months prior to the evaluation date. For example, if the evaluation date is April 1, 2012, we evaluate all online-enabled games released between April 1, 2010 and March 31, 2011. Based on this population of games, for all players that register the game online within the first six months of release of the game to the general public, we compute the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game, based on when a player initially registers the game online to when that player last plays the game online. We then compute the weighted-average number of days for all online-enabled games by multiplying the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game by its relative percentage of total units sold from these online-enabled games ( i.e., a game with more units sold will have a higher weighting to the overall computation than a game with fewer units sold). Under a similar computation, we also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to an end consumer. Based on the sum of these two calculations, we then consider the results from prior years, known online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors' games to determine the estimated offering period for unspecified updates. Similar computations are also made for the estimated service period related to our MMO games, which is generally estimated to be eighteen months. While we consistently apply this methodology, inherent assumptions used in this methodology include which online-enabled games to sample, whether to use only units that have registered online, whether to weight the number of days for each game, whether to weight the days based on the units sold of each game, determining the period of time between the date of sale to reseller and the date of sale to the consumer and assessing online gameplay trends. Other Multiple-Element Arrangements In some of our multiple element arrangements, we sell tangible products with software and/or software-related offerings. These tangible products are generally either peripherals or ancillary collectors' items, such as figurines and comic books. Revenue for these arrangements is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each deliverable using the relative selling prices of each deliverable in the arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy described below. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the software deliverables as a group and then allocated to each software deliverable in accordance with ASC 985-605. We determine the selling price for a tangible product deliverable based on the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE ( i.e. , the price we charge when the tangible product is sold separately) if available, third-party evidence (TPE) of fair value ( i.e. , the price charged by others for similar tangible products) if VSOE is not available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Determining the BESP is a subjective process that is based on multiple factors including, but not limited to, recent selling prices and related discounts, market conditions, customer classes, sales channels and other factors. In accordance with ASC 605, provided the other three revenue recognition criteria other than delivery have been met, we recognize revenue upon delivery to the customer as we have no further obligations. We must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element is delivered, (2) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements, as applicable. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, or changes to the elements in the arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Sales Returns and Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We reduce revenue primarily for estimated future returns and price protection which may occur with our distributors and retailers (channel partners). Price protection represents our practice to provide our channel partners with a credit allowance to lower their wholesale price on a particular product in the channel. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old wholesale price and the new reduced wholesale price. In certain countries for our PC and console packaged goods software products, we also have a practice of allowing channel partners to return older software products in the channel in exchange for a credit allowance. As a general practice, we do not give cash refunds. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze the following: historical credit allowances, current sell-through of our channel partner's inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand, acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates 36 Table of Contents regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection allowances would change and would impact the total net revenue, accounts receivable and deferred net revenue that we report. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating the following: customer creditworthiness, current economic trends, historical experience, age of current accounts receivable balances, changes in financial condition or payment terms of our customers. Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. The amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly as a result of a change in any of the evaluation factors mentioned above. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the expected receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates is inherently difficult and subjective, and if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to these assessments: Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, which is an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration requires an assessment of the probability-weighted expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures the risk associated with the obligation. The significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of the contingent consideration payable are forecasted earnings. Significant changes in forecasted earnings would result in significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long-Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived acquisition-related intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated future cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. 37 Table of Contents In assessing impairment on our goodwill, we first analyze qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. If we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, we do not need to perform the two-step impairment test. If based on that assessment, we believe it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units is less than its carrying value, a two-step goodwill impairment test will be performed. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which (1) discrete financial information is available and (2) segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. To determine the fair value of each reporting unit used in the first step, we use the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows, or a combination thereof. Determining whether an event or change in circumstances does or does not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount is inherently subjective. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates, tax rates, and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on a weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. As of our last annual assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, we concluded that the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units significantly exceeded their carrying amounts and we have not identified any indicators of impairment since that assessment. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of inaccuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Assessment of Impairment of Short-Term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities. We periodically review our short-term investments and marketable equity securities for impairment. Our short-term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available-for-sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold, (2) the security has matured, or (3) we determine that the fair value of the security has declined below its adjusted cost basis and the decline is other-than-temporary. Realized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are calculated based on the specific identification method and are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income (expense), net, and gain on strategic investments, net, respectively. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, and our intent to sell and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, any contractual terms impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as well as, if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before its anticipated recovery. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. 38 Table of Contents Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts with guaranteed minimums. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product, and therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next 12 months. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment generally using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts, and therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable 39 Table of Contents temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States, and accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ending or ended, as the case may be, March 31, 2013 and 2012 contain 52 weeks each and ends or ended, as the case may be, on March 30, 2013 and March 31, 2012 , respectively. Our results of operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 contained 13 and 39 weeks each, respectively, and ended on December 29, 2012 and December 31, 2011 , respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods or as digital downloads and designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii) and PCs, (2) video games for mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), (3) video games for tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), (4) separate software products and content and online game services associated with these products, (5) programming third-party websites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. We provide three different measures of our Net Revenue. Two of these measures are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP - (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue and (2) Net Revenue by Geography. The third measure is a non-GAAP financial measure - Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by Revenue Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. We use this third non-GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by Revenue Composition than by Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue. These two measures differ as (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue reflects the deferral and recognition of revenue in periods subsequent to the date of sale due to U.S. GAAP while Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by Revenue Composition does not, and (2) both measures contain a different aggregation of sales from one another. For instance, Service and other revenue does not include the majority of our full-game digital download and mobile sales that are fully included in our Digital revenue. Further, Service and other revenue includes all of our revenue associated with MMO games while software sales associated with our MMOs are included in either Digital revenue or Publishing and other revenue depending on whether the sale was a full-game digital download or a packaged goods sale. 40 Table of Contents Net Revenue Quarterly Analysis Net Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2012 , Net Revenue was $922 million and decreased $139 million , or 13 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was driven by a $314 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield, The Sims, and Alice franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $175 million increase in revenue primarily from the Medal of Honor and FIFA franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic and The Simpsons: Tapped Out. Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our total net revenue by product revenue and service and other revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 703 $ 884 $ (181 ) (20 )% Service and other 219 177 42 24 % Total net revenue $ 922 $ 1,061 $ (139 ) (13 )% Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2012 , product revenue was $703 million , primarily driven by FIFA 2013 , Madden 2013, and Medal of Honor: Warfighter . Product revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 decreased $181 million , or 20 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was driven by a $276 million decrease primarily from the Battlefield, The Sims, and Alice franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $95 million increase primarily from the Medal of Honor, FIFA, and Plants vs. Zombies franchises. Service and Other Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2012 , service and other revenue was $219 million , primarily driven by Star Wars: The Old Republic, FIFA 13 Ultimate Team , and The Simpsons: Tapped Out . Service and other revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 increased $42 million , or 24 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This increase was driven by a $64 million increase primarily from services associated with Star Wars: The Old Republic (which launched in December 2011), The Simpsons: Tapped Out, and from the FIFA franchise. This increase was partially offset by a $22 million decrease primarily from The Sims and Warhammer franchises, as well as Pogo-branded online game services. Net Revenue by Geography Three Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2012 2011 $ Change % Change North America $ 409 $ 500 $ (91 ) (18 )% Europe 464 505 (41 ) (8 )% Asia 49 56 (7 ) (13 )% Total net revenue $ 922 $ 1,061 $ (139 ) (13 )% Net revenue in North America was $409 million , or 44 percent of total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 , compared to $500 million , or 47 percent of total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2011 , a decrease of $91 million , or 18 percent . Net revenue in North America decreased primarily due to decreased revenue in our Battlefield, The Sims, Hasbro Family Game Night, and Alice franchises, partially offset by increased revenue in our Medal of Honor, FIFA, and Plants vs. Zombies franchises, as well as Star War: The Old Republic and The Simpsons: Tapped Out during the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Net revenue in Europe was $464 million , or 51 percent of total net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2012 , compared to $505 million , or 48 percent of total net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2011 , a decrease of $41 million , or 8 percent . We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily due to the Euro 41 Table of Contents and Swiss Franc) decreased reported Net revenue in Europe by approximately $37 million, or 7 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net revenue in Europe, we estimate that Net revenue in Europe decreased by approximately $4 million, or 1 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . Net revenue in Europe decreased primarily due to our Battlefield, The Sims, and Need for Speed franchises, partially offset by increased revenue in our FIFA and Medal of Honor franchises, as well as Star War: The Old Republic and The Simpsons: Tapped Out during the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally via the Internet, we place a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of net revenue by revenue composition. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, a non-GAAP financial measure, is provided in this section of MD&A, including a discussion of the components of this measure: (1) publishing and other, (2) wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital), and (3) distribution. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for an explanation of our use of this non-GAAP financial measure. A reconciliation to the corresponding measure calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP is provided in the discussion below. Revenue Deferral in this Net Revenue section generally includes the unrecognized revenue from bundled sales of certain online-enabled games for which we do not have VSOE for the unspecified updates. Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of products that we sell with the online features and services previously discussed, while the Recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period is also dependent upon (1) the amount deferred, (2) the period of time the software-related offerings are to be provided, and (3) the timing of the sale. For example, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first half of a fiscal year are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, substantially all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year. Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the three months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Publishing and other $ 742 $ 1,225 $ (483 ) (39 )% Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 407 377 30 8 % Distribution 33 49 (16 ) (33 )% Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 1,182 1,651 (469 ) (28 )% Revenue Deferral (971 ) (1,370 ) 399 (29 )% Recognition of Revenue Deferral 711 780 (69 ) (9 )% Total net revenue $ 922 $ 1,061 $ (139 ) (13 )% Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral Publishing and Other Revenue Publishing and other revenue includes (1) sales of our internally-developed and co-published game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, (2) our non-software licensing revenue, and (3) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (OEM bundles). For the three months ended December 31, 2012 , publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $742 million , primarily driven by FIFA 2013 , Need for Speed Most Wanted , and Medal of Honor: Warfighter . Publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2012 decreased $483 million , or 39 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was driven by a $714 million decrease in sales primarily from the Battlefield and The Sims franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic. This decrease was partially offset by a $231 million increase in sales primarily from the Medal of Honor, FIFA, and FIFA Street franchises. 42 Table of Contents Wireless, Internet-derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue Digital revenue includes revenue from sales of our internally-developed and co-published game software distributed through direct download through the Internet, including through our direct-to-consumer platform Origin, or distributed wirelessly through mobile carriers. This includes our full-game downloads, mobile and tablet revenue (each of which are generally classified as product revenue with the exception of our MMO game downloads and freemium mobile games which are classified as service revenue) as well as subscription services, micro-transactions, and advertising revenues (each of which is generally classified as service and other revenue). For the three months ended December 31, 2012 , digital Net Revenue before Deferral was $407 million , an increase of $ 30 million , or 8 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This increase is due to (1) a $62 million or 50 percent increase in extra content and free-to-play sales primarily driven by the FIFA franchise and Star Wars: The Old Republic , (2) a $15 million or 18 percent increase in mobile sales primarily driven by The Simpsons: Tapped Out , and (3) a $12 million or 18 percent increase in subscription and advertising sales primarily driven by Star Wars: The Old Republic. These increases were partially offset by a $59 million or 57 percent decrease in full-game download sales primarily driven by Star Wars: The Old Republic and the Battlefield franchise. Digital Net Revenue before Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2012 excludes $28 million of Battlefield 3 Premium subscriptions which have been deferred and are expected to be recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. Distribution Revenue Distribution revenue includes (1) sales of game software developed by independent game developers that we distribute and (2) sales through our Switzerland distribution business. For the three months ended December 31, 2012 , distribution net revenue was $33 million and decreased $16 million , or 33 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in sales from our Switzerland distribution business. Revenue Deferral Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2012 decreased $399 million , or 29 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was primarily due to a $483 million decrease in Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral related to our publishing and other sales, which was partially offset by a higher percentage of digital sales being deferred and recognized over time, due in part to a 50 percent increase in extra content and free-to-play sales, an 18 percent increase in subscription and advertising revenue, and an 18 percent increase in mobile sales, which all contain an online service component which requires revenue recognition over the period of time that the service is delivered. Recognition of Revenue Deferral Our non-distribution sales are generally deferred and recognized over a weighted-average six-month period, and therefore, the related revenue recognized during the fiscal quarter ended December 31 is primarily due to sales that occurred during the respective three-month period ended September 30. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2012 decreased $69 million , or 9 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was primarily due to lower publishing and other sales during the quarter ended September 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year. 43 Table of Contents Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue by Revenue Composition Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the three months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Product revenue: Publishing and other $ 554 $ 722 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 116 113 Distribution 33 49 Total product revenue 703 884 Service and other revenue: Publishing and other 14 16 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 205 161 Total service and other revenue 219 177 Total net revenue $ 922 $ 1,061 Net Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , net revenue was $2,588 million and decreased $187 million , or 7 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was driven by a $936 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Crysis, Dragon Age, Portal, Need for Speed, and Dead Space franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $749 million increase in revenue primarily from the Mass Effect and FIFA franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic. Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our total net revenue by product revenue and service and other revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 1,886 $ 2,370 $ (484 ) (20 )% Service and other 702 405 297 73 % Total net revenue $ 2,588 $ 2,775 $ (187 ) (7 )% Product Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , product revenue was $1,886 million , primarily driven by Battlefield 3 , Mass Effect 3 , and FIFA 2012 . Product revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 decreased $484 million , or 20 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was driven by a $881 million decrease primarily from the Crysis, Dragon Age, Portal, Need for Speed, and Dead Space franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $397 million increase primarily from the Mass Effect and FIFA Street franchises, as well as Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning . Service and Other Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , service and other revenue was $702 million , primarily driven by Star Wars: The Old Republic, FIFA 12 Ultimate Team , and FIFA World Class Soccer . Service and other revenue for the nine months ended 44 Table of Contents December 31, 2012 increased $297 million , or 73 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This increase was driven by a $325 million increase primarily from services associated with Star Wars: The Old Republic , and the FIFA and Battlefield franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $28 million decrease from certain franchises including Warhammer and Ultima Online, and Pogo-branded online game services. Net Revenue by Geography Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2012 2011 $ Change % Change North America $ 1,188 $ 1,338 $ (150 ) (11 )% Europe 1,231 1,271 (40 ) (3 )% Asia 169 166 3 2 % Total net revenue $ 2,588 $ 2,775 $ (187 ) (7 )% Net revenue in North America was $1,188 million , or 46 percent of total net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , compared to $1,338 million , or 48 percent of total net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , a decrease of $150 million , or 11 percent . This decrease was driven by a $488 million decrease primarily from the Portal, Dragon Age, Crysis, Need for Speed, and Dead Space franchises. This decrease was offset by a $338 million increase primarily from the Mass Effect franchise, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic and Kingdoms of Amalur: Reckoning . Net revenue in Europe was $1,231 million , or 47 percent of total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , compared to $1,271 million , or 46 percent of total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , a decrease of $40 million , or 3 percent . We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily due to the Euro and Swiss Franc) decreased reported net revenue in Europe by approximately $102 million, or 8 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net revenue in Europe, we estimate that Net revenue in Europe increased by approximately $62 million, or 5 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . Net revenue in Europe decreased primarily due to our Crysis, Need for Speed, Dragon Age, Portal, and Dead Space franchises, partially offset by increased revenue in our FIFA, Mass Effect, and FIFA Street franchises during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Net revenue in Asia was $169 million , or 7 percent of total net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , compared to $166 million , or 6 percent of total net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , an increase of $3 million , or 2 percent . We estimate that foreign exchange rates decreased reported net revenue in Asia by approximately $5 million, or 3 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net revenue in Asia, we estimate that Net revenue in Asia increased by approximately $8 million, or 5 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . Net revenue in Asia increased primarily due to increased sales in our FIFA, Mass Effect, and Battlefield franchises partially offset by decreased revenue in our Crysis, Portal, Dragon Age, Alice, and Need for Speed franchises during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2012 2011 $ Change % Change Publishing and other $ 1,632 $ 2,207 $ (575 ) (26 )% Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 1,045 802 243 30 % Distribution 76 200 (124 ) (62 )% Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 2,753 3,209 (456 ) (14 )% Revenue Deferral (2,166 ) (2,420 ) 254 10 % Recognition of Revenue Deferral 2,001 1,986 15 1 % Total net revenue $ 2,588 $ 2,775 $ (187 ) (7 )% 45 Table of Contents Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral Publishing and Other Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $1,632 million , primarily driven by FIFA 13 , Madden NFL 13 , and Need for Speed Most Wanted . Publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 decreased $575 million , or 26 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was driven by an $839 million decrease in sales primarily from the Battlefield and The Sims franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic. This decrease was partially offset by a $264 million increase in sales primarily from the FIFA, Medal of Honor, and FIFA Street franchises. Wireless, Internet-derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , digital Net Revenue before Deferral was $1,045 million , an increase of $243 million , or 30 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This increase is due to (1) a $152 million or 55 percent increase in extra content and free-to-play sales primarily driven by the FIFA, Mass Effect and Bejeweled franchises, (2) a $69 million or 42 percent increase in subscription, advertising, and other digital sales primarily driven by Star Wars: The Old Republic , (3) a $68 million or 34 percent increase in mobile sales primarily driven by FIFA World Class Soccer . These increases were partially offset a $46 million or 29 percent decrease in full-game download sales primarily driven by the Battlefield franchise and Star Wars: The Old Republic . Digital Net Revenue before Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 excludes $108 million of Battlefield 3 Premium subscriptions which have been deferred and are expected to be recognized in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. Distribution Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , distribution net revenue was $76 million and decreased $124 million , or 62 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to a decrease in sales in the Portal franchise and our Switzerland distribution business. Revenue Deferral Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 decreased $254 million , or 10 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease was primarily due to a $575 million decrease in Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral related to our publishing and other sales, which was partially offset by a higher percentage of digital sales being deferred and recognized over time, due in part to a 55 percent increase in extra content and free-to-play sales, a 42 percent increase in subscription and advertising revenue, and a 34 percent increase in mobile sales, which all contain an online service component which requires revenue recognition over the period of time that the service is delivered. Recognition of Revenue Deferral Our non-distribution sales are generally deferred and recognized over a weighted average six-month period, and therefore, the related revenue recognized during the nine months ended December 31 is primarily due to the sales that occurred during the respective six-month period ended September 30. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 increased $15 million , or 1 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This increase was primarily due to increased digital sales during the six months ended September 30, 2012, and a higher percentage of those sales being comprised of games sales that have an online service component, as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2012. 46 Table of Contents Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue by Revenue Composition Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Product revenue: Publishing and other $ 1,461 $ 1,789 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 349 381 Distribution 76 200 Total product revenue 1,886 2,370 Service and other revenue: Publishing and other 64 46 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 638 359 Total service and other revenue 702 405 Total net revenue $ 2,588 $ 2,775 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral on Net Revenue related to sales of games and digital content. We believe that excluding the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral related to games and digital content from our operating results is important to facilitate comparisons between periods in understanding our underlying sales performance for the period, and understanding our operations because all related costs of revenues are expensed as incurred instead of deferred and recognized ratably. We use this non-GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies. Cost of Revenue Total cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 363 51.6 % $ 477 54.0 % (23.9 )% (2.4 )% Service and other 66 30.1 % 75 42.4 % (12.0 )% (12.3 )% Total cost of revenue $ 429 46.5 % $ 552 52.0 % (22.3 )% (5.5 )% Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. 47 Table of Contents Cost of product revenue decreased by $114 million , or 23.9 percent in the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . The decrease was primarily due to a 33 percent decrease in distribution revenue, which has higher costs, and a 23 percent decrease in publishing and other revenue, during the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (2) associated royalty costs, (3) credit card fees associated with our service revenue, (4) server costs related to our website advertising business, and (5) platform processing fees from operating our website-based games on third-party platforms. Cost of service and other revenue decreased by $9 million , or 12.0 percent in the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . The decrease was primarily due to decreased server and support costs related to Star Wars: The Old Republic . This decrease is partially offset by an increase in royalties related costs associated with new releases. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the three months ended December 31, 2012 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 5.5 percent as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to (1) a decrease in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content, (2) a decrease in server and support costs due to Star Wars: The Old Republic , and (3) a greater percentage of net revenue from our digital products and services that have a lower cost than our publishing and other products. All of these factors positively impacted gross profit as a percentage of net revenue by 7.3 percent. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in royalties related costs associated with new releases, which negatively impact gross profit as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 1.8 percent. Total cost of revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 866 45.9 % $ 1,088 45.9 % (20.4 )% % Service and other 213 30.3 % 136 33.6 % 56.6 % (3.3 )% Total cost of revenue $ 1,079 41.7 % $ 1,224 44.1 % (11.8 )% (2.4 )% Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue decreased by $222 million , or 20.4 percent in the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . The decrease was primarily due to a 62 percent decrease in distribution revenue, which has higher costs, and a 17 percent decrease in publishing and other revenue, during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue increased by $77 million , or 56.6 percent in the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . The increase was primarily due to increased server and support costs due to the release of more online-connected and subscription-based titles and related content during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 2.4 percent as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 . This decrease as a percentage of net revenue is primarily due to (1) a 62 percent decrease in distribution revenue which has higher costs and (2) a greater percentage of net revenue from our digital products and services that have a lower cost than our publishing and other products. 48 Table of Contents Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of website content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 286 31 % $ 325 31 % $ (39 ) (12 )% Nine months ended $ 890 34 % $ 928 33 % $ (38 ) (4 )% Research and development expenses decreased by $39 million , or 12 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared the three months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to (1) a $21 million decrease in incentive-based compensation expense, (2) a $9 million decrease in personnel-related costs, and (3) a $7 million decrease in contracted services. Research and development expenses decreased by $38 million , or 4 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , due to (1) a $14 million decrease in incentive-based compensation expense, (2) an $8 million decrease in server and support costs, (3) a $7 million decrease in contracted services, and (4) a $7 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 214 23 % $ 269 25 % $ (55 ) (20 )% Nine months ended $ 571 22 % $ 631 23 % $ (60 ) (10 )% Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $55 million , or 20 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to (1) a $56 million decrease in advertising and promotional spending on our franchises due to fewer frontline title releases as compared to the prior year, and (2) a $5 million decrease in incentive-based compensation expense. This was partially offset by $6 million increase in personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount due to online and customer relationship initiatives and recent acquisitions. Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $60 million , or 10 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to (1) an $82 million decrease in advertising and promotional spending on our franchises due to fewer frontline title releases as compared to the prior year. This was partially offset by a $23 million increase in personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount due to online and customer relationship initiatives and recent acquisitions. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. 49 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 68 7 % $ 98 9 % $ (30 ) (31 )% Nine months ended $ 253 10 % $ 260 9 % $ (7 ) (3 )% General and administrative expenses decreased $30 million , or 31 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) a $12 million decrease in contracted services primarily related to litigation matters, (2) a $10 million decrease in bad debt expense, and (3) a $7 million decrease in incentive-based compensation expense. General and administrative expenses decreased $7 million , or 3 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) a $10 million decrease in contracted services primarily related to litigation matters, (2) an $8 million decrease in incentive-based compensation expense, and (3) a $6 million decrease in bad debt expense. This was partially offset by an increase in personnel-related costs for $20 million. Acquisition-Related Contingent Consideration Acquisition-related contingent consideration for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ (45 ) (5 )% $ (11 ) (1 )% $ (34 ) (309 )% Nine months ended $ (65 ) (3 )% $ 8 $ (73 ) (913 )% During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 , acquisition-related contingent consideration decreased by $34 million , or 309 percent , and $73 million , or 913 percent , respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily resulting from revisions in our accrual related to our PopCap acquisition. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 7 1 % $ 11 1 % $ (4 ) (36 )% Nine months ended $ 21 1 % $ 37 1 % $ (16 ) (43 )% During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 , amortization of intangibles decreased by $4 million , or 36 percent , and $16 million , or 43 percent , respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to certain intangible assets from our prior year acquisitions being fully amortized during fiscal year 2012. Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 2 $ $ 2 Nine months ended $ 27 1 % $ 17 1 % $ 10 59 % During the three months ended December 31, 2012 , restructuring and other charges remained relatively consistent as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 . 50 Table of Contents During the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , restructuring and other charges increased by $10 million , or 59 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to (1) $23 million in costs in connection with our fiscal 2013 restructuring, which was initiated in this fiscal year, and (2) a $10 million gain on the sale of our facility in Chertsey, England related to our fiscal 2008 reorganization that was recognized during the three months ended September 30, 2011, and for which there was no comparable gain in the current year. These increases were partially offset by costs that were recognized during the nine months ended December 31, 2011 comprised of (1) $14 million expense adjustment for the amendment of certain licensing agreements related to our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan, and (2) $10 million in costs related to IT and other costs to assist in reorganizing certain activities. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section on page 53 for additional information regarding our restructuring plans. Gain on Strategic Investments, Net During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012, we realized a gain of $14 million, net of costs to sell, from the partial sale of our investment in Neowiz. We did not recognize any impairment charges or losses during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2011 on our marketable equity securities. Subsequent to December 31, 2012, we sold our remaining investment in Neowiz for $46 million and realized a gain of $25 million, net of costs to sell. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2011 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ (8 ) (1 )% $ (10 ) (1 )% $ 2 20 % Nine months ended $ (17 ) (1 )% $ (13 ) $ (4 ) (31 )% Interest and other income (expense), net decreased by $2 million , or by 20 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to a $33 million increase in foreign currency transaction gains which was partially offset by a $30 million increase in foreign currency forward contract losses as compared to the same period in the prior year. Interest and other income (expense), net increased by $4 million , or by 31 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 , primarily due to (1) a $42 million increase in foreign currency forward contract losses, (2) an $8 million increase in interest expense, including the amortization of debt discount recognized in connection with our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, and (3) a $2 million decrease in interest income as a result of decreasing average cash balances. This was partially offset by a $49 million increase in foreign currency transaction gains as compared to the same period in the prior year. Income Taxes Provisions for (benefit from) income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2012 Effective Tax Rate December 31, 2011 Effective Tax Rate % Change Three months ended $ 12 36.4 % $ 12 6.2 % Nine months ended $ 34 17.8 % $ (19 ) (5.5 )% 279 % The provision for income taxes reported for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2013, and also includes certain discrete tax benefits recorded during the period. Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 was a tax expense of 36.4 percent and 17.8 percent , respectively, as compared to a tax expense of 6.2 percent and a tax benefit of 5.5 percent, respectively, for the same periods of fiscal 2012. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to the U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, the nontaxable change in the estimated fair value of acquisition-related contingent consideration, and non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2011 differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to the utilization of U.S. deferred tax assets which were subject to a valuation allowance, a reduction in the U.S. valuation allowance 51 Table of Contents related to the PopCap acquisition, and non-U.S. profits subject to a reduced or zero tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 differs from the same period in fiscal year 2012 primarily due to greater tax benefits recorded in fiscal year 2012 related to the reduction of the U.S. valuation allowance for the PopCap acquisition. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2013 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre-tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States, and accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. 52 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of December 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2012 (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,158 $ 1,293 $ (135 ) Short-term investments 275 437 (162 ) Marketable equity securities 59 119 (60 ) Total $ 1,492 $ 1,849 $ (357 ) Percentage of total assets 30 % 34 % Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2012 2011 Change Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 91 $ (10 ) $ 101 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities 119 (689 ) 808 Cash provided by (used in) financing activities (347 ) 388 (735 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 2 (26 ) 28 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (135 ) $ (337 ) $ 202 Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Cash provided by operating activities increased $101 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to nine months ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) a decrease in prepaid royalty advances, (2) a decrease in royalty payments, and (3) cash collected on receivables as a percentage of Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral increased during the current period as compared to the prior period. These increases were offset by a decrease in deferred net revenue resulting in lower Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral. Investing Activities. Cash provided by investing activities increased $808 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 primarily driven by a $666 million decrease in cash used for acquisitions, the majority of which was used to fund our acquisition of PopCap during the six months ended September 30, 2011, and a decrease of $47 million in capital expenditures. Additionally, we purchased $244 million of short-term investments during the current period as compared to $374 million purchased during the nine months ended December 31, 2011. Separately, we received $404 million in proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments during the current period as compared to $463 million received during the nine months ended December 31, 2011. Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities increased $735 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011 primarily due to (1) $617 million in proceeds received from the sale of our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016, net of issuance costs that occurred in fiscal 2012, (2) a $106 million increase in the repurchase and retirement of common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2011, (3) $65 million in proceeds received from the issuance of Warrants in connection with the Notes in the prior year, and (4) a $28 million acquisition-related contingent consideration payment primarily in connection with our acquisition of Playfish that was paid during the three months ended September 30, 2012. This was partially offset by $107 million paid for the purchase of the Convertible Note Hedge during the three months ended September 30, 2011. Short-term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of December 31, 2012 , our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. Our marketable equity securities as of December 31, 2012 and March 31, 2012 consisted of common shares of Neowiz. The fair value of our marketable equity securities decreased to $59 million as of December 31, 2012 from $119 million as of March 31, 2012 . During the three months ended December 31, 2012, we sold a portion of our investment in Neowiz and received proceeds 53 Table of Contents of $25 million and realized a gain of $14 million , net of costs to sell. The realized gain is included in gain on strategic investments, net, in our Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations. Subsequent to December 31, 2012, we sold our remaining investment in Neowiz for $46 million and realized a gain of $25 million, net of costs to sell. Restricted Cash and Contingent Consideration Primarily in connection with our acquisitions of PopCap, KlickNation, and Chillingo, we may be required to pay an additional $566 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015. In connection with our PopCap acquisition, we acquired $6 million of restricted cash which is held in an escrow account in the event that certain liabilities become due. As these deposits are restricted in nature, they are excluded from cash and cash equivalents. As of December 31, 2012 , the restricted cash of $6 million is included in other current assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. Fiscal 2013 Restructuring On May 7, 2012, we announced a restructuring plan to align our cost structure with our ongoing digital transformation. Under this plan, we reduced our workforce, terminated licensing agreements, and consolidated or closed various facilities. As of December 31, 2012, we have completed all actions under this restructuring plan. Since the inception of the fiscal 2013 restructuring plan through December 31, 2012, we have incurred charges of $23 million , consisting of (1) $10 million in employee-related expenses, (2) $9 million related to license termination costs, and (3) $4 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities. Substantially all of these costs will be settled in cash by March 31, 2013, with the exception of approximately $4 million of license and lease termination costs, which will be settled by August 2016. We do not expect to incur any additional restructuring charges under this plan. In connection with our fiscal 2013 restructuring plan, we expect to incur cash expenditures through May 2016 of approximately (1) less than a $1 million during the remainder of fiscal year 2013, (2) $2 million in fiscal year 2014, (3) $1 million in fiscal year 2015, (4) and less than $1 million in fiscal years 2016 and 2017. Fiscal 2011 Restructuring In connection with our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan, we expect to incur cash expenditures through June 2016 of approximately (1) $8 million during the remainder of fiscal year 2013 , (2) $25 million in fiscal year 2014 , (3) $18 million in fiscal year 2015 , (4) $3 million in fiscal year 2016 , and (5) $19 million in fiscal year 2017. The actual cash expenditures are variable as they will be dependent upon the actual revenue we generate from certain games. Financing Arrangement In July 2011, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the Notes). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations which pay interest semiannually in arrears at a rate of 0.75 percent per annum on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2012 and will mature on July 15, 2016, unless earlier purchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes are convertible into cash and shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion value of 31.5075 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $31.74 per share). Upon conversion of the Notes, holders will receive cash up to the principal amount of each Note, and any excess conversion value will be delivered in shares of our common stock. We used the net proceeds of the Notes to finance the cash consideration of our acquisition of PopCap, which closed in August 2011. Prior to April 15, 2016, the Notes will be convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods, and thereafter, at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of the Notes. The Notes do not contain any financial covenants. The conversion rate is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. Following certain corporate events described in the indenture governing the notes (the Indenture) that occur prior to the maturity date, the conversion rate will be increased for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such corporate event in certain circumstances. The Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity, and no sinking fund is provided for the Notes. If we undergo a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, subject to certain conditions, holders may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their Notes. The fundamental change purchase price will be 100 percent of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to but excluding the fundamental change purchase date. 54 Table of Contents The Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare 100 percent of the principal and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Notes to be due and payable. In addition, in July 2011, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the Convertible Note Hedge) with certain counterparties to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. The Convertible Note Hedge, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, provides us with the option to acquire, on a net settlement basis, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.74, which corresponds to the conversion price of the Notes and is equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes. As of December 31, 2012 , we have not purchased any shares under the Convertible Note Hedge. We paid $107 million for the Convertible Note Hedge. Separately, we have also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the certain counterparties whereby we sold to independent third parties warrants (the Warrants) to acquire, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments that are substantially the same as the anti-dilution provisions contained in the Notes, up to 19.9 million shares of our common stock (which is also equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes), with a strike price of $41.14. The Warrants could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds $41.14 on or prior to the expiration date of the Warrants. We received proceeds of $65 million from the sale of the Warrants. See Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. Credit Facility On August 30, 2012 , we entered into a $500 million 3.5 year senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The credit facility terminates on February 29, 2016 and contains an option to arrange with existing lenders and/or new lenders for them to provide up to an aggregate of $250 million in additional commitments for revolving loans. Proceeds of loans made under the credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes. The loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus an applicable spread or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable spread, in each case with such spread being determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio for the preceding fiscal quarter. We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type. Interest is due and payable in arrears quarterly for loans bearing interest at the base rate and at the end of an interest period (or at each three month interval in the case of loans with interest periods greater than three months) in the case of loans bearing interest at the adjusted LIBOR rate. Principal, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, is due and payable on February 29, 2016 . The credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur subsidiary indebtedness, grant liens, dispose of all or substantially all assets and pay dividends or make distributions, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. We are also required to maintain compliance with a capitalization ratio and maintain a minimum level of total liquidity and a minimum level of domestic liquidity. The credit agreement contains customary events of default, including among others, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults and a change of control default, in each case, subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. The occurrence of an event of default could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the credit agreement, an obligation by any guarantors to repay the obligations in full and an increase in the applicable interest rate. As of December 31, 2012 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. 55 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2012 , approximately $835 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments and $12 million of our marketable equity securities were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. In addition, subsequent to December 31, 2012, we sold all of our marketable equity securities. See page 53 for additional information. In February 2011, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the following 18 months. We completed that program in April 2012. We repurchased approximately 32 million shares in the open market under that program, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. During the three months ended June 30, 2012 , we repurchased and retired approximately 4.3 million shares of our common stock for approximately $71 million, under that program. In July 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock. Under this new program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three months ended December 31, 2012 , we repurchased and retired approximately 12.2 million shares of our common stock for approximately $157 million, under this new program. We continue to actively repurchase shares under this program. During the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , we repurchased and retired approximately 24.9 million shares of our common stock for approximately $336 million. Of these repurchases, approximately 20.6 million shares were repurchased under the July 2012 program for approximately $265 million. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non-employee software developers (independent artists or third-party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fuball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League) (professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR, Tiger Woods and Augusta National (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); National Football League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football); Zuffa, LLC (Ultimate Fighting Championship); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (most of Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties); and LucasArts and Lucas Licensing ( Star Wars: The Old Republic ). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon 56 Table of Contents performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012 , and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2013 (Remaining Total three mos.) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thereafter Unrecognized commitments Developer/licensor commitments $ 1,166 $ 42 $ 174 $ 166 $ 207 $ 70 $ 54 $ 453 Marketing commitments 239 14 54 34 34 20 20 63 Operating leases 177 13 51 42 28 16 11 16 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 interest (a) 19 2 5 5 5 2 Other purchase obligations 47 14 23 9 1 Total unrecognized commitments 1,648 85 307 256 275 108 85 532 Recognized commitments 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 principal (a) 633 633 Licensing and lease obligations (b) 84 9 28 20 5 20 1 1 Total recognized commitments 717 9 28 20 5 653 1 1 Total commitments $ 2,365 $ 94 $ 335 $ 276 $ 280 $ 761 $ 86 $ 533 (a) Included in the $19 million coupon interest on the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 is $2 million of accrued interest recognized as of December 31, 2012. We will be obligated to pay the $632.5 million principal amount of the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 in cash and any excess conversion value in shares of our common stock upon redemption of the Notes at maturity on July 15, 2016 or upon earlier redemption. The $632.5 million principal amount excludes $79 million of unamortized discount of the liability component. See Note 12 for additional information regarding our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. (b) See Note 8 for additional information regarding recognized commitments resulting from our restructuring plans. Lease commitments have not been reduced for approximately $5 million due in the future from third parties under non-cancelable sub-leases. The unrecognized amounts represented in the table above reflect our minimum cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be recognized and expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the amounts in the table above are presented based on the dates the amounts are contractually due as of December 31, 2012 ; however, certain payment obligations may be accelerated depending on the performance of our operating results. In addition to what is included in the table above as of December 31, 2012 , we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $267 million , of which we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. In addition to what is included in the table above, as of December 31, 2012 , primarily in connection with our PopCap, KlickNation, and Chillingo acquisitions, we may be required to pay an additional $566 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015. As of December 31, 2012 , we have accrued $42 million of contingent consideration on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration. 57 Table of Contents OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments As of December 31, 2012 , we leased certain facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. 58 Table of Contents