Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Quarterly Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 22, 2013 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 as filed with the SEC on May 22, 2013 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute game software content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as Sonys PLAYSTATION 3 and 4 and Microsofts Xbox 360 and One), personal computers, mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), and the Internet. Our ability to publish games across multiple platforms, through multiple distribution channels, and directly to consumers (online and wirelessly) has been, and will continue to be, a cornerstone of our product strategy. We have generated substantial growth in new business models and alternative revenue streams (such as subscription, micro-transactions, and advertising) based on the continued expansion of our online and wireless product and service offerings. Some of our games are based on our wholly-owned intellectual property ( e.g. , Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims, Bejeweled, and Plants vs. Zombies), and some of our games are based on content that we license from others ( e.g. , FIFA and Madden NFL). Our goal is to turn our core intellectual properties into year-round businesses available on a range of platforms. Our products and services may be purchased through physical and online retailers, platform providers such as console manufacturers and mobile carriers via digital downloads, as well as directly through our own distribution platform, including online portals such as Origin. Financial Results Total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013 was $808 million , a decrease of $114 million , or 12 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . At December 31, 2013 , deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled games increased by $764 million as compared to September 30, 2013, directly decreasing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2013 . At December 31, 2012 , deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled games increased by $260 million as compared to September 30, 2012, directly decreasing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Disregarding the impact of the deferred net revenue, reported net revenue would have increased by approximately $390 million , or 33 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013 was driven by FIFA 2014 , Battlefield 4 , and Madden NFL 25. 32 Table of Contents Net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2013 was $308 million as compared to $45 million for the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Diluted loss per share for the three months ended December 31, 2013 was $1.00 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.15 for the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Net loss increased for the three months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 primarily as a result of (1) a $202 million decrease in gross profit due to an increase in our estimated offering period for physical games sold through retail after July 1, 2013 and a higher percentage of our sales being subject to deferral, which further delayed the recognition of revenue, (2) a $45 million benefit from a reversal of acquisition-related contingent consideration charges primarily in connection with PopCap that occurred during the three months ended December 31, 2012 that didnt exist in the current quarter, and (3) a $21 million increase in general and administrative costs. These increases in costs were partially offset by a (1) $6 million decrease in marketing and sales expenses primarily due to a decrease in headcount and (2) $3 million decrease in research and development costs. Trends in Our Business Next-generation Console Systems . Both Microsoft and Sony released new video game console systems in November 2013. EA is continuing to invest in products and services for these next-generation consoles. In the near term, we expect to continue to develop and market products and services for current-generation consoles including the Xbox 360 and PLAYSTATION 3 while also developing products and services for the Xbox One and PLAYSTATION 4. In the quarter ended December, 31, 2013, industry sales of major games for current-generation consoles declined at a faster-than-anticipated rate. During this period, the adoption of next-generation consoles has been faster than we expected but not enough to offset the decline in sales of our current-generation console games. The success of our products and services for next generation consoles depends in part on the commercial success and adequate supply of these new consoles, our ability to accurately predict which platforms will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products and services for these platforms. Digital Content Distribution and Services . Consumers are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of online-delivered products and services including those available through our Origin platform. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available through direct online download via the Internet. We also offer online-delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices. We significantly increased the revenue that we derive from wireless, Internet-derived and advertising (digital) products and services from $1,159 million in fiscal year 2012 to $1,440 million in fiscal year 2013. During the nine months ended December 31, 2013, digital revenue was $1,342 million and we expect this portion of our business to continue to grow in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2014 and beyond. Wireless and Internet Platforms; Casual and Mobile Games . Advances in technology have resulted in a variety of platforms for interactive entertainment. Examples include wireless technologies, streaming game services, and Internet-based platforms. These technologies, services and platforms grow the consumer base for our business and have led to the growth of casual and mobile gaming. Casual and mobile games are characterized by their mass appeal, simple controls, flexible monetization (including free-to-play and micro-transaction business models) and fun and approachable gameplay. These games appeal to a larger consumer demographic - including younger and older players and more female players - than video games played on console devices. We expect sales of casual and mobile games for wireless and other emerging platforms to continue to be an important part of our business. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games . We see a larger portion of packaged goods games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, and those titles are typically sequels of prior games. We have responded to this trend by significantly reducing the number of games that we produce to provide greater focus on our most promising intellectual properties. We published 36 primary packaged goods titles in fiscal year 2011, 22 in fiscal year 2012, 13 in fiscal year 2013, and in fiscal year 2014, we expect to release 11 major titles. Evolving Sales Patterns . Our business has evolved from a traditional packaged goods business model to one where our games are played on a variety of platforms including mobile devices. Our strategy is to transform our core intellectual properties into year-round businesses, with a steady flow of downloadable content and extensions on new platforms. Our increasingly digital, multi-platform business no longer reflects the retail sales patterns associated with traditional packaged goods launches. For example, we offer our consumers additional services and/or additional content available through online services to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase. Our casual and mobile games offer free-to-play and micro-transaction models. The revenue we derive from these services has become 33 Table of Contents increasingly significant year-over-year. Our service revenue represented 8 percent, 13 percent, and 24 percent of total net revenue in fiscal years 2011, 2012, and 2013, respectively. Recent Developments Stock Repurchase Program. In July 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2013 , we repurchased and retired approximately 22 million shares of our common stock for approximately $278 million under this program. During the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns and Allowances, and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games, and related content and services on (1) video game consoles (such as Sonys PLAYSTATION 3 and 4 and Microsofts Xbox 360 and One) and PCs, (2) mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), and (3) tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle). We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition . We classify our revenue as either product revenue or service and other revenue. Product revenue. Our product revenue includes revenue associated with the sale of software games or related content, whether delivered via a physical disc ( e . g ., packaged goods) or via the Internet ( e.g., full-game downloads, micro-transactions), and licensing of game software to third-parties. Product revenue also includes revenue from mobile full game downloads that do not require our hosting support, and sales of tangible products such as hardware, peripherals, or collectors items. Service and other revenue. Our service revenue includes revenue recognized from time-based subscriptions and games or related content that requires our hosting support in order to utilize the game or related content ( i.e. , cannot be played without an Internet connection). This includes (1) entitlements to content that are accessed through hosting services ( e.g., micro-transactions for Internet-based, social network and mobile games), (2) massively multi-player online (MMO) games (both software game and subscription sales), (3) subscriptions for our Pogo-branded online game services, and (4) allocated service revenue from sales of software games with an online service element ( i.e., matchmaking service). Our other revenue includes advertising and non-software licensing revenue. With respect to the allocated service revenue from sales of software games with a matchmaking service mentioned above, our allocation of proceeds between product and service revenue for presentation purposes is based on managements best estimate of the selling price of the matchmaking service with the residual value allocated to product revenue. Our estimate of the selling price of the matchmaking service is comprised of several factors including, but not limited to, prior selling prices for the matchmaking service, prices charged separately by other third-party vendors for similar service offerings, and a cost-plus-margin approach. We review the estimated selling price of the online matchmaking service on a regular basis and use this methodology consistently to allocate revenue between product and service for software game sales with a matchmaking service. We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement . Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver the related products or services must be present. 34 Table of Contents Fixed or determinable fee . If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable . Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable as the amounts become due, we generally conclude that collection becomes probable upon cash collection. Delivery . Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. For digital downloads, delivery is considered to occur when the software is made available to the customer for download. For services and other, delivery is generally considered to occur as the service is delivered, which is determined based on the underlying service obligation. Online-Enabled Games The majority of our software games can be connected to the Internet whereby a consumer may be able to download unspecified content or updates on a when-and-if-available basis (unspecified updates) for use with the original game software. In addition, we may also offer an online matchmaking service that permits consumers to play against each other via the Internet without a separate fee. U.S. GAAP requires us to account for the consumers right to receive unspecified updates or the matchmaking service for no additional fee as a bundled sale, or multiple-element arrangement. We have an established historical pattern of providing unspecified updates to online-enabled games ( e.g., player roster updates to Madden NFL 25 ) at no additional charge to the consumer. We do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) for these unspecified updates, and thus, as required by U.S. GAAP, we recognize revenue from the sale of these online-enabled games over the period we expect to offer the unspecified updates to the consumer (estimated offering period). Estimated Offering Period Because the offering period is not an explicitly defined period, we must make an estimate of the offering period. Determining the estimated offering period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. For example, in determining the estimated offering period for unspecified updates associated with our online-enabled games, we consider the period of time consumers are online as online connectivity is required. On an annual basis, we review consumers online gameplay of all online-enabled games that have been released 12 to 24 months prior to the evaluation date. For example, if our evaluation date is April 1, 2013, we evaluate all online-enabled games released between April 1, 2011 and March 31, 2012. Based on this population of games, for all players that register the game online within the first six months of release of the game to the general public, we compute the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game, based on when a player initially registers the game online to when that player last plays the game online. We then compute the weighted-average number of days for all online-enabled games by multiplying the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game by its relative percentage of total units sold from these online-enabled games ( i.e., a game with more units sold will have a higher weighting to the overall computation than a game with fewer units sold). Under a similar computation, we also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to an end consumer ( i.e., time in channel). Based on these two calculations we then consider the method of distribution. For example , physical software games sold at retail would have a composite offering period equal to the online gameplay plus time in channel as opposed to digitally distributed software games which are delivered immediately via digital download and thus have no concept of channel. Additionally, we consider, results from prior years, known online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors games in determining the estimated offering period for future sales. While we consistently apply this methodology, inherent assumptions used in this methodology include which online-enabled games to sample, whether to use only units that have registered online, whether to weight the number of days for each game, whether to weight the days based on the units sold of each game, determining the period of time between the date of sale to reseller and the date of sale to the consumer and assessing online gameplay trends. Prior to July 1, 2013, for most sales we estimated the offering period to be six months and recognized revenue over this period in the month after delivery. We completed our annual evaluation of the estimated offering period and concluded that for physical software sales made after June 30, 2013, the estimated offering period should be increased to nine months, resulting in revenue being recognized over a longer period of time. The estimated offering period for digitally distributed software games is six months. This change in estimate for physical software sales is due to our consumers playing our games online over a longer period of time. We expect net revenue to be up to $385 million lower than Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in fiscal year 2014 primarily due to this change in estimated offering period. 35 Table of Contents Other Multiple-Element Arrangements In some of our multiple-element arrangements, we sell tangible products with software and/or software-related offerings. These tangible products are generally either peripherals or ancillary collectors items, such as figurines and comic books. Revenue for these arrangements is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each deliverable using the relative selling prices of each deliverable in the arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy described below. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the software deliverables as a group and then allocated to each software deliverable in accordance with ASC 985-605. We determine the selling price for a tangible product deliverable based on the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE ( i.e. , the price we charge when the tangible product is sold separately) if available, third-party evidence (TPE) of fair value ( i.e. , the price charged by others for similar tangible products) if VSOE is not available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Determining the BESP is a subjective process that is based on multiple factors including, but not limited to, recent selling prices and related discounts, market conditions, customer classes, sales channels and other factors. In accordance with ASC 605, provided the other three revenue recognition criteria other than delivery have been met, we recognize revenue upon delivery to the customer as we have no further obligations. We must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element is delivered, (2) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements, as applicable. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, or changes to the elements in the arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Sales Returns and Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We reduce revenue primarily for estimated future returns and price protection which may occur with our distributors and retailers (channel partners). Price protection represents our practice to provide our channel partners with a credit allowance to lower their wholesale price on a particular product in the channel. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old wholesale price and the new reduced wholesale price. In certain countries for our PC and console packaged goods software products, we also have a practice of allowing channel partners to return older software products in the channel in exchange for a credit allowance. As a general practice, we do not give cash refunds. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze the following: historical credit allowances, current sell-through of our channel partners inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand, acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection allowances would change and would impact the total net revenue, accounts receivable and deferred net revenue that we report. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating the following: customer creditworthiness, current economic trends, historical experience, age of current accounts receivable balances, changes in financial condition or payment terms of our customers. Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. The amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly as a result of a change in any of the evaluation factors mentioned above. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which 36 Table of Contents uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the expected receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates is inherently difficult and subjective, and if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to these assessments: Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, which is an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration requires an assessment of the probability-weighted expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures the risk associated with the obligation. The significant unobservable input used in the fair value measurement of the contingent consideration payable are forecasted earnings. Significant changes in forecasted earnings would result in significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long-Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived acquisition-related intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated future cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. In assessing impairment on our goodwill, we first analyze qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount as a basis for determining whether it is necessary to perform the two-step goodwill impairment test. The qualitative factors we assess include long-term prospects of our performance, share price trends, and Company specific events. If we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, we do not need to perform the two-step impairment test. If based on that assessment, we believe it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, a two-step goodwill impairment test will be performed. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. Reporting units are determined by the components of operating segments that constitute a business for which (1) discrete financial information is available, (2) segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component, and (3) whether the component has similar economic characteristics to other components. 37 Table of Contents To determine the fair value of each reporting unit used in the first step, we use the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows, or a combination thereof. Determining whether an event or change in circumstances does or does not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount is inherently subjective. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates, tax rates, and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on a weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. As of our last annual assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013, we concluded that the estimated fair value of our reporting unit significantly exceeded its carrying amount and we have not identified any indicators of impairment since that assessment. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of inaccuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts with guaranteed minimums. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Furthermore, if we conclude that we are unable to make a reasonably reliable forecast of projected net revenue, we recognize royalty expense at the greater of contract rate or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product, and therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next 12 months. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are generally charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment generally using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts, and therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when 38 Table of Contents the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability in the United States, or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. In July 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-11, Income Taxes (Topic 220): Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax Benefit When a Net Operating Loss Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists . The amendments of this ASU require that entities that have an unrecognized tax benefit and a net operating loss carryforward or similar tax loss or tax credit carryforward in the same jurisdiction as the uncertain tax position present the unrecognized tax benefit as a reduction of the deferred tax asset for the loss or tax credit carryforward rather than as a liability when the uncertain tax position would reduce the loss or tax credit carryforward under the tax law. The disclosure requirements will be effective for annual periods (and interim periods within those annual periods) beginning after December 15, 2013, and will require prospective application. Early adoption is permitted. The adoption will impact our balance sheet only, and we expect to adopt this new standard in the first quarter of fiscal year 2015. While we have not completed our analysis, we anticipate the adoption will result in equal reductions to both deferred tax assets and noncurrent income tax obligations between $50 million and $100 million. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ending or ended, as the case may be, March 31, 2014 and 2013 contain 52 weeks each and ends or ended, as the case may be, on March 29, 2014 and March 30, 2013, respectively. Our results of operations for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 contained 13 and 39 weeks each, respectively, and ended on December 28, 2013 and December 29, 2012 , respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. 39 Table of Contents Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods or as digital downloads and designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3 and 4 and Xbox 360 and One) and PCs, (2) video games for mobile devices (such as the Apple iPhone and Google Android compatible phones), (3) video games for tablets and electronic readers (such as the Apple iPad and Amazon Kindle), (4) separate software products and content and online game services associated with these products, (5) licensing our game software to third parties, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. We provide three different measures of our Net Revenue. Two of these measures are presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP - (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue and (2) Net Revenue by Geography. The third measure is a non-GAAP financial measure - Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by Revenue Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. We use this third non-GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by Revenue Composition than by Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue. These two measures differ as (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue reflects the deferral and recognition of revenue in periods subsequent to the date of sale due to U.S. GAAP while Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by Revenue Composition does not, and (2) both measures contain a different aggregation of sales from one another. For instance, Service and other revenue does not include a portion of our full-game digital download and mobile sales that are fully included in our Digital revenue. Further, Service and other revenue includes all of our revenue associated with MMO games while software sales associated with our MMOs are included in either Digital revenue or Publishing and other revenue depending on whether the sale was a full-game digital download or a packaged goods sale. Net Revenue Quarterly Analysis Net Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , Net Revenue was $808 million and decreased $114 million , or 12 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This decrease was driven by a $208 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Medal of Honor, Madden, and FIFA franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $94 million increase in revenue primarily from the Battlefield and Real Racing franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic. Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our total net revenue by product revenue and service and other revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 485 $ 703 $ (218 ) (31 )% Service and other 323 219 104 47 % Total net revenue $ 808 $ 922 $ (114 ) (12 )% Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , product revenue was $485 million , primarily driven by FIFA 2014, Madden NFL 25, and Battlefield 4 . Product revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013 decreased $218 million , or 31 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This decrease was driven by a $261 million decrease primarily from the FIFA, Madden, and Medal of Honor franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $43 million increase primarily from the Battlefield franchise. 40 Table of Contents Service and Other Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , service and other revenue was $323 million , primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team and Star Wars: The Old Republic. Service and other revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013 increased $104 million , or 47 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase was driven by a $120 million increase primarily from the FIFA, Madden and Real Racing franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic . This increase was partially offset by a $16 million decrease primarily from lower revenue from Sims Social, which shut down in June 2013 , the Mass Effect franchise, and Pogo-branded online game services. Net Revenue by Geography We attribute net revenue from external customers to individual countries based on the location of the legal entity that sells the products and/or services. Note that revenue attributed to the legal entity that makes the sale is often not the country where the consumer resides. For example, revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities includes wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) revenue from consumers who reside outside of Switzerland, including consumers who reside outside of Europe. Revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities during the three months ended December 31, 2013 represented $194 million , or 24 percent , of our total net revenue. Revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities during the three months ended December 31, 2012 represented $196 million , or 21 percent , of our total net revenue. Revenue generated in the United States represents over 99 percent of our total North America net revenue. There were no other countries with net revenue greater than 10 percent . Three Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2013 2012 $ Change % Change North America $ 338 $ 409 $ (71 ) (17 )% International 470 513 (43 ) (8 )% Total net revenue $ 808 $ 922 $ (114 ) (12 )% Net revenue in North America was $338 million , or 42 percent of total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013 , compared to $409 million , or 44 percent of total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2012 , a decrease of $71 million , or 17 percent . Net revenue in North America decreased primarily due to decreased revenue in our Madden, Medal of Honor and NCAA Football franchises, partially offset by increased revenue in our Battlefield and SimCity franchises, as well as Star Wars: The Old Republic , during the three months ended December 31, 2013 . International net revenue was $470 million , or 58 percent of total net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2013 , compared to $513 million , or 56 percent of total net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2012 , a decrease of $43 million , or 8 percent . We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily due to the Euro) increased reported International net revenue by approximately $11 million, or 2 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the exchange rates in effect for the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from International net revenue, we estimate that International net revenue decreased by $54 million, or 10 percent for the three months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . International net revenue decreased primarily due to our FIFA, Medal of Honor and The Sims franchises, offset by increased revenue in our Battlefield, Plants vs. Zombies, and Real Racing franchises during the three months ended December 31, 2013 . Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally via the Internet, we place a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of net revenue by revenue composition. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, a non-GAAP financial measure, is provided in this section of MD&A, including a discussion of the components of this measure: (1) publishing and other, (2) wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital), and (3) distribution. See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for an explanation of our use of this non-GAAP financial measure. A reconciliation to the corresponding measure calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP is provided in the discussion below. 41 Table of Contents Revenue Deferral in this Net Revenue section generally includes the unrecognized revenue from bundled sales of certain online-enabled games for which we do not have VSOE for the unspecified updates. Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of products that we sell with the online features and services previously discussed, while the Recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period is also dependent upon (1) the amount deferred, (2) the period of time the software-related offerings are to be provided, and (3) the timing of the sale. For example, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first quarter of a fiscal year are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, substantially all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year. Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change Publishing and other $ 1,027 $ 742 $ 285 38 % Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 517 407 110 27 % Distribution 28 33 (5 ) (15 )% Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 1,572 1,182 390 33 % Revenue Deferral (1,388 ) (971 ) (417 ) (43 )% Recognition of Revenue Deferral 624 711 (87 ) (12 )% Total net revenue $ 808 $ 922 $ (114 ) (12 )% Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral Publishing and Other Revenue Publishing revenue includes sales of software that is distributed physically. This includes (1) sales of our internally-developed and co-published game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, and (2) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (OEM bundles). Other revenue includes our non-software licensing revenue. For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $1,027 million , primarily driven by Battlefield 4, FIFA 2014 , and Need for Speed: Rivals . Publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2013 increased $285 million , or 38 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase was driven by a $492 million increase in sales primarily from the Battlefield and FIFA franchises . This increase was partially offset by a $207 million decrease in sales primarily from the Medal of Honor, The Sims, and Need for Speed franchises . Wireless, Internet-derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue Digital revenue includes sales of software distributed through direct download through the Internet. This includes internally-developed and co-published game software distributed through our direct-to-consumer platform Origin, distributed wirelessly through mobile carriers, or licensed to our third-party publishing partners who distribute our games digitally. This includes our full-game downloads, mobile and tablet revenue (each of which are generally classified as product revenue with the exception of our MMO game downloads and freemium mobile games which are classified as service revenue) as well as subscription services, micro-transactions, and advertising revenues (each of which is generally classified as service and other revenue). For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , digital Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $517 million , an increase of $ 110 million , or 27 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase is due to (1) a $69 million or 157 percent increase in full-game downloads primarily from the launch of Battlefield 4 this quarter, (2) a $28 million or 15 percent increase in extra content and free-to-play sales primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , FIFA Online 3 , and Star Wars: The Old Republic , and (3) a $26 million or 26 percent increase in mobile sales primarily driven by Real Racing 3 , Plants vs. Zombies 2 , and The Simpsons: Tapped Out . These increases were partially offset by a $13 million or 16 percent decrease in subscription and advertising sales primarily driven by a slight decline in our Pogo-branded online game services and Star Wars: The Old Republic . 42 Table of Contents Distribution Revenue Distribution revenue includes (1) sales of game software developed by independent game developers that we distribute and (2) sales through our Switzerland distribution business. For the three months ended December 31, 2013 , distribution net revenue decreased $5 million , or 15 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in our Switzerland distribution business. Revenue Deferral Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2013 increased $417 million , or 43 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . Substantially all of this increase was due to a $395 million increase in Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral related to our publishing and other and digital sales. Recognition of Revenue Deferral Our non-distribution sales are generally deferred and recognized over an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for physical games sold through retail and an estimated six-month period for digitally distributed games, and therefore, the related revenue recognized during the fiscal quarter ended December 31 is primarily due to sales that occurred during the preceding three-month period ended September 30 for digitally distributed games and the preceding six-month period for physical games sold through retail. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2013 decreased $87 million , or 12 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This decrease was primarily due to the change in our estimated offering period during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 for physical games sold through retail. We anticipate that our fiscal year 2014 net revenue will be lower than our fiscal year 2013 net revenue primarily as a result of a change in our estimated offering period for physical software games sold through retail, partially offset by an increase in sales. Prior to the second quarter of fiscal 2014, the estimated offering period for physical software games was six months; however, beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2014, this estimated offering period was increased to nine months. Because we recognize our online-enabled games over an estimated offering period, this change in estimate has the effect of delaying the recognition of revenue to fiscal year 2015. We do not expect this change in estimated offering period to impact the amount of Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral or the operating cash flows that we report. We expect net revenue to be up to $385 million lower than Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in fiscal year 2014 primarily due to the change in our estimated offering period. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral on Net Revenue related to sales of games and digital content. We believe that excluding the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral related to games and digital content from our operating results is important to facilitate comparisons between periods in understanding our underlying sales performance for the period, and understanding our operations because all related costs of revenues are expensed as incurred instead of deferred and recognized ratably. We use this non-GAAP financial measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies. 43 Table of Contents Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue by Revenue Composition Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Product revenue: Publishing and other $ 337 $ 554 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 120 116 Distribution 28 33 Total product revenue 485 703 Service and other revenue: Publishing and other 33 14 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 290 205 Total service and other revenue 323 219 Total net revenue $ 808 $ 922 Net Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , Net Revenue was $2,452 million and decreased $136 million , or 5 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . This decrease was driven by a $570 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Mass Effect, FIFA Street, and Madden franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $434 million increase in revenue primarily from the SimCity, Crysis, and Dead Space franchises . Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our total net revenue by product revenue and service and other revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 1,378 $ 1,886 $ (508 ) (27 )% Service and other $ 1,074 $ 702 $ 372 53 % Total net revenue $ 2,452 $ 2,588 $ (136 ) (5 )% Product Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , product revenue was $1,378 million , primarily driven by FIFA 2014 , FIFA 2013 , and Need for Speed: Most Wanted . Product revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 decreased $508 million , or 27 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . This decrease was driven by a $678 million decrease primarily from the Mass Effect, Battlefield, FIFA Street and Madden franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $170 million increase primarily from the Crysis, Dead Space, and Army of Two franchises. 44 Table of Contents Service and Other Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , service and other revenue was $1,074 million , primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, SimCity , and Star Wars: The Old Republic. Service and other revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 increased $372 million , or 53 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase was driven by a $434 million increase primarily from the SimCity, FIFA, and Battlefield franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $62 million decrease primarily from lower subscription revenue from Star Wars: The Old Republic, Sims Social , which shut down in June 2013 , and Pogo-branded online game services. Net Revenue by Geography Revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 represented $733 million , or 30 percent , of our total net revenue. Revenue generated by our Swiss legal entities during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 represented $561 million , or 22 percent , of our total net revenue. Revenue generated in the United States represents over 99 percent of our total North America net revenue. There were no other countries with net revenue greater than 10 percent . Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2013 2012 $ Change % Change North America $ 1,036 $ 1,188 $ (152 ) (13 )% International $ 1,416 $ 1,400 $ 16 1 % Total net revenue $ 2,452 $ 2,588 $ (136 ) (5 )% Net revenue in North America was $1,036 million , or 42 percent of total net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , compared to $1,188 million , or 46 percent of total net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , a decrease of $152 million , or 13 percent . Net revenue in North America decreased primarily due to decreased revenue in our Mass Effect and Madden franchises as well as Kingdom of Amalur: Reckoning , partially offset by increased revenue in our SimCity, Dead Space and Crysis franchises during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 . International net revenue was $1,416 million , or 58 percent of total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , compared to $1,400 million , or 54 percent of total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , an increase of $16 million , or 1 percent . We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily due to the Euro) decreased reported International net revenue by approximately $65 million, or 5 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the exchange rates in effect for the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from International net revenue, we estimate that International net revenue increased by approximately $81 million, or 6 percent for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . International net revenue increased primarily due to our FIFA, SimCity, and Crysis franchises, partially offset by decreased revenue in our Mass Effect, FIFA Street, and Battlefield franchises during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 . Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition Our total net revenue by revenue composition for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 $ Change % Change Publishing and other $ 1,799 $ 1,632 167 10 % Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) $ 1,243 $ 1,045 198 19 % Distribution $ 65 $ 76 (11 ) (14 )% Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral $ 3,107 $ 2,753 354 13 % Revenue Deferral $ (2,622 ) $ (2,166 ) $ (456 ) (21 )% Recognition of Revenue Deferral $ 1,967 $ 2,001 $ (34 ) (2 )% Total net revenue $ 2,452 $ 2,588 $ (136 ) (5 )% Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral 45 Table of Contents Publishing and Other Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $1,799 million , primarily driven by FIFA 2014 , Battlefield 4, and Madden NFL 25 . Publishing and other Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 increased $167 million , or 10 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase was driven by a $471 million increase in sales primarily from the Battlefield and FIFA franchises . This increase was partially offset by a $304 million decrease in sales primarily from the Medal of Honor, The Sims and Madden franchises . Wireless, Internet-derived, and Advertising (Digital) Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , digital Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $1,243 million , an increase of $198 million , or 19 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase is due to (1) a $90 million or 78 percent increase in full-game download primarily driven by Battlefield 4 and SimCity , (2) an $88 million or 21 percent increase in extra content and free-to-play sales primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , FIFA Online 3 , and Star Wars: The Old Republic, and (3) a $65 million or 24 percent increase in mobile sales primarily driven by The Simpsons: Tapped Out , Real Racing 3 , and Plants vs. Zombies 2. These increases were partially offset by a $45 million or 19 percent decrease in subscription sales primarily driven by Star Wars: The Old Republic . In the previous year, Star Wars: The Old Republic was a subscription-only based MMO. This year, some of the revenue from this title was recognized in the free-to-play category as we expanded this title to be both a subscription and free-to-play game. Distribution Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , distribution net revenue was $65 million and decreased $11 million , or 14 percent , compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . This decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in sales from The Secret World and our Switzerland distribution business. Revenue Deferral Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 increased $456 million , or 21 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Substantially all of this increase was due to a $383 million increase in Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral related to our Publishing and other and digital sales during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , and a higher percentage of both our publishing and other and digital sales being deferred and recognized over time. Recognition of Revenue Deferral The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 decreased $34 million , or 2 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , primarily due to the change in our estimated offering period during the second quarter of fiscal 2014 for physical games sold through retail. 46 Table of Contents Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue by Revenue Composition Our product and service and other revenue by revenue composition for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Product revenue: Publishing and other $ 929 $ 1,461 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 384 349 Distribution 65 76 Total product revenue 1,378 1,886 Service and other revenue: Publishing and other 116 64 Wireless, Internet-derived, and advertising (digital) 958 638 Total service and other revenue 1,074 702 Total net revenue $ 2,452 $ 2,588 Cost of Revenue Total cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 438 90.3 % $ 363 51.6 % 20.7 % 38.7 % Service and other 79 24.5 % 66 30.1 % 19.7 % (5.7 )% Total cost of revenue $ 517 64.0 % $ 429 46.5 % 20.5 % 17.5 % Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of product revenue increased by $75 million , or 20.7 percent in the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . The increase was primarily due to a $390 million increase in Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral during the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 , as well as royalties-related costs associated with FIFA 2014 and Madden NFL 25 , during the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . As a percentage of related net revenue, cost of product revenue increased primarily due to the timing of the deferral of the related revenue. Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (2) associated royalty costs, (3) credit card fees associated with our service revenue, (4) server costs related to our website advertising business, and (5) platform processing fees from operating our website-based games on third-party platforms. 47 Table of Contents Cost of service and other revenue increased by $13 million , or 19.7 percent in the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in royalties-related costs associated with FIFA Ultimate Team, Madden NFL Ultimate Team and FIFA World Class Soccer. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the three months ended December 31, 2013 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue increased by 17.5 percent as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to an increase in server and support costs associated with Battlefield 4, FIFA 2014 and Madden NFL 25 , as well as royalties-related costs associated with FIFA 2014 and Madden NFL 25 . Total cost of revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 909 66.0 % $ 866 45.9 % 5.0 % 20.0 % Service and other 215 20.0 % 213 30.3 % 0.9 % (10.3 )% Total cost of revenue $ 1,124 45.8 % $ 1,079 41.7 % 4.2 % 4.1 % Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue increased by $43 million , or 5.0 percent in the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . The increase was primarily due to a $354 million increase in Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as well as royalties-related costs associated with FIFA 2014 and Madden NFL 25 , during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue remained relatively consistent during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue increased by 4.1 percent as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . This increase as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to an increase in server and support costs associated with Battlefield 4, FIFA 2014 and Madden NFL 25 , as well as royalties-related costs associated with FIFA 2014 and Madden NFL 25 . Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of website content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 275 34 % $ 278 30 % $ (3 ) (1 )% Nine months ended $ 836 34 % $ 866 33 % $ (30 ) (3 )% 48 Table of Contents Research and development expenses decreased by $3 million , or 1 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 , primarily due to a $9 million decrease in contracted services due to a decrease in development advances as a result of fewer titles released this fiscal year as compared to the prior fiscal year. This was partially offset primarily by a $5 million increase in personnel-related costs. Research and development expenses decreased by $30 million , or 3 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , primarily due to a $39 million decrease in contracted services due to a decrease in development advances as a result of fewer titles released this fiscal year as compared to the prior fiscal year, an $8 million decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from a decrease in headcount, and a $5 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense. This was partially offset by a $23 million increase in facility-related costs. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 214 26 % $ 220 24 % $ (6 ) (3 )% Nine months ended $ 525 21 % $ 590 23 % $ (65 ) (11 )% Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $6 million , or 3 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 , primarily due to a $15 million decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from a decrease in headcount and a $9 million decrease in contracted services. This was partially offset by a $17 million increase in advertising and promotional spending on our franchises. Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $65 million , or 11 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , primarily due to (1) a $37 million decrease in personnel-related costs resulting from a decrease in headcount, (2) a $21 million decrease in contracted services, and (3) a $5 million decrease in advertising and promotional spending on our franchises as compared to the prior year. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 91 11 % $ 70 8 % $ 21 30 % Nine months ended $ 305 12 % $ 258 10 % $ 47 18 % General and administrative expenses increased $21 million , or 30 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to (1) a $10 million increase in contracted services, (2) $5 million increase in bad debt expense, and (3) a $4 million increase in personnel-related costs. General and administrative expenses increased $47 million , or 18 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to (1) a $30 million accrual related to the anticipated settlement of a litigation matter related to our college football franchise, (2) a $10 million loss on a license related to our college football franchise, and (3) a $6 million increase in contracted services. 49 Table of Contents Acquisition-Related Contingent Consideration Acquisition-related contingent consideration for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ % $ (45 ) (5 )% $ 45 100 % Nine months ended $ (37 ) (2 )% $ (65 ) (3 )% $ 28 43 % During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 , acquisition-related contingent consideration decreased by $45 million and $28 million , respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 , primarily resulting from a change in our earn-out estimates related to our PopCap acquisition. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 4 % $ 7 1 % $ (3 ) (43 )% Nine months ended $ 12 % $ 21 1 % $ (9 ) (43 )% During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 , amortization of intangibles decreased by $3 million , or 43 percent , and $9 million , or 43 percent , respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2012 , primarily due to certain intangible assets from our acquisitions being fully amortized during fiscal year 2013. Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ (1 ) % $ 2 % $ (3 ) (150 )% Nine months ended $ (2 ) % $ 27 1 % $ (29 ) (107 )% During the three months ended December 31, 2013 , restructuring and other charges remained consistent as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 . During the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , restructuring and other charges decreased by $29 million , or 107 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , as there were no new restructuring initiatives in the current fiscal year. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section on page 52 for additional information regarding our previous restructuring plans. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2012 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ (6 ) (1 )% $ (8 ) (1 )% $ 2 25 % Nine months ended $ (19 ) (1 )% $ (17 ) (1 )% $ (2 ) (12 )% Interest and other income (expense), net, decreased $2 million , or 25 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to a $2 million decrease on foreign currency losses. 50 Table of Contents Interest and other income (expense), net, increased $2 million , or 12 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to a $2 million decrease in interest income and a $1 million decrease on foreign currency gains. Income Taxes Provisions for income taxes for the three months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2013 Effective Tax Rate December 31, 2012 Effective Tax Rate % Change Three months ended 10 3.4 % $ 12 36.4 % (17 )% Nine months ended 29 8.8 % $ 34 17.8 % (15 )% The provision for income taxes reported for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2014, and also includes certain discrete items recorded during the period. Our effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 was a tax expense of 3.4 percent and 8.8 percent , respectively, as compared to a tax expense of 36.4 percent and 17.8 percent , respectively, for the same periods of fiscal 2013. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to the U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized and non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit. The effective tax rate for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2013 differs from the same period in fiscal year 2013 primarily due to differences in pre-tax loss. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2014 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre-tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carryforward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States, and accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We are evaluating a possible one-time repatriation of undistributed earnings from certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. If we decide to repatriate some or all of our foreign earnings from these subsidiaries, our financial statements would not be materially different due to the effect of the deferred tax valuation allowance. In addition, we believe we have sufficient net operating loss carryforwards to materially offset any tax liability created by this potential decision. 51 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of December 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2013 Increase/(Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,746 $ 1,292 $ 454 Short-term investments 324 388 (64 ) Total $ 2,070 $ 1,680 $ 390 Percentage of total assets 37 % 33 % Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2013 2012 Change Cash provided by operating activities $ 431 $ 91 $ 340 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (25 ) 119 (144 ) Cash provided by (used in) financing activities 50 (347 ) 397 Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (2 ) 2 (4 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 454 $ (135 ) $ 589 Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Cash provided by operating activities increased $340 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . The change is primarily due to a $354 million increase in Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , and $48 million of lower operating expenses during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . These increases to operating cash flows were partially offset by a change in net receivables of $192 million. Investing Activities. Cash provided by investing activities decreased $144 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 primarily driven by (1) a $73 million decrease in proceeds received from maturities and sales of short-term investments during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , (2) a $26 million increase in purchases of short-term investments during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , (3) a $25 million decrease in proceeds from the sales of marketable equity securities during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 , and (4) a $25 million decrease in acquisition-related restricted cash during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Financing Activities. Cash used in financing activities decreased $397 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 primarily due to (1) $336 million used to repurchase and retire common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2012 as compared to no stock repurchases during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , (2) an increase of $32 million in proceeds received from the exercise of stock options during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , and (3) a $27 million decrease in acquisition-related contingent consideration payments during the nine months ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2012 . Short-term Investments Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of December 31, 2013 , our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of less than $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. Fiscal 2011 Restructuring In connection with our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan, we expect to incur cash expenditures through June 2016 of approximately (1) $7 million during the remainder of fiscal year 2014 , (2) $10 million in fiscal year 2015 , (3) $10 million in fiscal year 2016 , 52 Table of Contents and (4) $33 million in fiscal year 2017 . The actual cash expenditures are variable as they will be dependent upon the actual revenue we generate from certain games. Financing Arrangement In July 2011, we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 (the Notes). The Notes are senior unsecured obligations which pay interest semiannually in arrears at a rate of 0.75 percent per annum on January 15 and July 15 of each year, beginning on January 15, 2012 and will mature on July 15, 2016, unless earlier purchased or converted in accordance with their terms prior to such date. The Notes are convertible into cash and shares of our common stock based on an initial conversion value of 31.5075 shares of our common stock per $1,000 principal amount of Notes (equivalent to an initial conversion price of approximately $31.74 per share). Upon conversion of the Notes, holders will receive cash up to the principal amount of each Note, and any excess conversion value will be delivered in shares of our common stock. We used the net proceeds of the Notes to finance the cash consideration of our acquisition of PopCap, which closed in August 2011. Prior to April 15, 2016, the Notes will be convertible only upon the occurrence of certain events and during certain periods, and thereafter, at any time until the close of business on the second scheduled trading day immediately preceding the maturity date of the Notes. The Notes do not contain any financial covenants. The conversion rate is subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, but will not be adjusted for any accrued and unpaid interest. Following certain corporate events described in the indenture governing the notes (the Indenture) that occur prior to the maturity date, the conversion rate will be increased for a holder who elects to convert its Notes in connection with such corporate event in certain circumstances. The Notes are not redeemable prior to maturity, and no sinking fund is provided for the Notes. If we undergo a fundamental change, as defined in the Indenture, subject to certain conditions, holders may require us to purchase for cash all or any portion of their Notes. The fundamental change purchase price will be 100 percent of the principal amount of the Notes to be purchased plus any accrued and unpaid interest up to but excluding the fundamental change purchase date. The Indenture contains customary terms and covenants, including that upon certain events of default occurring and continuing, either the trustee or the holders of at least 25 percent in principal amount of the outstanding Notes may declare 100 percent of the principal and accrued and unpaid interest on all the Notes to be due and payable. In addition, in July 2011, we entered into privately negotiated convertible note hedge transactions (the Convertible Note Hedge) with certain counterparties to reduce the potential dilution with respect to our common stock upon conversion of the Notes. The Convertible Note Hedge, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, provides us with the option to acquire, on a net settlement basis, approximately 19.9 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $31.74, which corresponds to the conversion price of the Notes and is equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes. As of December 31, 2013 , we have not purchased any shares under the Convertible Note Hedge. We paid $107 million for the Convertible Note Hedge. Separately, we have also entered into privately negotiated warrant transactions with the certain counterparties whereby we sold to independent third parties warrants (the Warrants) to acquire, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments that are substantially the same as the anti-dilution provisions contained in the Notes, up to 19.9 million shares of our common stock (which is also equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Notes), with a strike price of $41.14. The Warrants could have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds $41.14 on or prior to the expiration date of the Warrants. We received proceeds of $65 million from the sale of the Warrants. See Note 12 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016. Credit Facility On August 30, 2012 , we entered into a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The credit facility terminates on February 29, 2016 and contains an option to arrange with existing lenders and/or new lenders for them to provide up to an aggregate of $250 million in additional commitments for revolving loans. Proceeds of loans made under the credit facility may be used for general corporate purposes. The loans bear interest, at our option, at the base rate plus an applicable spread or an adjusted LIBOR rate plus an applicable spread, in each case with such spread being determined based on our consolidated leverage ratio for the preceding fiscal quarter. 53 Table of Contents We are also obligated to pay other customary fees for a credit facility of this size and type. Interest is due and payable in arrears quarterly for loans bearing interest at the base rate and at the end of an interest period (or at each three month interval in the case of loans with interest periods greater than three months) in the case of loans bearing interest at the adjusted LIBOR rate. Principal, together with all accrued and unpaid interest, is due and payable on February 29, 2016 . The credit agreement contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including covenants that limit or restrict our ability to, among other things, incur subsidiary indebtedness, grant liens, dispose of all or substantially all assets and pay dividends or make distributions, in each case subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. We are also required to maintain compliance with a capitalization ratio and maintain a minimum level of total liquidity and a minimum level of domestic liquidity. The credit agreement contains customary events of default, including among others, non-payment defaults, covenant defaults, bankruptcy and insolvency defaults and a change of control default, in each case, subject to customary exceptions for a credit facility of this size and type. The occurrence of an event of default could result in the acceleration of the obligations under the credit agreement, an obligation by any guarantors to repay the obligations in full and an increase in the applicable interest rate. As of December 31, 2013 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. Financial Condition We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2013 , approximately $1,188 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States, and accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We are evaluating a possible one-time repatriation of undistributed earnings from certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries. If we decide to repatriate some or all of our foreign earnings from these subsidiaries, our financial statements would not be materially different due to the effect of the deferred tax valuation allowance. In addition, we believe we have sufficient net operating loss carryforwards to materially offset any tax liability created by this potential decision. In July 2012, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $500 million of our common stock. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During fiscal year 2013 , we repurchased and retired approximately 22 million shares of our common stock for approximately $278 million under this program. During the nine months ended December 31, 2013 , we did not repurchase any shares of our common stock. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. 54 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non-employee software developers (independent artists or third-party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include, but are not limited to: FIFA (Fdration Internationale de Football Association), FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fuball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League) (professional soccer); Dr. Ing. h.c. F. Porsche AG, Ferrari S.p.A. (Need For Speed and Real Racing games); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); National Football League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football); Zuffa, LLC (Ultimate Fighting Championship); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (certain of Hasbros board game intellectual properties); Disney Interactive (Star Wars); and Fox Digital Entertainment, Inc. (The Simpsons). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations as of December 31, 2013 , and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2014 (Remaining Total three mos.) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Thereafter Unrecognized commitments Developer/licensor commitments $ 1,147 $ 6 $ 174 $ 273 $ 102 $ 93 $ 62 $ 437 Marketing commitments 180 5 35 35 20 20 21 44 Operating leases 157 12 46 37 22 17 13 10 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 interest (a) 14 2 5 5 2 Other purchase obligations 25 11 11 3 Total unrecognized commitments 1,523 36 271 353 146 130 96 491 Recognized commitments 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 principal (a) 633 633 Licensing and lease obligations (b) 61 1 13 12 33 1 1 Total recognized commitments 694 1 13 12 666 1 1 Total commitments $ 2,217 $ 37 $ 284 $ 365 $ 812 $ 131 $ 97 $ 491 (a) Included in the $14 million coupon interest on the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 is $2 million of accrued interest recognized as of December 31, 2013 . We will be obligated to pay the $632.5 million principal amount of the 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 in cash and any excess conversion value in shares of our common stock upon redemption of the Notes at maturity on July 15, 2016 or upon earlier redemption. The $632.5 million principal amount excludes $58 million of unamortized discount of the liability component. See Note 12 for additional information regarding our 0.75% Convertible Senior Notes due 2016 . (b) See Note 8 for additional information regarding recognized commitments resulting from our restructuring plans. Lease commitments have not been reduced for approximately $6 million due in the future from third parties under non-cancelable sub-leases. 55 Table of Contents The unrecognized amounts represented in the table above reflect our minimum cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be recognized and expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the amounts in the table above are presented based on the dates the amounts are contractually due as of December 31, 2013 ; however, certain payment obligations may be accelerated depending on the performance of our operating results. In addition to what is included in the table above, as of December 31, 2013 , we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $265 million , of which we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. Subsequent to December 31, 2013, we entered into various licensor, sponsorship and development agreements with third parties, which contingently commits us to pay an additional approximately $100 million at various dates through fiscal year 2019. Also, in addition to what is included in the table above as of December 31, 2013 , in connection with our KlickNation and Chillingo acquisitions, we may be required to pay an additional $10 million of cash consideration based upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through March 31, 2015 . As of December 31, 2013 , we have accrued $2 million of contingent consideration on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet representing the estimated fair value of the contingent consideration. OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments As of December 31, 2013 , we leased certain facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. 56 Table of Contents