Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we have practices in place with our customers (such as stock balancing and price protection) that reduce product returns. We typically ship orders immediately upon receipt. To the extent that any backlog may or may not exist at the end of a reporting period, it would be an unreliable indicator of future results of any period. In many instances, we are able to acquire materials on a volume-discount basis. We have multiple potential sources of supply for most materials, except for the disk or cartridge component of our PLAYSTATION 3, PlayStation 2, PSP, Wii and Nintendo DS products. Seasonality Our business is highly seasonal. We have historically experienced our highest sales volume in the holiday season quarter ending in December and a seasonal low in sales volume in the quarter ending in June. While our sales generally follow this seasonal trend, there can be no assurance that this trend will continue. In addition, we defer the recognition of a significant amount of net revenue related to our online-enabled packaged goods and digital content over an extended period of time (generally six months). As a result, the quarter in which we generate the highest sales volume may be different than the quarter in which we recognize the highest amount of net revenue. Our results can also vary based on a number of factors, including title release dates, consumer demand for our products, shipment schedules and our revenue recognition policies. Employees As of March 31, 2010, we had approximately 7,800 regular, full-time employees, over 4,600 of whom were outside the United States. We believe that our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is a critical factor in the successful development of our products and that our future success will depend, in large measure, on our ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees. Approximately 3 percent of our employees, all of whom work for DICE, our Swedish development studio, are represented by a union. 11 Table of Contents Executive Officers The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of May 28, 2010: Name Age Position John S. Riccitiello 50 Chief Executive Officer John Schappert 39 Chief Operating Officer Eric F. Brown 44 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Frank D. Gibeau 41 President, EA Games Label Peter R. Moore 55 President, EA SPORTS Label Rodney Humble 44 Executive Vice President, EA Play Label Nancy Smith 57 Executive Vice President, Global Publishing Joel Linzner 58 Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs Gabrielle Toledano 43 Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities Kenneth A. Barker 43 Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer Stephen G. Ben 46 Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary Mr. Riccitiello has served as Chief Executive Officer and a Director of Electronic Arts since April 2007. Prior to re-joining Electronic Arts, he was a co-founder and Managing Partner at Elevation Partners, a private equity fund. From October 1997 to April 2004, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Electronic Arts. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Riccitiello served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the worldwide bakery division at Sara Lee Corporation. Before joining Sara Lee, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Wilson Sporting Goods Co. and has also held executive management positions at Haagen-Dazs, PepsiCo, Inc. and The Clorox Company. Mr. Riccitiello holds a B.S. degree from the University of California, Berkeley. Mr. Riccitiello served as a director of Hyperion Solutions Corporation from July 2002 to April 2007. He serves on the Board of Directors of the UC Berkeley Haas School of Business and on the Board of Councilors of the USC School of Cinematic Arts. Mr. Schappert has served as Chief Operating Officer of Electronic Arts since July 2009. Prior to re-joining Electronic Arts, he served as Corporate Vice President of Microsoft Interactive Entertainment Business, responsible for their Xbox LIVE and Microsoft Game Studios businesses. From November 2006 to July 2007, Mr. Schappert served as Senior Vice President, Chief Operating Officer, Worldwide Studios of Electronic Arts. Prior to this, Mr. Schappert served as Senior Vice President, Group General Manager, Worldwide Studios of EA from January 2003 to October 2006, Vice President, General Manager of EA Canada from July 2002 to January 2003, and Vice President, General Manager of EA Tiburon from April 1998 to July 2002. Mr. Schappert founded Tiburon Entertainment in 1994, which was acquired by Electronic Arts in 1998. Mr. Brown has served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since April 2008. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, he served as Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of McAfee, Inc., a security technology company from March 2006 until March 2008. From January 2005 until March 2006, Mr. Brown was McAfees Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Brown served as President and Chief Financial Officer of MicroStrategy Incorporated, a business intelligence software provider, from 2000 until 2004. Mr. Brown received an M.B.A. from the Sloan School of Management of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a B.S. in Chemistry from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Mr. Gibeau was named President, EA Games Label in June 2007. Prior to that time, he had served as Executive Vice President, General Manager, North America Publishing beginning in September 2005. From 2002 until September 2005, he was Senior Vice President of North American Marketing. Mr. Gibeau has held various publishing positions since joining the company in 1991. Mr. Gibeau holds a B.S. degree from the University of Southern California and an M.B.A. from Santa Clara University. 12 Table of Contents Mr. Moore was named President, EA SPORTS, in September 2007. From January 2003 until he joined Electronic Arts, Mr. Moore was with Microsoft where he served as head of Xbox marketing and was later named as Corporate Vice President, Interactive Entertainment Business, Entertainment and Devices Division, a position in which he led both the Xbox and Games for Windows businesses. Prior to joining Microsoft, Mr. Moore was President and Chief Operating Officer of SEGA of America, where he was responsible for overseeing SEGAs video game business in North America. Before joining SEGA, Mr. Moore was Senior Vice President of Marketing at Reebok International Ltd. Mr. Moore holds a bachelors degree from Keele University, United Kingdom, and a Masters degree from California State University, Long Beach. Mr. Humble was named Executive Vice President, EA Play Label in November 2008. Mr. Humble joined Electronic Arts in October 2004, where he served as Executive Producer of The Sims studio before becoming Vice President in February 2006. Mr. Humble was promoted to Senior Vice President of The Sims studio in August 2007 and Executive Vice President of The Sims studio in September 2008. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Humble was the Vice President of Product Development at Sony Online Entertainment from 2000 to 2004. From 1997 to 2000, he served as Chief Executive Officer of Harmless Games, an independent games company that he co-owned. From 1995 to 1997, Mr. Humble served as Executive Producer at Virgin Interactive and from 1990 to 1995 he served as Executive Producer at Gametek. Ms. Smith was named Executive Vice President, Global Publishing in February 2010. From November 2008 until February 2010, Ms. Smith served Electronic Arts in a variety of capacities. From September 2005 until November 2008, she led The Sims Label, first as Executive Vice President and General Manager of The Sims Franchise, and then as President of The Sims Label. From March 1998 until September 2005, she served as Executive Vice President and General Manager, North American Publishing. From October 1996 to March 1998, Ms. Smith served as Executive Vice President, North American Sales. She held the position of Senior Vice President, North American Sales and Distribution from July 1993 to October 1996 and Vice President Sales from 1988 to 1993. From 1984 to 1988, Ms. Smith served as Western Regional Sales Manager and National Sales Manager. Ms. Smith holds a B.S. degree in management and organizational behavior from the University of San Francisco. Mr. Linzner has served as Executive Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs since March 2005. From April 2004 to March 2005, he served as Senior Vice President, Business and Legal Affairs. From October 2002 to April 2004, Mr. Linzner held the position of Senior Vice President of Worldwide Business Affairs and from July 1999 to October 2002, he held the position of Vice President of Worldwide Business Affairs. Prior to joining Electronic Arts in July 1999, Mr. Linzner served as outside litigation counsel to Electronic Arts and several other companies in the video game industry. Mr. Linzner earned his J.D. from Boalt Hall at the University of California, Berkeley, after graduating from Brandeis University. He is a member of the Bar of the State of California and is admitted to practice in the United States Supreme Court, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and several United States District Courts. Ms. Toledano has served as Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities since April 2007. From February 2006 to April 2007, Ms. Toledano held the position of Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Facilities. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Ms. Toledano worked at Siebel Systems, Inc. from July 2002 to February 2006 where she held a number of positions, including Senior Vice President of Human Resources. From September 2000 to June 2002, she served as Senior Director of Human Resources for Microsoft Corporation, and from September 1998 until September 2000, she served as Director of Human Resources and Recruiting for Microsoft. Ms. Toledano earned both her undergraduate degree in Humanities and her graduate degree in Education from Stanford University. Ms Toledano also serves on the Board of Directors of the Society of HR Management. Mr. Barker has served as Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer since April 2006. From June 2003 to April 2006, Mr. Barker held the position of Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Electronic Arts, Mr. Barker was employed at Sun Microsystems, Inc., as Vice President and Corporate Controller from October 2002 to June 2003 and Assistant Corporate Controller from April 2000 to September 2002. Prior to that, he was an audit partner at Deloitte. Mr. Barker graduated from the University of Notre Dame with a B.A. degree in Accounting. 13 Table of Contents Mr. Ben has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary since October 2004. From April 2004 to October 2004, Mr. Ben held the position of Vice President, Acting General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, and from June 2003 to April 2004, he held the position of Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Prior to June 2003, Mr. Ben had served as internal legal counsel since joining EA in March 1995. Mr. Ben earned his J.D. from Stanford Law School, and received his B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rice University. Mr. Ben is a member of the Bar of the State of California. Investor Information Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports filed pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations section of our website at http://investor.ea.com as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. Except as expressly set forth in this Form 10-K annual report, the contents of our website are not incorporated into, or otherwise to be regarded as part of this report. 14 Table of Contents Item 1A: Risk Factors Our business is subject to many risks and uncertainties, which may affect our future financial performance. If any of the events or circumstances described below occurs, our business and financial performance could be harmed, our actual results could differ materially from our expectations and the market value of our stock could decline. The risks and uncertainties discussed below are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material that may harm our business and financial performance. Our business is highly dependent on the success and availability of video game hardware systems manufactured by third parties, as well as our ability to develop commercially successful products for these systems. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game hardware systems (which we also refer to as platforms) manufactured by third parties, such as Sonys PLAYSTATION 3, Microsofts Xbox 360 and Nintendos Wii. The success of our business is driven in large part by the commercial success and adequate supply of these video game hardware systems, our ability to accurately predict which systems will be successful in the marketplace, and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these systems. We must make product development decisions and commit significant resources well in advance of anticipated product ship dates. A platform for which we are developing products may not succeed or may have a shorter life cycle than anticipated. If consumer demand for the systems for which we are developing products is lower than our expectations, our revenue will suffer, we may be unable to fully recover the investments we have made in developing our products, and our financial performance will be harmed. Alternatively, a system for which we have not devoted significant resources could be more successful than we had initially anticipated, causing us to miss out on meaningful revenue opportunities. If we do not consistently meet our product development schedules, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our business is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring in the December quarter. In addition, we seek to release many of our products in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie or the beginning of a sports season or major sporting event. If we miss these key selling periods for any reason, including product delays or delayed introduction of a new platform for which we have developed products, our sales will suffer disproportionately. Likewise, if a key event to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also suffer disproportionately. Our ability to meet product development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the coordination of large and sometimes geographically dispersed development teams required by the increasing complexity of our products and the platforms for which they are developed, and the need to fine-tune our products prior to their release. We have experienced development delays for our products in the past, which caused us to push back release dates. In the future, any failure to meet anticipated production or release schedules would likely result in a delay of revenue and/or possibly a significant shortfall in our revenue, increase our development expense, harm our profitability, and cause our operating results to be materially different than anticipated. Our business is intensely competitive and hit driven. If we do not deliver hit products and services or if consumers prefer our competitors products or services over our own, our operating results could suffer. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect new competitors to continue to emerge in the United States and abroad. While many new products and services are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of hit titles accounts for a significant portion of total revenue in our industry. We find that driving hit titles often requires large marketing budgets and media spend. We may not recover the investments that we make in marketing and advertising on certain products and that could harm our profitability. Hit products or services offered by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause revenue generated from our products and services to fall below expectations. If our competitors develop and market more successful products or services, offer competitive products or services at lower price points or based 15 Table of Contents on payment models perceived as offering a better value proposition (such as pay-for-play or subscription-based models), or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well-received products and services, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. Our adoption of new business models could fail to produce our desired financial returns We are actively seeking to monetize the game properties that we publish through a variety of new platforms and business models, including online distribution, micro-transactions, and subscription services. Forecasting our revenues and profitability for these new business models is inherently uncertain and volatile. Our actual revenues and profits for these businesses may be significantly greater or less than our forecasts. Additionally, these new business models could fail for one or more of our titles, resulting in the loss of our investment in the development and infrastructure needed to support these new business models, and the opportunity cost of diverting management and financial resources away from more successful businesses. If our marketing and advertising efforts fail to resonate with our customers, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our products are marketed worldwide through a diverse spectrum of advertising and promotional programs such as television and online advertising, print advertising, retail merchandising, website development and event sponsorship. Our ability to sell our products and services is dependent in part upon the success of these programs. If the marketing for our products and services fail to resonate with our customers, particularly during the critical holiday season or during other key selling periods, or if advertising rates or other media placement costs increase, these factors could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could have a material adverse impact on our business and operating results. As a result of the national and global economic downturn, overall consumer spending has declined and retailers globally have taken a more conservative stance in ordering game inventory. The decrease in discretionary consumer spending contributed to the decline in the demand for our products during the 2009 holiday selling season. Continued economic distress, which may result in a further decrease in demand for our products, particularly during key product launch windows, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty and adverse changes in the economy could also increase the risk of material losses on our investments, increase costs associated with developing and publishing our products, increase the cost and decrease the availability of sources of financing, and increase our exposure to material losses from bad debts, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. If we experience further deterioration in our market capitalization or our financial performance, we could be required to recognize significant impairment charges in future periods. Our business is subject to currency fluctuations. International sales are a fundamental part of our business. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, international net revenue comprised 45 percent of our total net revenue. We expect international sales to continue to account for a significant portion of our total net revenue. Such sales may be subject to unexpected regulatory requirements, tariffs and other barriers. Additionally, foreign sales are primarily made in local currencies, which may fluctuate against the U.S. dollar. In addition, our foreign investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to currency fluctuations. We use foreign currency forward contracts to mitigate some foreign currency risk associated with foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities (primarily certain intercompany receivables and payables) to a limited extent and foreign currency option contracts to hedge foreign currency forecasted transactions (primarily related to a portion of the revenue and expenses denominated in foreign currency generated by our operational subsidiaries). However, these activities are limited in the protection they provide us from foreign currency fluctuations and can themselves result in losses. The disruption in the global financial markets has also impacted many of the financial institutions with which we do business. A sustained decline in the financial stability of financial institutions as a result of the disruption in the financial markets could negatively impact our treasury operations, including our ability to 16 Table of Contents secure credit-worthy counterparties for our foreign currency hedging programs. Accordingly, our results of operations, including our reported net revenue, operating expenses and net income, and financial condition can be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations, especially the Euro, British pound sterling and Canadian dollar. Volatility in the capital markets may adversely impact the value of our investments and could cause us to recognize significant impairment charges in our operating results. Our portfolio of short-term investments and marketable equity securities is subject to volatility in the capital markets and to national and international economic conditions. In particular, our international investments can be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency and our short-term investments are susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. These investments are also impacted by declines in value attributable to the credit-worthiness of the issuer. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments or marketable equity securities to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, strategic investments or business acquisitions, or for other purposes. If we were to liquidate these short-term investments at a time when they were worth less than what we had originally purchased them for, or if the obligor were unable to pay the full amount at maturity, we could incur a significant loss. Similarly, we hold marketable equity securities, which have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by price and trading volume volatility in the public stock markets. We could be required to recognize impairment charges on the securities held by us and/or we may realize losses on the sale of these securities, all of which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, we recognized impairment charges of $26 million on our investment in The9. The majority of our sales are made to a relatively small number of key customers. If these customers reduce their purchases of our products or become unable to pay for them, our business could be harmed. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, approximately 75 percent of our North American sales were made to our top ten customers. In Europe, our top ten customers accounted for approximately 48 percent of our sales in that territory during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. Worldwide, we had direct sales to two customers, GameStop Corp. and Wal-Mart Stores Inc., which represented approximately 16 percent and 12 percent, respectively, of total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. As a result of the economic downturn, retailers globally continue to take a more conservative stance in ordering game inventory. Though our products are available to consumers through a variety of retailers, the concentration of our sales in one, or a few, large customers could lead to a short-term disruption in our sales if one or more of these customers significantly reduced their purchases or ceased to carry our products, and could make us more vulnerable to collection risk if one or more of these large customers became unable to pay for our products or declared bankruptcy. Additionally, our receivables from these large customers increase significantly in the December quarter as they make purchases in anticipation of the holiday selling season. Also, having such a large portion of our total net revenue concentrated in a few customers could reduce our negotiating leverage with these customers. If one or more of our key customers experience deterioration in their business, or become unable to obtain sufficient financing to maintain their operations, our business could be harmed. Sales of used video game products could lower our sales of new video games. Certain of our retail customers sell used video games. Used video game sales have been growing in North America, and are emerging in Europe. Used video games are generally priced lower than new video games and the margins on used games sales are generally greater for retailers than the margins on new game sales. We do not receive revenue from used video game sales. Sales of used video games may negatively impact our sales and profitability, and may continue to do so, to a greater or lesser extent, in the future. Our industry is cyclical, driven by the periodic introduction of new video game hardware systems. As we continue to move through the current cycle, our industry growth may slow down and as a result, our operating results may be difficult to predict. Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with Microsofts launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, 17 Table of Contents and continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched their next-generation systems, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively. Sales of software designed for these hardware systems represent the majority of our revenue, so our growth and success is highly correlated to sales of video game hardware systems. While there are indications that this current cycle may be extended longer than prior cycles in part, due to the growth of online services and content, the greater graphic and processing power of the current generation hardware, and the introduction of new peripherals growth in the installed base of the current generation of video game systems is likely to slow down in the coming years. This slow-down in sales of video game players may cause a corresponding slow-down in the growth of sales of video game software, which could significantly affect our operating results. Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to anticipate or successfully implement new technologies in our games, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer. Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive in the market. Therefore, we usually start our product development with a range of technical development goals that we hope to be able to achieve. We may not be able to achieve these goals, or our competition may be able to achieve them more quickly and effectively than we can. In either case, our products and services may be technologically inferior to our competitors, less appealing to consumers, or both. If we cannot achieve our technology goals within the original development schedule of our products and services, then we may delay their release until these technology goals can be achieved, which may delay or reduce revenue and increase our development expenses. Alternatively, we may increase the resources employed in research and development in an attempt to accelerate our development of new technologies, either to preserve our product or service launch schedule or to keep up with our competition, which would increase our development expenses. The video game hardware manufacturers are among our chief competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of and/or access to our video game products. If they do not approve our products, we will be unable to ship to our customers. Our agreements with hardware licensors (such as Sony for the PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft for the Xbox 360, and Nintendo for the Wii) typically give significant control to the licensor over the approval and manufacturing of our products, which could, in certain circumstances, leave us unable to get our products approved, manufactured and shipped to customers. These hardware licensors are also among our chief competitors. Generally, control of the approval and manufacturing process by the hardware licensors increases both our manufacturing lead times and costs as compared to those we can achieve independently. While we believe that our relationships with our hardware licensors are currently good, the potential for these licensors to delay or refuse to approve or manufacture our products exists. Such occurrences would harm our business and our financial performance. We also require compatibility code and the consent of Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo in order to include online capabilities in our products for their respective platforms and to digitally distribute our products through their proprietary networks. As online capabilities for video game systems become more significant, Sony, Microsoft and Nintendo could restrict the manner in which we provide online capabilities for our products. They may also restrict the number of products that we may distribute digitally on their networks. If Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo refuse to approve our products with online capabilities, restrict our digital download offerings on their proprietary networks, or significantly impact the financial terms on which these services are offered to our customers, our business could be harmed. The video game hardware manufacturers set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. If one or more of these manufacturers change their fee structure, our profitability will be materially impacted. In order to publish products for a video game system such as the Xbox 360, PLAYSTATION 3 or Wii, we must take a license from Microsoft, Sony and Nintendo, respectively, which gives these companies the opportunity to 18 Table of Contents set the fee structure that we must pay in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly, these companies have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures, or adopt different fee structures for online purchases of games, online gameplay and other new features for their consoles. The control that hardware manufacturers have over the fee structures for their platforms and online access could adversely impact our costs, profitability and margins. Because publishing products for video game systems is the largest portion of our business, any increase in fee structures would significantly harm our ability to generate profits. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to include intellectual property owned by others in our games, or to maintain or acquire the rights to publish or distribute games developed by others, we will sell fewer hit titles and our revenue, profitability and cash flows will decline. Competition for these licenses may make them more expensive and reduce our profitability. Many of our products are based on or incorporate intellectual property owned by others. For example, our EA SPORTS products include rights licensed from major sports leagues and players associations. Similarly, many of our other hit franchises, such as Harry Potter, are based on key film and literary licenses and our Hasbro products are based on a license for these key toy and game properties. In addition, some of our most successful products in fiscal years 2009 and 2010, the Rock Band and Left 4 Dead series, were products for which we have distribution rights. Competition for these licenses and rights is intense. If we are unable to maintain these licenses and rights or obtain additional licenses or rights with significant commercial value, our revenues, profitability and cash flows will decline significantly. Competition for these licenses may also drive up the advances, guarantees and royalties that we must pay to licensors and developers, which could significantly increase our costs and reduce our profitability. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, any of which could significantly harm our operating results. Our business is subject to risks that are generally associated with the entertainment industry, many of which are beyond our control. These risks could negatively impact our operating results and include: the popularity, price and timing of our games and the platforms on which they are played; economic conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot necessarily be predicted. If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business. The market for technical, creative, marketing and other personnel essential to the development and marketing of our products and management of our businesses is extremely competitive. Our leading position within the interactive entertainment industry makes us a prime target for recruiting of executives and key creative talent. If we cannot successfully recruit and retain the employees we need, or replace key employees following their departure, our ability to develop and manage our business will be impaired. Acquisitions, investments and other strategic transactions could result in operating difficulties, dilution to our investors and other negative consequences. We have engaged in, evaluated, and expect to continue to engage in and evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including (1) acquisitions of companies, businesses, intellectual properties, and other assets, (2) minority investments in strategic partners, and (3) investments in new interactive entertainment businesses (for example, online and mobile games). Any of these strategic transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Although we regularly search for opportunities to engage in strategic transactions, we may not be successful in identifying suitable opportunities. We may not be able to consummate potential acquisitions or investments or an acquisition or investment we do consummate may not enhance our business or may decrease rather than increase our earnings. The process of acquiring and integrating a company or business, or successfully exploiting acquired intellectual property or other assets, could divert a 19 Table of Contents significant amount of resources, as well as our managements time and focus and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, particularly for a large acquisition. Additional risks and variations of the foregoing risks we face include: The need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company in an acquired company that, prior to the acquisition, lacked these controls, procedures and policies, Cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company or business into our organization, Retaining key employees and maintaining the key business and customer relationships of the businesses we acquire, The need to integrate an acquired companys accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management and timely reporting, The possibility that we will not discover important facts during due diligence that could have a material adverse impact on the value of the businesses we acquire, Potential impairment charges incurred to write down the carrying amount of intangible assets generated as a result of an acquisition, Litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risks as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties, Significant accounting charges resulting from the completion and integration of a sizeable acquisition and increased capital expenditures, Significant acquisition-related accounting adjustments, particularly relating to an acquired companys deferred revenue, that may cause reported revenue and profits of the combined company to be lower than the sum of their stand-alone revenue and profits, The possibility that the combined company would not achieve the expected benefits, including any anticipated operating and product synergies, of the acquisition as quickly as anticipated, The possibility that the costs of, or operational difficulties arising from, an acquisition would be greater than anticipated, To the extent that we engage in strategic transactions outside of the United States, we face additional risks, including risks related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries, and The possibility that a change of control of a company we acquire triggers a termination of contractual or intellectual property rights important to the operation of its business. Future acquisitions and investments could also involve the issuance of our equity and equity-linked securities (potentially diluting our existing stockholders), the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, write-offs of goodwill, intangibles, or acquired in-process technology, or other increased cash and non-cash expenses, such as stock-based compensation. Any of the foregoing factors could harm our financial condition or prevent us from achieving improvements in our financial condition and operating performance that could have otherwise been achieved by us on a stand-alone basis. Our stockholders may not have the opportunity to review, vote on or evaluate future acquisitions or investments. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. From time to time, third parties may assert claims against us relating to patents, copyrights, trademarks, personal publicity rights, or other intellectual property rights to technologies, products or delivery/payment methods that are important to our business. Although we believe that we make reasonable efforts to ensure that our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third parties still may claim 20 Table of Contents infringement. For example, we may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. In addition, many of our products are highly realistic and feature materials that are based on real world examples, which may be the subject of intellectual property infringement claims of others. From time to time, we receive communications from third parties regarding such claims. Existing or future infringement claims against us, whether valid or not, may be time consuming and expensive to defend. Such claims or litigations could require us to pay damages and other costs, stop selling the affected products, redesign those products to avoid infringement, or obtain a license, all of which could be costly and harm our business. In addition, many patents have been issued that may apply to potential new modes of delivering, playing or monetizing game software products and services, such as those that we produce or would like to offer in the future. We may discover that future opportunities to provide new and innovative modes of game play and game delivery to consumers may be precluded by existing patents that we are unable to license on reasonable terms. From time to time we may become involved in other legal proceedings, which could adversely affect us. We are currently, and from time to time in the future may become, subject to legal proceedings, claims, litigation and government investigations or inquiries, which could be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations. In addition, the outcome of any legal proceedings, claims, litigation, investigations or inquiries may be difficult to predict and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Our business is subject to increasing regulation and the adoption of proposed legislation we oppose could negatively impact our business. Legislation is continually being introduced in the United States at the local, state and federal levels for the establishment of government mandated rating requirements or restrictions on distribution of entertainment software based on content. To date, most courts that have ruled on such legislation have ruled in a manner favorable to the interactive entertainment industry. Other countries have adopted or are considering laws regulating or mandating ratings requirements on entertainment software content and certain foreign countries already allow government censorship of entertainment software products. Adoption of government ratings system or restrictions on distribution of entertainment software based on content could harm our business by limiting the products we are able to offer to our customers and compliance with new and possibly inconsistent regulations for different territories could be costly or delay the release of our products. As we increase the online delivery of our products and services, we are subject to a number of foreign and domestic laws and regulations that affect companies conducting business on the Internet. In addition, laws and regulations relating to user privacy, data collection and retention, content, advertising and information security have been adopted or are being considered for adoption by many countries throughout the world. The costs of compliance with these laws may increase in the future as a result of changes in interpretation. Furthermore, any failure on our part to comply with these laws or the application of these laws in an unanticipated manner, may harm our business. Our products are subject to the threat of piracy and unauthorized copying. Entertainment software piracy is a persistent problem in our industry. The growth in peer-to-peer networks and other channels to download pirated copies of our products, the increasing availability of broadband access to the internet and the proliferation of technology designed to circumvent the protection measures used with our products all have contributed to an expansion in piracy. Though we take technical steps to make the unauthorized copying of our products more difficult, as do the manufacturers of consoles on which our games are played, these efforts may not be successful in controlling the piracy of our products. While legal protections exist to combat piracy, preventing and curbing infringement through enforcement of our intellectual property rights may be difficult, costly and time consuming, particularly in countries where laws are less protective of intellectual property rights. Further, the scope of the legal protection of copyright and 21 Table of Contents prohibitions against the circumvention of technological protection measures to protect copyrighted works are often under scrutiny by courts and governing bodies. The repeal or weakening of laws intended to combat piracy, protect intellectual property and prohibit the circumvention of technological protection measures could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect against piracy. These factors could have a negative effect on our growth and profitability in the future. If one or more of our titles were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, our business could suffer. Throughout the history of our industry, many video games have been designed to include certain hidden content and gameplay features that are accessible through the use of in-game cheat codes or other technological means that are intended to enhance the gameplay experience. However, in several cases, hidden content or features have been found to be included in other publishers products by an employee who was not authorized to do so or by an outside developer without the knowledge of the publisher. From time to time, some hidden content and features have contained profanity, graphic violence and sexually explicit or otherwise objectionable material. In a few cases, the Entertainment Software Ratings Board (ESRB) has reacted to discoveries of hidden content and features by reviewing the rating that was originally assigned to the product, requiring the publisher to change the game packaging and/or fining the publisher. Retailers have on occasion reacted to the discovery of such hidden content by removing these games from their shelves, refusing to sell them, and demanding that their publishers accept them as product returns. Likewise, consumers have reacted to the revelation of hidden content by refusing to purchase such games, demanding refunds for games they have already purchased, and refraining from buying other games published by the company whose game contained the objectionable material. We have implemented preventative measures designed to reduce the possibility of hidden, objectionable content from appearing in the video games we publish. Nonetheless, these preventative measures are subject to human error, circumvention, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. In addition, to the extent we acquire a company without similar controls in place, the possibility of hidden, objectionable content appearing in video games developed by that company but for which we are ultimately responsible could increase. If a video game we published were found to contain hidden, objectionable content, the ESRB could demand that we recall a game and change its packaging to reflect a revised rating, retailers could refuse to sell it and demand we accept the return of any unsold copies or returns from customers, and consumers could refuse to buy it or demand that we refund their money. This could have a material negative impact on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, our reputation could be harmed, which could impact sales of other video games we sell. If any of these consequences were to occur, our business and financial performance could be significantly harmed. If we ship defective products, our operating results could suffer. Products such as ours are extremely complex software programs, and are difficult to develop, manufacture and distribute. We have quality controls in place to detect defects in the software, media and packaging of our products before they are released. Nonetheless, these quality controls are subject to human error, overriding, and reasonable resource constraints. Therefore, these quality controls and preventative measures may not be effective in detecting defects in our products before they have been reproduced and released into the marketplace. In such an event, we could be required to recall a product, or we may find it necessary to voluntarily recall a product, and/or scrap defective inventory, which could significantly harm our business and operating results. Breaches of our security measures and unintended disclosures of our intellectual property or our customer data could adversely affect our business. We take measures to prevent our source code and other confidential information from unauthorized access. A security breach that results in the disclosure of our source code, other confidential assets, or pre-release software could lead to piracy of our software or otherwise compromise our product plans. When we conduct business online directly with consumers, we may be the victim of fraudulent transactions, including credit card fraud, which presents a risk to our revenues and potentially disrupts service to our customers. As we increase our online businesses, we are also collecting and storing an increasing amount of customer data, some of it personally identifiable information including credit card data. It is possible that our security controls over customer data 22 Table of Contents may not prevent the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information. A security breach that leads to disclosure of customer account information (including personally identifiable information) could harm our reputation and subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased costs or loss of revenue. A resulting perception that our products or services do not adequately protect the privacy of personal information could result in a loss of current or potential customers for our online offerings that require the collection of customer data. We may experience outages and disruptions of our online services if we fail to maintain adequate operational services and supporting infrastructure. As we increase our online products and services, we expect to continue to invest in technology services, hardware and software, including data centers, network services, storage and database technologies, to support existing services and to introduce new products and services including websites, ecommerce capabilities, online game communities and online game play services. Creating the appropriate support for online business initiatives is expensive and complex, and could result in inefficiencies or operational failures, and increased vulnerability to cyber attacks, which could diminish the quality of our products, services, and user experience. Such failures could result in damage to our reputation and loss of current and potential users, subscribers, and advertisers which could harm our business. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes, and, in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also required to estimate what our tax obligations will be in the future. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the estimation process and applicable laws are inherently uncertain, and our estimates are not binding on tax authorities. The tax laws treatment of software and internet-based transactions is particularly uncertain and in some cases currently applicable tax laws are ill-suited to address these kinds of transactions. Apart from an adverse resolution of these uncertainties, our effective tax rate also could be adversely affected by our profit level, by changes in our business or changes in our structure resulting from the reorganization of our business and operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the elections we make, changes in applicable tax laws (in the United States or foreign jurisdictions), or changes in the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets, as well as other factors. In fiscal years 2009 and 2010, we recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. We expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. Further, our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Should our ultimate tax liability exceed our estimates, our income tax provision and net income or loss could be materially affected. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our consolidated pre-tax income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. We are also required to pay taxes other than income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions. We are regularly under examination by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations, changes in our business or changes in applicable tax rules will not have an adverse effect on our earnings and financial condition. Furthermore, as we expand our international operations, adopt new products and new distribution models, implement changes to our operating structure or undertake intercompany transactions in light of changing tax 23 Table of Contents laws, expiring rulings, acquisitions and our current and anticipated business and operational requirements, our tax expense could increase. Our reported financial results could be adversely affected by changes in financial accounting standards or by the application of existing or future accounting standards to our business as it evolves. Our reported financial results are impacted by the accounting policies promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and national accounting standards bodies and the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. Policies affecting software revenue recognition have and could further significantly affect the way we account for revenue related to our products and services. We recognize all of the revenue from bundled sales ( i.e. , packaged goods video games that include an online service component) on a deferred basis over an estimated online service period, which we generally estimate to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. As we increase our downloadable content and add new features to our online service, our estimate of the online service period may change and we could be required to recognize revenue over a longer period of time. We expect that a significant portion of our games will be online-enabled in the future and we could be required to recognize the related revenue over an extended period of time rather than at the time of sale. In addition, our adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 805, Business Combinations , has had a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for material acquisitions consummated after March 28, 2009. As we enhance, expand and diversify our business and product offerings, the application of existing or future financial accounting standards, particularly those relating to the way we account for revenue and taxes, could have a significant adverse effect on our reported results although not necessarily on our cash flows. We rely on business partners in many areas of our business and our business may be harmed if they are unable to honor their obligations to us. We rely on various business partners, including third-party service providers, vendors, licensing partners, development partners, and licensees, among others, in many areas of our business. In many cases, these third parties are given access to sensitive and proprietary information in order to provide services and support to our teams. These third parties may misappropriate our information and engage in unauthorized use of it. The failure of these third parties to provide adequate services and technologies, or the failure of the third parties to adequately maintain or update their services and technologies, could result in a disruption to our business operations. Further, the disruption in the financial markets and the global economic downturn may adversely affect our business partners and they may not be able to continue honoring their obligations to us. Some of our business partners are highly-leveraged or small businesses that may be particularly vulnerable in the current economic environment. Alternative arrangements and services may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or we may experience business interruptions upon a transition to an alternative partner or vendor. If we lose one or more significant business partners, our business could be harmed. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price of our common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us (including those discussed in the risk factors above, as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material), to changes in securities analysts earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts and investors expectations, to factors affecting the entertainment, computer, software, Internet, media or electronics industries, to our ability to successfully integrate any acquisitions we may make, or to national or international economic conditions. In particular, economic downturns may contribute to the public stock markets experiencing extreme price and trading volume volatility. These broad market fluctuations have and could continue to adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments None. 24 Table of Contents Item 2: Properties The following diagram depicts the locations of our facilities throughout the world: We own our 660,000 square foot Redwood Shores headquarters facilities located in Redwood City, California which includes a product development studio and administrative and sales functions. We also own a 418,000-square-foot product development studio facility in Burnaby, Canada, and a 122,000-square-foot facility in Chertsey, England, which we no longer occupy. In addition to the properties we own, we lease approximately 1.8 million square feet of facilities, including significant leases for our multi-function facility in Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom, our studios in Los Angeles, California and Orlando, Florida, and our distribution center in Louisville, Kentucky. Our leased space is summarized as follows (in square feet): Purpose North America Europe Asia Total Distribution 250,000 47,652 297,652 Sales and Administrative 71,110 220,264 41,211 332,585 Research and Development 763,970 225,640 166,108 1,155,718 Total Leased Square Footage 1,085,080 493,556 207,319 1,785,955 We do not identify or allocate our assets by operating segment. For information on long-lived assets by geography, see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Guildford, Orlando, and Los Angeles Studios; Louisville Distribution Center In February 2006, we entered into an agreement with an independent third party to lease a facility in Guildford, Surrey, United Kingdom, which commenced in June 2006 and will expire in May 2016. The facility comprises a total of approximately 95,000 square feet, which we use for administrative, sales and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is approximately $23 million over the remaining term of the lease. In June 2004, we entered into a lease agreement with an independent third party for a studio facility in Orlando, Florida, which commenced in January 2005 and, pursuant to lease amendments, will expire in October 2015, with options to renew for two additional five-year terms. The campus facilities currently comprise a total of 140,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation over the remaining term of the lease is $11 million. 25 Table of Contents In July 2003, we entered into a lease agreement with an independent third party (the Landlord) for a studio facility in Los Angeles, California, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013 with two five-year options to extend the lease term. Additionally, we have options to purchase the property after five and ten years based on the fair market value of the property at the date of sale, a right of first offer to purchase the property upon terms offered by the Landlord, and a right to share in the profits from a sale of the property. Existing campus facilities comprise a total of 243,000 square feet and provide space for research and development functions. Our rental obligation under this agreement is $22 million over the remaining term of the lease. This commitment is offset by expected sublease income of $2 million for a sublease to an affiliate of the Landlord of 18,000 square feet of the Los Angeles facility, which commenced in October 2003 and expires in September 2013. Our North American distribution center is supported by a centralized warehouse facility that we lease in Louisville, Kentucky, occupying 250,000 square feet. The lease expires in April 2015, with options to renew for two additional five-year terms. While we continually evaluate our facility requirements, we believe that suitable additional or substitute space will be available as needed to accommodate our future needs. Item 3: Legal Proceedings We are subject to claims and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. We do not believe that any liability from any reasonably foreseeable disposition of such claims and litigation, individually or in the aggregate, would have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Item 4: Reserved 26 Table of Contents PART II Item 5: Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ERTS. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low sales price per share of our common stock from April 1, 2008 through March 31, 2010. Prices High Low Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2009: First Quarter $ 54.81 $ 43.46 Second Quarter 50.17 38.36 Third Quarter 39.56 15.01 Fourth Quarter 20.60 14.24 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2010: First Quarter $ 23.76 $ 17.48 Second Quarter 22.14 17.68 Third Quarter 21.05 15.86 Fourth Quarter 18.99 15.70 Holders There were approximately 1,640 holders of record of our common stock as of May 21, 2010, and the closing price of our common stock was $16.70 per share as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. In addition, we believe that a significant number of beneficial owners of our common stock hold their shares in street name. Dividends We have not paid any cash dividends and do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 27 Table of Contents Stock Performance Graph The following information shall not be deemed to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission nor shall this information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a filing. The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total returns during the period from March 31, 2005 through March 31, 2010, for our common stock, the NASDAQ Composite Index, the S&P 500 Index (to which EA was added in July 2002) and the RDG Technology Composite Index, each of which assumes an initial value of $100. Each measurement point is as of the end of each fiscal year ended March 31. The performance of our stock depicted in the following graph is not necessarily indicative of the future performance of our stock. COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* Among Electronic Arts, Inc., the S&P 500 Index, the NASDAQ Composite Index and the RDG Technology Composite Index * Based on $100 invested on March 31, 2005 in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends. March 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Electronic Arts Inc. $ 100 $ 106 $ 97 $ 96 $ 35 $ 36 S&P 500 100 112 125 119 73 110 NASDAQ Composite 100 120 134 118 85 143 RDG Technology Composite 100 118 122 118 82 131 28 Table of Contents Item 6: Selected Financial Data ELECTRONIC ARTS INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES SELECTED FIVE-YEAR CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA (In millions, except per share data) Year Ended March 31, STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS DATA 2010 2009 2008 2007 (a) 2006 Net revenue $ 3,654 $ 4,212 $ 3,665 $ 3,091 $ 2,951 Cost of goods sold 1,866 2,127 1,805 1,212 1,181 Gross profit 1,788 2,085 1,860 1,879 1,770 Operating expenses: Marketing and sales 730 691 588 466 431 General and administrative 320 332 339 288 215 Research and development 1,229 1,359 1,145 1,041 758 Restructuring charges 140 80 103 15 26 Amortization of intangibles 53 58 34 27 7 Acquisition-related contingent consideration 2 Goodwill impairment 368 Certain abandoned acquisition-related costs 21 Acquired in-process technology 3 138 3 8 Total operating expenses 2,474 2,912 2,347 1,840 1,445 Operating income (loss) (686 ) (827 ) (487 ) 39 325 Losses on strategic investments, net (26 ) (62 ) (118 ) Interest and other income, net 6 34 98 99 64 Income (loss) before provision for (benefit from) income taxes and minority interest (706 ) (855 ) (507 ) 138 389 Provision for (benefit from) income taxes (29 ) 233 (53 ) 66 147 Income (loss) before minority interest (677 ) (1,088 ) (454 ) 72 242 Minority interest 4 (6 ) Net income (loss) $ (677 ) $ (1,088 ) $ (454 ) $ 76 $ 236 Net income (loss) per share: Basic $ (2.08 ) $ (3.40 ) $ (1.45 ) $ 0.25 $ 0.78 Diluted $ (2.08 ) $ (3.40 ) $ (1.45 ) $ 0.24 $ 0.75 Number of shares used in computation: Basic 325 320 314 308 304 Diluted 325 320 314 317 314 BALANCE SHEET DATA Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,273 $ 1,621 $ 1,553 $ 1,371 $ 1,242 Short-term investments 432 534 734 1,264 1,030 Marketable equity securities 291 365 729 341 160 Working capital 1,011 1,984 2,626 2,571 2,143 Total assets 4,646 4,678 6,059 5,146 4,386 Long-term liabilities 343 408 421 88 97 Total liabilities 1,917 1,544 1,720 1,114 966 Minority interest 12 Total stockholders equity 2,729 3,134 4,339 4,065 3,408 (a) Beginning in fiscal year 2007, we were required to begin expensing stock-based compensation. See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a detailed functional line-item breakdown of our stock-based compensation expense. 29 Table of Contents Item 7: Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations OVERVIEW The following overview is a top-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-K, including in the Business section and the Risk Factors above, the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, or the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute video game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, handheld game players (such as the PlayStation Portable (PSP) and the Nintendo DS) and mobile devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone). Some of our games are based on content that we license from others ( e.g. , FIFA Soccer, Madden NFL Football, Harry Potter, and Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties), and some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual property ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed, and Dead Space). Our goal is to publish titles with global mass-market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non-English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports-based products ( e.g. , FIFA Soccer, Madden NFL Football, and NCAA Football), wholly-owned properties that can be successfully sequeled ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed and Battlefield) and titles based on long-lived literary and/or movie properties ( e.g. , Harry Potter). Financial Results Total net revenue for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 was $3,654 million, down $558 million as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. At March 31, 2010, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $505 million as compared to March 31, 2009, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the year ended March 31, 2010. At March 31, 2009, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content decreased by $126 million as compared to March 31, 2008, directly increasing the amount of reported net revenue during the year ended March 31, 2009. Without these changes in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue increased by approximately $73 million during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009. Net revenue for fiscal year 2010 was driven by FIFA 10, Madden NFL 10 and The Sims 3 . Net loss for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 was $677 million as compared to a net loss of $1,088 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Diluted loss per share for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 was $2.08 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $3.40 for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Net loss decreased for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily as a result of (1) the recognition of $368 million of goodwill impairment during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, (2) a $262 million decrease in our income tax provision primarily due to the discrete tax charge to establish the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets in 2009, (3) a $261 million decrease in cost of goods sold, and (4) a $130 million decrease in research and development costs. These decreases were partially offset by (1) a decrease of $558 million in net revenue and (2) a $60 million increase in restructuring charges primarily from our fiscal 2010 restructuring. During fiscal year 2010, we generated $152 million of cash from operating activities as compared to generating $12 million for fiscal year 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to decreases in personnel-related costs and external development and contracted services as part of our cost reduction initiatives, as well as a reduction in incentive-based compensation payments. 30 Table of Contents Trends in Our Business Economic Environment. Overall consumer spending has declined as a result of the national and global economic downturn. Retailers globally continue to take a conservative stance in ordering game inventory. We believe that the continued decline in the packaged goods sector contributed to the lower than anticipated demand for our products during the 2009 holiday selling season. We remain cautious about our future sales in light of the economic environment and the impact it has had on our business. Current Generation Game Consoles. Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with Microsofts launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, and continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched their next-generation systems, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively. Unlike past cycles, we believe this current cycle may be extended, partly due to the growth of online gaming services and content, the greater graphic and processing power of the current-generation hardware and the introduction of new peripherals. However, growth in the installed base of users of the Xbox 360, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii may slow down in light of the economic environment. Consequently, our industry may experience a decline. Wireless Platforms . Advances in wireless technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving platforms for on-the-go interactive entertainment that appeal to a broad consumer base. Our efforts in wireless interactive entertainment are focused in two areas packaged goods games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for mobile devices. We expect sales of games for mobile devices to continue to be an important part of our business worldwide. Catalog Sales . The video game industry is experiencing a change in retail sales patterns which is decreasing revenue from our catalog sales. Currently, many console games experience sales cycles that are shorter than in the past. To mitigate this trend, we offer our consumers a direct-to-consumer service (such as head-to-head play or other multiplayer options) and/or additional content available through our online service to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase. Used Games . Certain of our customers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games and do not result in revenue to the publisher of the games from the sale. We have seen the market for used video games grow. If our customers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse impact on our operating results. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games . We see a larger portion of packaged goods games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, and that those titles are typically sequels of prior games. We have reacted to this trend by significantly reducing the number of games that we produce to provide greater focus on our most promising intellectual properties. Digital Content Distribution and Services . Consumers are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook and MySpace. We provide a variety of online delivered products and services. Many of our games that are available as packaged good products are also available through direct online download through the Internet (from websites we maintain and others that we license). We also offer online delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being used to play games by an ever-broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology, and consumer acceptance of digital distribution, by offering subscription services, online downloads for a one-time fee, and advertising-supported free games and game sites. We expect online delivery of games and game services to be an increasing part of our business going forward. 31 Table of Contents Recent Developments Acquisition of Playfish Limited. On November 9, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Playfish Limited (Playfish) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $308 million in cash and equity. In addition, we may be required to pay additional variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2011. This additional consideration is limited to a maximum of $100 million. Playfish is a developer of free-to-play social games that can be played on social networking platforms. Fiscal 2010 Restructuring Plan. In fiscal year 2010, we announced details of a restructuring plan. This plan includes a narrowing of our product portfolio to provide greater focus on titles with higher margin opportunities. Under this plan, we reduced our workforce by approximately 1,200 employees and have been (1) consolidating or closing various facilities, (2) eliminating certain titles, and (3) incurring IT and other costs to assist in reorganizing certain activities. The majority of these actions were completed by March 31, 2010. Since the inception of this plan through March 31, 2010, we have incurred charges of approximately $116 million. Overall, including charges incurred through March 31, 2010, we expect to incur total cash and non-cash charges between $140 million and $145 million by March 31, 2012. These charges consist primarily of (1) employee-related costs (approximately $65 million), (2) intangible asset impairment costs, abandoned rights to intellectual property costs, and other costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions (approximately $35 million), (3) facilities exit costs (approximately $25 million), and (4) other reorganizational costs including IT and consulting costs (approximately $20 million). Employee Stock Option Exchange Program . On October 21, 2009, we launched a voluntary Employee Stock Option Exchange Program (Exchange Program) to permit our eligible employees to exchange outstanding eligible options for a lesser number of restricted stock units, shares of restricted stock (in Canada only), or new options (in China only) to be granted under our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the Equity Plan). The Exchange Program offer period began on October 21, 2009 and ended on November 18, 2009. Options eligible for the Exchange Program were those options granted prior to October 21, 2008, that had an exercise price per share greater than $28.18, which was the 52-week high trading price of our common stock measured as of the start date of the Exchange Program, as reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and that upon conversion using the exchange ratio applicable for such options resulted in four or more shares of restricted stock units, shares of restricted stock or new options, as the case may be. The Exchange Program resulted in options to purchase approximately 16,561,000 shares of our common stock being exchanged for restricted stock units to acquire approximately 4,996,000 shares, approximately 923,000 shares of restricted stock awards and new options to purchase approximately 18,000 shares. Due to the structure of the Exchange Program as a value-for-value exchange for the eligible options tendered for exchange, and certain assumptions we are required to use regarding the eligible options for accounting purposes, we will recognize an incremental accounting charge of approximately $70 million over the vesting period of the restricted stock units, restricted stock and options issued in the Exchange Program in addition to recognizing any remaining unrecognized expense for the stock options surrendered in the exchange. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. International sales ( i.e. , revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States), are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 45 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2010 and approximately 43 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2009. We believe that in order to succeed internationally, it is important to locally develop content that is specifically directed toward local cultures and customs. Year-over-year, we estimate that foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on our net revenue of approximately $107 million, or 3 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, the U.S. dollar strengthened against other currencies, including the Euro and the British pound sterling. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents 32 Table of Contents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may continue to have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs, handheld game players (such as the PSP and Nintendo DS), and mobile devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone). We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition , and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition . We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products that must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For online game services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. For digital downloads that do not have an online service component, delivery is generally considered to occur when the download is made available. Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered, (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services, (3) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or management judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Depending on the type of product, we may offer an online service that permits consumers to play against others via the Internet and/or receive additional updates or content from us. For those games that consumers can play via the Internet, we may provide a matchmaking service that permits consumers to connect with other consumers to play against each other online. In those situations where we do not require an additional fee for this 33 Table of Contents online service, we account for the sale of the software product and the online service as a bundled sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and the online service for one combined price. We defer net revenue from sales of these games for which we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provided in connection with the sale, and recognize the revenue from these games over the estimated online service period, which is generally estimated to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. In addition, for some software products we also provide updates or additional content (digital content) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell digital content for an additional fee; however, some purchased digital content can only be accessed via the Internet ( i.e. , the consumer never takes possession of the digital content). We account for online transactions in which the consumer does not take possession of the digital content as a service transaction and, accordingly, we recognize the associated revenue over the estimated service period. In other transactions, at the date we sell the software product we have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. In these cases, we account for the sale of the software product as a multiple element arrangement and recognize the revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of game play. Determining whether a transaction constitutes an online service transaction or a digital content download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from an online game service is recognized as the service is rendered. If the service period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. Determining the estimated service period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. In addition, determining whether we have an implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee can be difficult. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock-balancing programs for our PC and video game system software products, which allow for the exchange of these software products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange software products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for our software products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game segment, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. For example, the risk of product returns and/or price protection for our software products may continue to increase as the PlayStation 2 console moves through its lifecycle. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online-enabled packaged goods software products change, the amount of deferred net revenue we recognize in the future would change. 34 Table of Contents Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the conclusion on the appropriate accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets and acquired in-process technology, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the delayed receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to the assessments: Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets and acquired in-process technology are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount to recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration issued requires an assessment of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participants view of the risk associated with the obligation. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long-Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived acquisition-related intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential 35 Table of Contents impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. We are required to perform a two-step approach to testing goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which (1) discrete financial information is available and (2) segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. We are required to perform the impairment test at least annually by applying a fair value-based test. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. To determine the fair value of each reporting unit used in the first step, we use a combination of the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, and/or the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on our weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of accuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Assessment of Impairment of Short-Term Investments, Marketable Equity Securities and Other Investments. We periodically review our short-term investments, marketable equity securities and other investments for impairment. Our short-term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available-for-sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold or (2) we determine that the fair value of the security has declined below its adjusted cost basis and the decline is other-than-temporary. Realized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are calculated based on the specific identification method and are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income, net, and losses on strategic investments, net, respectively. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, and our intent to sell and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, any contractual terms impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as well as, if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before its anticipated recovery. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $26 million, $57 million, and $109 million, respectively, on our marketable equity securities. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. 36 Table of Contents Our other investments consist principally of non-voting preferred shares in two companies whose common stock is publicly traded and are accounted for under the cost method. Under this method, these investments are recorded at cost until we determine that the fair value of the investment has fallen below its adjusted cost basis and that such declines are other-than-temporary. We monitor these investments for impairment and make appropriate reductions in the carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees. During the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $10 million, and $9 million, respectively, on our other investments. We did not recognize any impairment charges in fiscal year 2010 on our other investments. Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. Stock-Based Compensation We are required to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant. We recognize compensation costs for stock-based payment transactions to employees based on their grant-date fair value on a straight-line approach over the service period for which such awards are expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units and restricted stock is determined based on the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans and our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), respectively, is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The determination of fair value is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables such as expected employee exercise behavior and our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the award. Generally, our assumptions are based on historical information and judgment is required to determine if historical trends may be indicators of future outcomes. The key assumptions for the Black-Scholes valuation calculation are: Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. Expected volatility . We use a combination of historical stock price volatility and implied volatility computed based on the price of options publicly traded on our common stock for our expected volatility assumption. Expected term . The expected term represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The expected term is determined based on historical exercise behavior, post-vesting termination patterns, options outstanding and future expected exercise behavior. Expected dividends . Employee stock-based compensation expense is calculated based on awards ultimately expected to vest and is reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates and an adjustment to stock-based compensation expense will be recognized at that time. Changes to our underlying stock price, our assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option valuation calculation and our forfeiture rate, as well as future equity granted or assumed through acquisitions could significantly impact the compensation expense we recognize. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, 37 Table of Contents professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. These obligations are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next twelve months. As of March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2009, approximately $13 million and $37 million, respectively, of minimum guaranteed royalty obligations had been recognized. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of goods sold. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts and, therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $10 million, loss charges of $43 million and loss and impairment charges of $4 million, respectively. The $10 million impairment charge recognized during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, was primarily related to our fiscal 2010 restructuring. This impairment is included in restructuring charges presented in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The loss charges in fiscal year 2009 primarily related to an amendment of a licensor agreement in which we terminated certain rights we previously had to use the licensors intellectual property. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it 38 Table of Contents is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the recent deterioration of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. For example, in determining the valuation allowance we recorded at June 30, 2009, we did not include as a source of future taxable income the taxable temporary difference related to the accumulated tax depreciation on our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to lease obligations to non-affiliated parties which expired in July 2009, and had been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Therefore, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $31 million, consisting of approximately $6 million related to the loss on our lease obligation and a $25 million reduction in our valuation allowance due to the inclusion of a significant portion of the remaining taxable temporary difference as a source of future taxable income. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. 39 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 contained 53 weeks and ended on April 3, 2010. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 contained 52 weeks and ended on March 28, 2009 and March 29, 2008, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Comparison of Fiscal 2010 to Fiscal 2009 Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods and designed for play on hardware consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs, and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP and Nintendo DS), (2) video games for mobile devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone), (3) digitally downloaded games and content and online services associated with these games, (4) services in connection with some of our online-enabled games, (5) programming third-party web sites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, a non-GAAP financial measure, is provided in this section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for an explanation of our use of this non-GAAP measure. A reconciliation to the corresponding measure calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States is provided in the discussion below. Revenue Deferral in this Net Revenue section, includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and PC digital downloads for which either we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provide in connection with the sale of the software or we have an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content, (2) certain packaged goods sales of massively-multiplayer online role-playing games, and (3) sales of certain incremental digital content associated with our games, which are types of micro-transactions. Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of products that we sell with the online features and services previously discussed, while the recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period is also dependent upon (1) the period of time the online features and services are to be provided and (2) the timing of the sale. For example, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first half of a fiscal year are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, virtually all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year. From a geographical perspective, our total Net Revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2010 2009 North America Europe Asia Total North America Europe Asia Total Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral $ 2,322 $ 1,615 $ 222 $ 4,159 $ 2,362 $ 1,521 $ 203 $ 4,086 Revenue Deferral (1,255 ) (981 ) (122 ) (2,358 ) (538 ) (472 ) (67 ) (1,077 ) Recognition of Revenue Deferral 958 799 96 1,853 588 540 75 1,203 Net Revenue $ 2,025 $ 1,433 $ 196 $ 3,654 $ 2,412 $ 1,589 $ 211 $ 4,212 For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $4,159 million, driven by FIFA 10 , Madden NFL 10 , and The Sims 3 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $73 million, or 2 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by 40 Table of Contents (1) $149 million from sales of Dragon Age which was released in 2010 with no comparable release in 2009, (2) a $137 million increase from sales of The Sims, and (3) $131 million from sales of EA SPORTS Active, which was released in 2010 with no comparable release in 2009. These increases were partially offset by a $329 million decrease from sales of Rock Band. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $1,281 million, or 119 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. Starting in fiscal year 2010, we began to sell substantially all of our online-enabled products released after April 1, 2009, with an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content on a when and if available basis. As we do not have VSOE for this obligation, we are required to recognize the revenue associated with this bundled sale over the expected life of the game. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $263 million increase from sales of The Sims, (2) a $174 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer, (3) a $171 million increase from sales of Battlefield, and (4) $150 million from sales of Dragon Age. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $650 million, or 54 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. This increase is directly related to the increase in the Revenue Deferral in fiscal year 2010. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $215 million increase from sales of The Sims and (2) a $138 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer. For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue was $3,654 million, driven by FIFA 10 , Madden NFL 10 , and The Sims 3 . Net Revenue for fiscal year 2010 decreased $558 million, or 13 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this decrease was primarily driven by (1) a $329 million decrease from sales of Rock Band and (2) an $84 million decrease from sales of Battlefield primarily due to a larger amount being deferred because of our obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content that did not exist in fiscal year 2009. These decreases were partially offset by (1) $131 million from sales of EA SPORTS Active and (2) an $89 million increase from sales of The Sims. North America For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in North America was $2,322 million, driven by Madden NFL 10 , The Beatles :Rock Band , and Battlefield: Bad Company 2 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 decreased $40 million, or 2 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this decrease was primarily driven by a $293 million decrease from sales of Rock Band. This decrease was partially offset by (1) $90 million from sales of EA SPORTS Active, (2) $89 million from sales of Dragon Age, and (3) a $62 million increase from sales of The Sims. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $717 million, or 133 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) a $106 million increase from sales of Madden NFL Football, (2) a $96 million increase from sales of The Sims, (3) a $91 million increase from sales of Battlefield, and (4) $91 million from sales of Dragon Age. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $370 million, or 63 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) an $80 million increase from sales of Madden NFL Football, (2) a $79 million increase from sales of The Sims, (3) $49 million from sales of Dragon Age, and (4) a $45 million increase from sales of Fight Night. For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue in North America was $2,025 million, driven by Madden NFL 10 , The Beatles :Rock Band , and Rock Band 2 . Net Revenue for fiscal year 2010 decreased $387 million, or 16 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this decrease was primarily driven by a $293 million decrease from sales of Rock Band, partially offset by $90 million from sales of EA SPORTS Active. Europe For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Europe was $1,615 million, driven by FIFA 10 , The Sims 3 , and Need for Speed Shift . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $94 million, or 6 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $68 million increase from sales of The Sims, (2) a $64 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer, and (3) $53 million from sales of Dragon Age. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $39 million decrease from sales of Rock Band and (2) a $36 million decrease from sales of Spore. We estimate that 41 Table of Contents foreign exchange rates (primarily the British pound sterling) decreased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $44 million, or 3 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral increased by approximately $138 million, or 9 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased by $509 million, or 108 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) a $152 million increase from sales of The Sims, (2) a $125 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer, and (3) a $70 million increase from sales of Battlefield. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $259 million, or 48 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) a $124 million increase from sales of The Sims and (2) a $111 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer. For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue in Europe was $1,433 million, driven by FIFA 10 , The Sims 3 , and Need for Speed Shift . Net Revenue for fiscal year 2010 decreased $156 million, or 10 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this decrease was primarily driven by (1) a $39 million decrease from sales of Rock Band, (2) a $35 million decrease from sales of Battlefield, and (3) a $35 million decrease from sales of Spore. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the British pound sterling) decreased reported Net Revenue by approximately $116 million, or 7 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that net revenue decreased by approximately $40 million, or 3 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Asia For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Asia was $222 million, driven by FIFA 10, Battlefield: Bad Company 2 , and The Sims 3 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased by $19 million, or 9 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $8 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer, (2) $8 million from sales of EA SPORTS Active, and (3) $7 million from sales of Dragon Age. These increases were partially offset by a $5 million decrease from sales of Mercenaries. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian dollar) increased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $8 million, or 4 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral increased by approximately $11 million, or 5 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $55 million, or 82 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, the increase was driven by (1) a $15 million increase from sales of The Sims, (2) a $10 million increase from sales of Battlefield, and (3) a $9 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2010 increased $21 million, or 28 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) a $12 million increase from sales of The Sims and (2) a $9 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer. For fiscal year 2010, Net Revenue in Asia was $196 million, driven by FIFA 10, The Sims 3 , and FIFA Online 2 . Net Revenue for fiscal year 2010 decreased by $15 million, or 7 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this decrease was primarily driven by a $7 million decrease from sales of Battlefield. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian dollar) increased reported net revenue by approximately $9 million, or 4 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue decreased by approximately $24 million, or 11 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. 42 Table of Contents Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral on Net Revenue related to packaged goods games and digital content. We defer Net Revenue from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we are not able to objectively determine the fair value (as defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software sales) of the online service that we provided in connection with the sale. We recognize the revenue from these games over the estimated online service period. We also defer Net Revenue from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we had an obligation to deliver incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. We recognize the revenue for these games on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the game. We believe that excluding the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral related to packaged goods games and digital content from our operating results is important to facilitate comparisons between years in understanding our underlying sales performance for the period. We use this non-GAAP measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as non-GAAP measures presented by other companies. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged-goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post-launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones), whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third-party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of server costs. Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Net Revenue $1,866 51.1% $2,127 50.5% (12.3%) 0.6% During fiscal year 2010, cost of goods sold increased by 0.6 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to fiscal year 2009. This increase was primarily due to a $631 million increase in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for the twelve months ended March 31, 2010, as compared to the twelve months ended March 31, 2009. Overall, we estimate the increase in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content negatively impacted cost of goods sold as a percent of total net revenue by 7.7 percentage points. The overall increase in cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was partially mitigated by (1) a greater percentage of net revenue from EA studio products, which have a higher margin than our co-publishing and distribution products, which positively impacted cost of goods sold as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 3.1 percent and (2) EA Studio products that we sold which had previously been written down to a lower costs basis and lower inventory write downs on our fiscal year 2010 releases as compared to our fiscal year 2009 releases, which positively impacted cost of goods sold as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 2.1 percent. 43 Table of Contents Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $730 20% $691 16% $39 6% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $39 million, or 6 percent, in fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $56 million in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily to support our launch of new franchises and incremental spending on established franchises. This increase was partially offset by an $15 million decrease in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from a decrease in headcount as a result of our cost reduction initiatives. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $39 million and $31 million in fiscal years 2010 and 2009, respectively. We expect marketing and sales expenses to remain flat in absolute dollars during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $320 9% $332 8% $(12) (4%) General and administrative expenses decreased by $12 million, or 4 percent, in fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to (1) a decrease of $14 million in stock-based compensation expense and (2) a decrease of $7 million in additional personnel-related costs resulting from our cost reduction initiatives. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in facilities related expenses primarily due to a $14 million loss on our lease obligation related to the purchase of our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities. We expect general and administrative expenses to decrease in absolute dollars during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010, primarily due to lower contracted services and facilities-related expenses, partially offset by higher personnel-related expenses. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. 44 Table of Contents Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $1,229 34% $1,359 32% $(130) (10%) Research and development expenses decreased by $130 million, or 10 percent, in fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009. The decrease was primarily due to (1) a decrease of $82 million in additional personnel-related costs primarily resulting from our cost reduction initiatives, (2) a decrease of $46 million in external development and contracted services, and (3) a decrease of $24 million in stock-based compensation expense. These decreases were partially offset by a $23 million increase in incentive-based compensation expense. We expect research and development expenses to decrease in absolute dollars during fiscal year 2011 as compared to fiscal year 2010 primarily due to a decrease in external development costs and lower facilities-related expenses. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $140 4% $80 2% $60 75% Fiscal 2010 Restructuring In fiscal year 2010, we announced details of a restructuring plan to narrow our product portfolio to provide greater focus on titles with higher margin opportunities. Under this plan, we reduced our workforce by approximately 1,200 employees and have been (1) consolidating or closing various facilities, (2) eliminating certain titles, and (3) incurring IT and other costs to assist in reorganizing certain activities. The majority of these actions were completed by March 31, 2010. During fiscal year 2010, we incurred $116 million of restructuring charges, of which (1) $62 million were for employee-related expenses, (2) $32 million related to intangible asset impairment costs, abandoned rights to intellectual property, and other costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and (3) $22 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities. In fiscal year 2011, we anticipate incurring between $15 million and $20 million of restructuring charges related to the fiscal 2010 restructuring. Overall, including charges incurred through March 31, 2010, we expect to incur total cash and non-cash charges between $140 million and $145 million by March 31, 2012. These charges consist primarily of (1) employee-related costs (approximately $65 million), (2) intangible asset impairment costs, abandoned rights to intellectual property costs, and other costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions (approximately $35 million), (3) facilities exit costs (approximately $25 million), and (4) other reorganizational costs including IT and consulting costs (approximately $20 million). Fiscal 2009 Restructuring During fiscal year 2010, we incurred $14 million of restructuring charges, primarily for facilities-related expenses. During fiscal year 2009, we incurred $41 million of restructuring charges, of which $32 million was for employee-related expenses and $7 million was for facilities-related expenses. We do not expect to incur any additional restructuring charges under this plan. Fiscal 2008 Reorganization During fiscal year 2010, we incurred $10 million of reorganization charges, primarily related to other expenses, including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. During fiscal 45 Table of Contents year 2009, we incurred $34 million of reorganization charges, of which $22 million was for facilities-related expenses and $12 million related to other expenses, including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. We do not expect to incur any additional charges under this plan. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $53 1% $58 1% $(5) (9%) Amortization of intangibles decreased by $5 million, or 9 percent, in fiscal year 2010, as compared to fiscal year 2009, primarily due to a change in the estimated useful lives of certain intangibles. This decrease is partially offset by the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of Playfish. Acquired In-Process Technology Prior to the adoption of FASB ASC 805, upon consummation of an acquisition, we generally incurred a charge for the related acquired in-process technology, as reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. The development of a majority of the projects for which we incurred an acquired-in process technology charge in connection with our acquisition of VGH were either completed or did not reach technological feasibility and therefore were abandoned. As of March 31, 2010, we had one project in connection with our acquisition of VGH that continued to be in-process. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Certain Abandoned Acquisition-Related Costs Certain abandoned acquisition-related costs consist of costs we incurred in connection with the abandoned acquisition of Take-Two. On August 18, 2008, we allowed our tender offer for Take-Two shares to expire and on September 14, 2008, we announced that we had terminated discussions with Take-Two. As a result, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized $21 million in related costs consisting of legal, banking and other consulting fees. Goodwill Impairment Adverse economic conditions, including the decline in our market capitalization and our expected financial performance at the time, indicated that a potential impairment of goodwill existed during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. As a result, we performed goodwill impairment tests for our reporting units. As a result of the goodwill impairment analysis, we determined that our EA Mobile reporting units goodwill was impaired. Substantially all of our goodwill associated with our EA Mobile reporting unit was derived from our fiscal 2006 acquisition of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $368 million related to our EA Mobile reporting unit. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, we performed our annual goodwill impairment test for our reporting units, and we determined that there were no indicators of impairment to our goodwill. There were no events or circumstances subsequent to the completion of our impairment testing that indicated an assessment was necessary. Losses on Strategic Investments, Net Losses on strategic investments, net for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $(26) (1%) $(62) (1%) $36 58% 46 Table of Contents During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010, losses on strategic investments, net decreased by $36 million, or 58 percent, as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. We recognized a $26 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized (1) $40 million of impairment charges on our investments in Neowizs common and preferred shares and (2) a $27 million impairment charge on our investment in The9. These charges were offset by a $5 million dividend received from our investment in The9. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $6 $34 1% $(28) (82%) For fiscal year 2010, interest and other income, net, decreased by $28 million, or 82 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2009, primarily due to a decrease in interest income resulting from lower yields and balances on our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments. Income Taxes Income tax provision (benefit) for fiscal years 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2010 Effective Tax Rate March 31, 2009 Effective Tax Rate % Change $(29) (4.1%) $233 27.2% (112%) Our effective income tax rate was a tax benefit of 4.1 percent for fiscal year 2010. Our effective income tax rate was 27.2 percent for fiscal year 2009. In fiscal year 2010, our effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0 percent due primarily to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, tax charges related to our integration of Playfish, non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit and non-deductible stock-based compensation expenses, partially offset by benefits related to the resolution of examinations by taxing authorities and reductions in the valuation allowance on U.S. deferred tax assets. In fiscal year 2009, we recorded a tax provision instead of a tax benefit on the pre-tax loss due primarily to the deferred tax valuation allowance. Our effective tax rate in fiscal 2009 differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0 percent due primarily to the deferred tax valuation allowance, non-deductible goodwill impairment, non-deductible stock-based compensation expenses, non-deductible losses on strategic investments, losses in jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the U.S. rate of 35.0 percent, and a loss on facility impairment for which the future tax benefit is uncertain and not more likely than not to be realized. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2011 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre-tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax provision will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit 47 Table of Contents of deferred tax assets. For example, in determining the valuation allowance we recorded at June 30, 2009, we did not include as a source of future taxable income the taxable temporary difference related to the accumulated tax depreciation on our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to lease obligations to non-affiliated parties which expired in July 2009, and had been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Therefore, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $31 million, consisting of approximately $6 million related to the loss on our lease obligation and a $25 million reduction in our valuation allowance due to the inclusion of a significant portion of the remaining taxable temporary difference as a source of future taxable income. The Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009 (the Act) was signed into law on November 6, 2009. The Act provides that taxpayers may elect to increase the carry back period for tax losses incurred in a taxable year beginning or ending in either 2008 or 2009. During the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009, we elected to increase the carry back period for tax losses incurred in fiscal year 2009. This election resulted in a reduction in the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets due to an increase in the sources of taxable income from the extended carry back period. As a result, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $28 million in the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2009 for the reduction in the valuation allowance. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. Comparison of Fiscal 2009 to Fiscal 2008 Net Revenue From a geographical perspective, our total Net Revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): Year Ended March 31, 2009 2008 North America Europe Asia Total North America Europe Asia Total Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral $ 2,362 $ 1,521 $ 203 $ 4,086 $ 2,100 $ 1,710 $ 210 $ 4,020 Revenue Deferral (538 ) (472 ) (67 ) (1,077 ) (571 ) (548 ) (67 ) (1,186 ) Recognition of Revenue Deferral 588 540 75 1,203 413 379 39 831 Net Revenue $ 2,412 $ 1,589 $ 211 $ 4,212 $ 1,942 $ 1,541 $ 182 $ 3,665 For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $4,086 million, driven by Rock Band, FIFA 09, and Madden NFL 09 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 increased $66 million, or 2 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $270 million increase from sales of Rock Band and (2) $115 million from sales of Spore, which was released in fiscal year 2009 with no comparable release in fiscal year 2008. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $183 million decrease from sales of The Sims and (2) a $146 million decrease from sales of The Simpsons, which was released in fiscal year 2008 with no comparable release in fiscal year 2009. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 decreased $109 million, or 9 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, the decrease was primarily driven by (1) a $61 million decrease from sales of 48 Table of Contents FIFA Soccer, (2) a $54 million decrease from sales of Medal of Honor, (3) a $42 million decrease from sales of NBA Live, and (4) a $29 million decrease from sales of Army of Two, which was released in fiscal year 2008 with no comparable release in fiscal year 2009. These decreases were partially offset by $87 million from sales of Spore. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 increased $372 million, or 45 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. Starting in fiscal year 2008, since VSOE did not exist for our online service, we began to recognize all of the Net Revenue from bundled sales on a deferred basis over an estimated online service period, which generally is estimated to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. As a result, in fiscal year 2008 we recognized $831 million of Revenue Deferral related to packaged goods and digital content from fiscal year 2008 sales and did not have any recognition of Revenue Deferral related to packaged goods and digital content from fiscal year 2007 sales. However, in fiscal year 2009, we recognized revenue of $354 million from sales made in fiscal year 2008 and revenue of $849 million from sales made in fiscal year 2009. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) $83 million from sales of Spore, (2) a $44 million increase from sales of Need for Speed, and (3) a $39 million increase from sales of Army of Two. For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue was $4,212 million, driven by Rock Band, FIFA 09, and Rock Band 2 . Net Revenue for fiscal year 2009 increased $547 million, or 15 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $270 million increase from sales of Rock Band and (2) $110 million from sales of Spore, and (3) an $82 million increase from sales of Battlefield. North America For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in North America was $2,362 million, driven by Rock Band 2 , Madden NFL 09 , and Rock Band. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 increased $262 million, or 12 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $184 million increase from sales of Rock Band and (2) $63 million from sales of Spore. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 decreased $33 million, or 6 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, the decrease was primarily driven by (1) a $28 million decrease from sales of NBA Live, (2) a $24 million decrease from sales of Madden NFL Football, (3) a $20 million decrease from sales of Medal of Honor, (4) a $16 million decrease from sales of FIFA Soccer, and (5) a $14 million decrease from sales of Army of Two. These decreases were partially offset by (1) $46 million from sales of Spore and (2) $21 million from sales of Warhammer. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 increased $175 million, or 42 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) $43 million from sales of Spore, (2) a $19 million increase from sales of Army of Two, and (3) $14 million from sales of Warhammer. For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue in North America was $2,412 million, driven by Rock Band 2 , Rock Band , and Madden NFL 09. Net Revenue for fiscal year 2009 increased $470 million, or 24 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $184 million increase from sales of Rock Band and (2) $60 million from sales of Spore. Europe For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Europe was $1,521 million, driven by FIFA 09 , Need for Speed Undercover , and Rock Band . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 decreased $189 million, or 11 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this decrease was primarily driven by (1) a $123 million decrease from sales of The Sims, (2) a $91 million decrease from sales of The Simpsons, (3) a $69 million decrease from sales of Need for Speed, and (4) a $63 million decrease from sales of Harry Potter. These decreases were partially offset by (1) a $79 million increase from 49 Table of Contents sales of Rock Band, (2) $45 million from sales of Spore, and (3) a $34 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the British pound sterling) decreased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $37 million, or 2 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral decreased by approximately $152 million, or 9 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 decreased by $76 million, or 14 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, the decrease was primarily driven by (1) a $46 million decrease from sales of FIFA Soccer, (2) a $29 million decrease from sales of Medal of Honor, (3) a $16 million decrease from sales of Crysis , and (4) a $15 million decrease from sales of Burnout. These decreases were partially offset by $36 million of sales from Spore. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 increased $161 million, or 42 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) $35 million from sales of Spore, (2) a $29 million increase from sales of Need for Speed, and (3) a $16 million increase from sales of Battlefield. For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue in Europe was $1,589 million, driven by FIFA 09 , Need for Speed Undercover , and Rock Band . Net Revenue for fiscal year 2009 increased $48 million, or 3 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) a $79 million increase from sales of Rock Band, (2) a $58 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer, and (3) $44 million from sales of Spore. These increases were partially offset by a $123 million decrease from sales of The Sims. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the British pound sterling) decreased reported Net Revenue by approximately $19 million, or 1 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue increased by approximately $67 million, or 4 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Asia For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Asia was $203 million, driven by FIFA 09 , Need for Speed Undercover , and Battlefield: Bad Company . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 decreased by $7 million, or 3 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this decrease was primarily driven by (1) an $11 million decrease from sales of The Simpsons and (2) a $10 million decrease from sales of Medal of Honor. These decreases were partially offset by (1) a $7 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer and (2) a $6 million increase from sales of Rock Band. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (particularly the Australian dollar) decreased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $14 million, or 7 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral increased by approximately $7 million, or 4 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 remained unchanged as compared to fiscal year 2008. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for fiscal year 2009 increased $36 million, or 92 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From a franchise perspective, the increase was primarily driven by (1) a $6 million increase from sales of Need for Speed, (2) a $5 million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer, and (3) $5 million from sales of Spore. For fiscal year 2009, Net Revenue in Asia was $211 million, driven by FIFA 09 , Need for Speed Undercover , and Need for Speed ProStreet . Net Revenue for fiscal year 2009 increased by $29 million, or 16 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008. From an operational perspective, this increase was primarily driven by (1) an $11 50 Table of Contents million increase from sales of FIFA Soccer, (2) a $7 million increase from sales of Battlefield, and (3) a $6 million increase from sales of Rock Band. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (particularly the Australian dollar) decreased reported Net Revenue by approximately $10 million, or 5 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue increased by approximately $39 million, or 21 percent, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as compared to the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008. Non-GAAP Financial Measures See Non-GAAP Financial Measures above for more information on our use of Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral as a measure of our operating results. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged-goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post-launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones), whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third-party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of server costs. Cost of goods sold for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Net Revenue $2,127 50.5% $1,805 49.3% 17.8% 1.2% For fiscal year 2009, cost of goods sold increased by 1.2 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to fiscal year 2008. This increase was primarily due to: A greater percentage of net revenue from co-publishing and distribution products, which have a lower margin, as compared to our EA studio products, An increase in price protection taken or expected to be taken for products already sold, An increase in our inventory write-downs as a result of future expected demand for our products, and Losses on intellectual property licensor agreements. The overall increase in cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was mitigated by an increase of $372 million in the Recognition of Revenue Deferral and a $109 million decrease in the Revenue Deferral, as discussed in the Net Revenue section above, which decreased the cost of goods sold as a percent of total net revenue by approximately 6 percent. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. 51 Table of Contents Marketing and sales expenses for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $691 16 % $ 588 16 % $ 103 18 % Marketing and sales expenses increased by $103 million, or 18 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008. The increase was primarily due to (1) an increase of $85 million in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily to support our launch of new franchises and incremental spending on established franchises and (2) a $17 million increase in additional personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount prior to actions taken under our fiscal 2009 restructuring. Marketing and sales expenses included vendor reimbursements for advertising expenses of $31 million and $54 million in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $332 8 % $ 339 9 % $ (7 ) (2 %) General and administrative expenses decreased by $7 million, or 2 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008 primarily due to a decrease in facilities-related expenses of $14 million, partially offset by an increase of $9 million in stock-based compensation expense. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $1,359 32 % $ 1,145 31 % $ 214 19 % Research and development expenses increased by $214 million, or 19 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008. The increase was primarily due to (1) higher external development costs of $120 million due to a greater number of projects in development as compared to the prior year and the recognition of costs related to our acquisition of VGH for all of fiscal year 2009 compared to approximately three months in fiscal year 2008, (2) an increase of $66 million in additional personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount prior to actions taken under our fiscal 2009 restructuring, (3) an increase of $43 million in stock-based compensation expense, and (4) an increase in facilities-related expenses of $8 million to support our research and development functions worldwide. These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $26 million in incentive-based compensation expense. 52 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairment Adverse economic conditions, including the decline in our market capitalization and our expected financial performance at the time, indicated that a potential impairment of goodwill existed during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. As a result, we performed goodwill impairment tests for our reporting units. As a result of the goodwill impairment analysis, we determined that our EA Mobile reporting units goodwill was impaired. Substantially all of our goodwill associated with our EA Mobile reporting unit was derived from our fiscal 2006 acquisition of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $368 million related to our EA Mobile reporting unit. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $80 2 % $ 103 3 % $ (23 ) (22 %) Fiscal 2009 Restructuring In fiscal year 2009, we announced details of a cost reduction plan as a result of our performance combined with the economic environment. This plan includes a narrowing of our product portfolio, a reduction in our worldwide workforce of approximately 11 percent, or 1,100 employees, the closure of 10 facilities, and reductions in other variable costs and capital expenditures. During fiscal year 2009, we incurred $41 million of restructuring charges, of which $32 million was for employee-related expenses and $7 million was for facilities-related expenses. Fiscal 2008 Reorganization During fiscal year 2009, we incurred $34 million of reorganization charges, of which $22 million was for facilities-related expenses and $12 million related to other expenses, including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. During the fiscal year 2008, we incurred $97 million of reorganization charges, of which $58 million was for facilities-related expenses, $27 million was other expenses including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and $12 million was employee-related expenses. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $58 1 % $ 34 1 % $ 24 71 % Amortization of intangibles increased by $24 million, or 71 percent, in fiscal year 2009, as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily due to the amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of VGH. Certain Abandoned Acquisition-Related Costs Certain abandoned acquisition-related costs consist of costs we incurred in connection with the abandoned acquisition of Take-Two. On August 18, 2008, we allowed our tender offer for Take-Two shares to expire and on September 14, 2008, we announced that we had terminated discussions with Take-Two. As a result, during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, we recognized $21 million in related costs consisting of legal, banking and other consulting fees. 53 Table of Contents Acquired In-Process Technology Acquired in-process technology includes the value of products in the development stage that are not considered to have reached technological feasibility or have an alternative future use. Accordingly, prior to the adoption of FASB ASC 805, upon consummation of an acquisition, we generally incurred a charge for the related acquired in-process technology, as reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. See Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this report. Acquired in-process technology charges for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $3 $138 4% $(135) (98%) Acquired in-process technology decreased by $135 million, or 98 percent, in fiscal year 2009 as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily due to the charge of $138 million related to our acquisition of VGH in fiscal year 2008. Losses on Strategic Investments, Net Losses on strategic investments, net for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $(62) (1%) $(118) (3%) $56 (47%) During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, losses on strategic investments, net decreased by $56 million, or 47 percent, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2008. We recognized (1) a $40 million impairment charge on our investments in Neowizs common and preferred shares and (2) a $27 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 during the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009. These charges were partially offset by a $5 million dividend received from our investment in The9. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2008, we recognized (1) an $81 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 and (2) a $37 million impairment charge on our investments in Neowiz Corporations common and preferred shares. Interest and Other Income, Net Interest and other income, net, for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue March 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change $34 1% $98 3% $(64) (65%) For fiscal year 2009, interest and other income, net, decreased by $64 million, or 65 percent, as compared to fiscal year 2008, primarily due to a decrease in interest income resulting from lower yields on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances. Income Taxes Income tax provision (benefit) for fiscal years 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): March 31, 2009 Effective Tax Rate March 31, 2008 Effective Tax Rate % Change $233 27.2% $(53) (10.3%) (540%) 54 Table of Contents In fiscal year 2009, we recorded a tax provision instead of a tax benefit on the pre-tax loss due primarily to the deferred tax valuation allowance. Our effective income tax provision rate was 27.2 percent for fiscal year 2009. Our effective income tax was a benefit of 10.3 percent for fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2009, our effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate of 35.0 percent due primarily to the deferred tax valuation allowance, non-deductible goodwill impairment, non-deductible stock-based compensation expenses, non-deductible losses on strategic investments, losses in jurisdictions with tax rates lower than the U.S. rate of 35.0 percent, and a loss on facility impairment for which the future tax benefit is uncertain and not more likely than not to be realized. In fiscal year 2008, our effective income tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 35.0 percent due primarily to non-deductible acquisition-related costs, losses on strategic investments, a loss on facility impairment for which the future tax benefit is uncertain and not more likely than not to be realized, and certain non-deductible stock-based compensation expenses. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements . This guidance modifies the fair value requirements of FASB ASC subtopic 605-25, Revenue Recognition-Multiple Element Arrangements , by allowing the use of the best estimate of selling price in addition to vendor specific objective evidence and third-party evidence for determining the selling price of a deliverable. This guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, which is based on: (a) vendor-specific objective evidence, (b) third-party evidence, or (c) estimated selling prices. In addition, the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration is no longer permitted. ASU 2009-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009-13 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements . This guidance modifies the scope of FASB ASC subtopic 965-605, Software-Revenue Recognition , to exclude from its requirements non-software components of tangible products and software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non-software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality. ASU 2009-14 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009-14 to have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. 55 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of March 31, Decrease (In millions) 2010 2009 Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,273 $ 1,621 $ (348 ) Short-term investments 432 534 (102 ) Marketable equity securities 291 365 (74 ) Total $ 1,996 $ 2,520 $ (524 ) Percentage of total assets 43 % 54 % Year Ended March 31, Increase / (Decrease) (In millions) 2010 2009 Cash provided by operating activities $ 152 $ 12 $ 140 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (572 ) 23 (595 ) Cash provided by financing activities 53 91 (38 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 19 (58 ) 77 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ (348 ) $ 68 $ (416 ) Changes in Cash Flow During fiscal year 2010, we generated $152 million of cash from operating activities as compared to generating $12 million for fiscal year 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 was primarily due to decreases in personnel-related costs and external development and contracted services as part of our cost reduction initiatives, as well as a reduction in incentive-based compensation payments. For fiscal year 2010, we generated $710 million of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments. Our primary use of cash in non-operating activities consisted of (1) $611 million used to purchase short-term investments, (2) $305 million in capital expenditures, of which $233 million was used to purchase our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities, (3) $283 million used for acquisitions, of which $275 million, net of cash acquired, was used to fund our acquisition of Playfish, and (4) a $100 million increase in acquisition-related restricted cash for contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Playfish. Short-term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of March 31, 2010, our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of $2 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business combinations or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. The fair value of our marketable equity securities decreased to $291 million as of March 31, 2010, from $365 million as of March 31, 2009. This decrease was due to (1) a $31 million decrease in the unrealized gains on our investments, (2) impairment charges of $26 million recognized on our investment in The9, and (3) a $17 million decrease in the cost basis of our investment in The9 resulting from the sale of a portion of this investment. Receivables, Net Our gross accounts receivable balances were $423 million and $333 million as of March 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in our accounts receivable balance was primarily due to higher sales volumes in the 56 Table of Contents fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts as of March 31, 2010 and 2009 was flat at $217 million. As a percentage of trailing nine month net revenue, reserves increased from 6 percent as of March 31, 2009, to 7 percent as of March 31, 2010. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts. Inventories Inventories decreased to $100 million as of March 31, 2010 from $217 million as of March 31, 2009, primarily as a result of lower Rock Band inventory. Other Current Assets and Other Assets Other current assets increased to $239 million as of March 31, 2010, from $216 million as of March 31, 2009, while other assets increased to $175 million as of March 31, 2010 from $115 million as of March 31, 2009. Other current assets and other assets combined, increased by $83 million primarily due to a $100 million increase in acquisition-related restricted cash for contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Playfish. Accounts Payable Accounts payable decreased to $91 million as of March 31, 2010, from $152 million as of March 31, 2009, primarily due to payments related to our inventory purchases and royalty payables. Accrued and Other Current Liabilities Our accrued and other current liabilities decreased to $717 million as of March 31, 2010 from $723 million as of March 31, 2009. The $6 million decrease was primarily due to a $93 million decrease in accrued royalties. This decrease was partially offset by (1) a $39 million increase in contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Playfish and (2) an increase of $35 million in our accrued compensation and benefits. Deferred income taxes, net Our net deferred income tax asset position increased by $22 million as of March 31, 2010 as compared to March 31, 2009 primarily due to (1) an increase of $12 million for tax credit and loss carryovers in Canada and the United Kingdom and (2) a net increase of $5 million in U.S. deferred taxes for decreases in the valuation allowance offset by changes in the netting of deferred taxes with liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and, potentially, future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. The loan financing arrangements supporting our Redwood City headquarters leases, described in the Off-Balance Sheet Commitments section below, expired in July 2009. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities comprised of approximately 660,000 square feet concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to lease obligations to non-affiliated parties, which expired in July 2009, and had previously been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. 57 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2010, approximately $734 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments and $161 million of our marketable equity securities were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part I, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non-employee software developers (independent artists or third-party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fuball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League) (professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR and Tiger Woods (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter); National Football League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football and basketball); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (most of Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties); and the Estate of Robert Ludlum (Robert Ludlum novels and films). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. 58 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations as of March 31, 2010, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Contractual Obligations Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases (a) Developer/ Licensor Commitments (b) Marketing Other Purchase Obligations Total 2011 $ 46 $ 253 $ 91 $ 2 $ 392 2012 39 244 53 1 337 2013 32 164 47 243 2014 23 12 27 62 2015 18 13 15 46 Thereafter 23 607 92 722 Total $ 181 $ 1,293 $ 325 $ 3 $ 1,802 (a) See discussion on operating leases in the Off-Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. Lease commitments have not been reduced by minimum sub-lease rentals for unutilized office space resulting from our reorganization activities of approximately $13 million due in the future under non-cancelable sub-leases. (b) Developer/licensor commitments include $13 million of commitments that have been recorded in current and long-term liabilities and a corresponding amount in current and long-term assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of March 31, 2010 because payment is not contingent upon performance by the developer or licensor. The amounts represented in the table above reflect our minimal cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be expensed in our Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to what is included in the table above as of March 31, 2010, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $277 million, of which approximately $35 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. In connection with our acquisition of Playfish on November 9, 2009, we may be required to pay additional variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2011. The additional consideration is limited to a maximum of $100 million. Subsequent to March 31, 2010, we entered into various licensor and development agreements with third parties, which contingently commits us to pay up to $170 million at various dates through fiscal year 2016. No single licensor and development agreement represented greater than one-third of the total $170 million. Related Person Transaction Prior to becoming Chief Executive Officer of Electronic Arts, John Riccitiello was a co-founder and Managing Partner of Elevation Partners, L.P., and also served as Chief Executive Officer of VGH, which we acquired in January 2008. At the time of the acquisition, Mr. Riccitiello held an indirect financial interest in VGH resulting from his interest in the entity that controlled Elevation Partners, L.P. and his interest in a limited partner of Elevation Partners, L.P. Elevation Partners, L.P. was a significant stockholder of VGH. As a result of the acquisition, Mr. Riccitiellos financial returns related to these interests, including returns of deemed capital contributions, were $2.4 million through May 2008 (some of which Mr. Riccitiello could be required to return depending on the performance of the Elevation entities). Mr. Riccitiello has not received any additional payments related to the VGH acquisition to date. However, he could receive up to an additional $1.6 million plus any interest or other amounts earned thereon. This amount could be reduced, however, by a variety of factors, 59 Table of Contents including investment losses of Elevation, if any, as well as certain expenses of Elevation that could offset partnership profits. Upon his separation from Elevation Partners, L.P., Mr. Riccitiello ceased to have any further control or influence over these factors. From the commencement of negotiations with VGH, at the direction of EAs Board of Directors, EAs Audit Committee engaged directly with EA management (independently from Mr. Riccitiello) to analyze and consider the potential benefits, risks and material terms of the acquisition. EAs Board of Directors approved the acquisition after reviewing with EAs management and members of the Audit Committee the terms of the acquisition and the potential benefits and risks thereof, as well as Mr. Riccitiellos personal financial interest in VGH and the acquisition. Mr. Riccitiello recused himself from the Board of Directors meeting during the Boards deliberation of the acquisition and he did not vote on the acquisition. OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments As of March 31, 2010, we leased certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities comprised of approximately 660,000 square feet concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to lease obligations to non-affiliated parties, which expired in July 2009, and had previously been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Subsequent to our purchase, we classified the facilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as property and equipment, net and depreciate the facilities acquired, excluding land, on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives. Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. INFLATION We believe the impact of inflation on our results of operations has not been significant in any of the past three fiscal years. 60 Table of Contents