Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate, plan, predict, seek, goal, will, may, likely, should, could (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements that refer to projections of our future financial performance, trends in our business, projections of markets relevant to our business, uncertain events and assumptions and other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements consist of, among other things, statements related to industry prospects, our future financial performance, and our business plans and objectives, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and reflect managements current expectations. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include those discussed in Part II, Item 1A of this Quarterly Report under the heading Risk Factors in, as well as in other documents we have filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 . We assume no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statement for any reason, except as required by law. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers provides important context for our results for the three months ended December 31, 2019 , as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Risk Factors, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 as filed with the SEC on May 24, 2019 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We are a global leader in digital interactive entertainment, with a mission to inspire the world to play. We develop, market, publish and deliver games and services that can be played and watched on a variety of platforms, including game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. In our games and services, we use brands that we either wholly own (such as Battlefield, The Sims, Apex Legends, Anthem, Need for Speed and Plants v. Zombies) or license from others (such as FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars). We develop and publish games and services across diverse genres such as sports, first-person shooter, action, role-playing and simulation, and offer our games and services through diverse business models and distribution channels, such as retail, download, subscription and free-to-play. We believe that the breadth and depth of our portfolio and our flexibility in business models and distribution channels provide us with strategic advantages. Financial Results Our key financial results for our fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2019 were as follows: Total net revenue was $1,593 million , up 24 percent year-over-year. On a constant currency basis, we estimate total net revenue would have been $1,616 million, up 25 percent year-over-year. Digital net revenue was $1,124 million , up 24 percent year-over-year. Gross margin was 68.1 percent , remaining relatively consistent year-over-year. Operating expenses were $724 million , up 14 percent year-over-year. On a constant currency basis, we estimate that operating expenses would have been $733 million, up 16 percent year over year. Operating income was $361 million , up 49 percent year-over-year. Net income was $346 million with diluted earnings per share of $1.18 . Operating cash flow was $1,104 million, up 16 percent year-over-year. Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $5,602 million . We repurchased 3.1 million shares of our common stock for $305 million . 33 Table of Contents From time to time, we make comparisons of current periods to prior periods with reference to constant currency. Constant currency comparisons are based on translating local currency amounts in the current period at actual foreign exchange rates from the prior comparable period. We evaluate our financial performance on a constant currency basis in order to facilitate period-to-period comparisons without regard to the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates. Trends in Our Business Digital Business. Players increasingly purchase our games as digital downloads, as opposed to purchasing physical discs, and engage with the live services that we provide on an ongoing basis. Our live services provide additional depth and engagement opportunities for our players and include extra content, subscriptions, and esports. Our net revenue attributable to live services for the console and PC platforms was $2,216 million, $2,083 million and $1,589 million during fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and we expect that live services net revenue will continue to be material to our business. Within live services, net revenue attributable to extra content was $1,631 million, $1,476 million and $1,204 million during fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Net revenue attributable to extra content has increased as players engage with our games and services over longer periods of time, and purchase additional content designed to enhance the overall gameplay experience. Our most popular live service is the extra content purchased for the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises. Ultimate Team allows players to collect current and former professional players in order to build and compete as a personalized team. Net revenue from extra content sales for Ultimate Team was $1,369 million, $1,180 million and $867 million during fiscal years 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively, a substantial portion of which was derived from FIFA Ultimate Team . Our digital transformation also is creating opportunities in platforms, content models and the way in which players engage with our games and services. For example, we have leveraged brands and assets from franchises historically associated traditional gaming, such as FIFA, Madden NFL, The Sims, SimCity and Star Wars, to create free-to-play games that are monetized through live services provided with the game. We also offer subscription services, such as EA Access, Origin Access and Origin Access Premier, as we look to build deeper relationships with our players and offer increased choice and flexibility for our players to try new games. The portion of our revenue attributable to our digital business has significantly increased from 59 percent in fiscal year 2017 to 67 percent in fiscal year 2018 and 75 percent during fiscal year 2019. We expect this portion of our business to continue to increase during fiscal year 2020 relative to packaged goods revenue as we continue to focus on developing and monetizing products and services that can be delivered digitally. Technological Infrastructure . As our digital business has grown, our games and services increasingly depend on the reliability, availability and security of our technological infrastructure. We are investing and expect to continue to invest in technology, hardware and software to support our games and services, including with respect to security protections. Our industry is prone to, and our systems and networks are subject to, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other information security incidents that seek to exploit, disable, damage, disrupt or gain access to our networks, our products and services, supporting technological infrastructure, intellectual property and other assets. We expect these threats to our systems and networks to continue. Rapidly Changing Industry. We operate in a dynamic industry that regularly experiences periods of rapid, fundamental change. In order to remain successful, we are required to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, the ways in which our products and services will compete in the market. We adapt our business by investing in creative and technical talent and new technologies, evolving our business strategies and distribution methods and developing new and engaging products and services. In fiscal 2019, we launched two new intellectual properties (Anthem and Apex Legends), brought Apex Legends to market as our first free-to-play console product, added frontline titles to our Origin Access Premier subscription service, and invested in more ways to reach our players now and in the future, such as cloud gaming and esports. We expect to continue to invest in our business to remain competitive, including investments in, among other things, technology to connect our players to each other and to the games they love and the infrastructure to power our games and services. We are adopting consistent, cross-company methodologies to better understand our players needs and continue to invest in technology that enables us to deliver content that will resonate with players, and provide more choice in the way that players connect with their games, with each other, and with new types of content, including esports broadcasts. This connection also allows us to market and deliver content and services for popular franchises like FIFA, Battlefield and Star Wars to our players more efficiently. Free-to-Play Games. The global adoption of mobile devices and a business model for those devices that allows consumers to try new games with no up-front cost, and that are monetized through the live service associated with the game, particularly extra content, has led to significant growth in the mobile gaming industry. Similarly, sales of extra content are the primary driver of our mobile business. We expect the mobile gaming industry to continue to grow during our 2020 fiscal year. Likewise, the consumer acceptance of free-to-play, live service-based, online PC games has broadened our consumer base, and this free-to-play, live service business model is beginning to gain consumer acceptance with respect to console games. We expect extra content revenue generated from mobile, PC and console free-to-play games to remain an important part of our business. 34 Table of Contents Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games. In all major segments of our industry, we see a large portion of games sales concentrated on the most popular titles. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenue historically has been derived from games based on a few popular franchises, several of which we have released on an annual or bi-annual basis. In particular, we have historically derived a significant portion of our net revenue from our largest and most popular game, FIFA, the annualized version of which is consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace. Recurring Revenue Sources. Our business model includes revenue that we deem recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized sports franchises (e.g., FIFA, Madden NFL), our console, PC and mobile catalog titles (i.e., titles that did not launch in the current fiscal year), the associated extra content and other live services and our subscriptions business. We have been able to forecast the revenue from these areas of our business with greater relative confidence than for new games, services and business models. As we continue to incorporate new business models and modalities of play into our games, our goal is to continue to look for opportunities to expand the recurring portion of our business. Net Bookings . In order to improve transparency into our business, we disclose an operating performance metric, net bookings. Net bookings is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period. Net bookings is calculated by adding total net revenue to the change in deferred net revenue for online-enabled games and mobile platform fees. The following is a calculation of our total net bookings for the periods presented: Three Months Ended December 31, Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total net revenue $ 1,593 $ 1,289 $ 4,150 $ 3,712 Change in deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) 428 368 (34 ) 9 Mobile platform fees (43 ) (48 ) (118 ) (141 ) Net bookings $ 1,978 $ 1,609 $ 3,998 $ 3,580 Net bookings were $1,978 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 driven by sales related to FIFA 20, Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Madden NFL 20. Net bookings increased $369 million or 23 percent as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 due primarily to Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, Need for Speed Heat and Apex Legends , partially offset by Battlefield V . Digital net bookings were $1,444 million for the three months ended December 31, 2019 , an increase of $245 million or 20 percent as compared to three months ended December 31, 2018 . The increase in digital net bookings was primarily driven by our live services which grew $209 million or 27 percent year-over-year, primarily due to sales of extra content for Apex Legends, FIFA Ultimate Team and Madden Ultimate Team; and full game downloads which grew $44 million or 16 percent due to net bookings associated with Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Need for Speed Heat, partially offset by Battlefield V . These increases were partially offset by a decrease of $8 million or 6 percent in our mobile business. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from sales of our games, and related extra-content and services that can be played by customers on a variety of platforms which include game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. Our product and service offerings include, but are not limited to, the following: 35 Table of Contents full games with both online and offline functionality (Games with Services), which generally includes (1) the initial game delivered digitally or via physical disc at the time of sale and typically provide access to offline core game content (software license); (2) updates on a when-and-if-available basis, such as software patches or updates, and/or additional free content to be delivered in the future (future update rights); and (3) a hosted connection for online playability (online hosting); full games with online-only functionality which require an Internet connection to access all gameplay and functionality (Online-Hosted Service Games); extra content related to Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games which provides access to additional in-game content; subscriptions, such as Origin Access, Origin Access Premier and EA Access, that generally offers access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits typically for a recurring monthly or annual fee; and licensing to third parties to distribute and host our games and content. We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . We evaluate and recognize revenue by: identifying the contract(s) with the customer; identifying the performance obligations in the contract; determining the transaction price; allocating the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract; and recognizing revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied through the transfer of a promised good or service to a customer (i.e., transfer of control). Certain of our full game and/or extra content are sold to resellers with a contingency that the full game and/or extra content cannot be resold prior to a specific date (Street Date Contingency). We recognize revenue for transactions that have a Street Date Contingency when the Street Date Contingency is removed and the full game and/or extra content can be resold by the reseller. For digital full game and/or extra content downloads sold to customers, we recognize revenue when the full game and/or extra content is made available for download to the customer. Online-Enabled Games Games with Services. Our sales of Games with Services are evaluated to determine whether the software license, future update rights and the online hosting are distinct and separable. Sales of Games with Services are generally determined to have three distinct performance obligations: software license, future update rights, and the online hosting. Since we do not sell the performance obligations on a stand-alone basis, we consider market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate the stand-alone selling price for each performance obligation. For Games with Services, generally 75 percent of the sales price is allocated to the software license performance obligation and recognized at a point in time when control of the license has been transferred to the customer (which is usually at or near the same time as the booking of the transaction). The remaining 25 percent is allocated to the future update rights and the online hosting performance obligations and recognized ratably as the service is provided (over the Estimated Offering Period). Online-Hosted Service Games. Sales of our Online-Hosted Service Games are determined to have one distinct performance obligation: the online hosting. We recognize revenue from these arrangements as the service is provided. Extra Content. Revenue received from sales of downloadable content are derived primarily from the sale of virtual currencies and digital in-game content that enhance players game experience. Sales of extra content are accounted for in a manner consistent with the treatment for our Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games as discussed above, depending upon whether or not the extra content has offline functionality. That is, if the extra content has offline functionality, then the 36 Table of Contents extra content is accounted for similarly to Games with Services (generally determined to have three distinct performance obligations: software license, future update rights, and the online hosting). If the extra content does not have offline functionality, then the extra content is determined to have one distinct performance obligation: the online-hosted service offering. Subscriptions Sales of our subscriptions are deemed to be one performance obligation and we recognize revenue from these arrangements ratably over the subscription term as the performance obligation is satisfied. Licensing Revenue In certain countries, we utilize third-party licensees to distribute and host our games and content in accordance with license agreements, for which the licensees typically pay us a fixed minimum guarantee and/or sales-based royalties. These arrangements typically include multiple performance obligations, such as a time-based license of software and future update rights. We recognize as revenue a portion of the minimum guarantee when we transfer control of the license of software (generally upon commercial launch) and the remaining portion ratably over the contractual term in which we provide the licensee with future update rights. Any sales-based royalties are generally recognized as the related sales occur by the licensee. Revenue Classification We classify our revenue as either product revenue or service and other revenue. Generally, performance obligations that are recognized upfront upon transfer of control are classified as product revenue, while performance obligations that are recognized over the Estimated Offering Period or subscription period as the services are provided are classified as service revenue. Product revenue . Our product revenue includes revenue allocated to the software license performance obligation. Product revenue also includes revenue from the licensing of software to third-parties. Service and other revenue . Our service revenue includes revenue allocated to the future update rights and the online hosting performance obligations. This also includes revenue allocated to the future update rights from the licensing of software to third-parties, software that offers an online-only service such as our Ultimate Team game mode, and subscription services. Significant Judgments around Revenue Arrangements Identifying performance obligations. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods and services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, (i.e., the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available), and are distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., it is separately identifiable from other goods or services in the contract). To the extent a contract includes multiple promises, we must apply judgment to determine whether those promises are separate and distinct performance obligations. If these criteria are not met, the promises are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. Determining the transaction price. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration that we will be entitled to receive in exchange for transferring our goods and services to the customer. Determining the transaction price often requires significant judgment, based on an assessment of contractual terms and business practices. It further includes review of variable consideration such as discounts, sales returns, price protection, and rebates, which is estimated at the time of the transaction. See below for additional information regarding our sales returns and price protection reserves. In addition, the transaction price does not include an estimate of the variable consideration related to sales-based royalties. Sales-based royalties are recognized as the sales occur. Allocating the transaction price. Allocating the transaction price requires that we determine an estimate of the relative stand-alone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. Determining the relative stand-alone selling price is inherently subjective, especially in situations where we do not sell the performance obligation on a stand-alone basis (which occurs in the majority of our transactions). In those situations, we determine the relative stand-alone selling price based on various observable inputs using all information that is reasonably available. Examples of observable inputs and information include: historical internal pricing data, cost plus margin analyses, third-party external pricing of similar or same products and services such as software licenses and maintenance support within the enterprise software industry. The results of our analysis resulted in a specific percentage of the transaction price being allocated to each performance obligation. 37 Table of Contents Determining the Estimated Offering Period. The offering period is the period in which we offer to provide the future update rights and/or online hosting for the game and related extra content sold. Because the offering period is not an explicitly defined period, we must make an estimate of the offering period for the service related performance obligations (i.e., future update rights and online hosting). Determining the Estimated Offering Period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision. Generally, we consider the average period of time customers are online when estimating the offering period. We also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to the customer (i.e., time in channel). Based on these two factors, we then consider the method of distribution. For example, games sold at retail would have a composite offering period equal to the online gameplay period plus time in channel as opposed to digitally-distributed software licenses which are delivered immediately via digital download and therefore, the offering period is estimated to be only the online gameplay period. Additionally, we consider results from prior analyses, known and expected online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors games in determining the Estimated Offering Period for future sales. We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of future update rights and online hosting to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our games are played. We recognize revenue for future update rights and online hosting performance obligations ratably on a straight-line basis over this period as there is a consistent pattern of delivery for these performance obligations. These performance obligations are generally recognized over an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for software licenses sold through retail and an estimated six-month period for digitally-distributed software licenses beginning in the month of sale. Deferred Net Revenue Because the majority of our sales transactions include future update rights and online hosting performance obligations, which are subject to a recognition period of generally six to nine months, our deferred net revenue balance is material. This balance increases from period to period by the revenue being deferred for current sales with these service obligations and is reduced by the recognition of revenue from prior sales that were deferred. Generally, revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Principal Agent Considerations We evaluate sales to end customers of our full games and related content via third-party storefronts, including digital storefronts such as Microsofts Xbox Store, Sonys PlayStation Store, Apple App Store, and Google Play Store, in order to determine whether or not we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer, which we consider in determining if revenue should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the third-party storefront. An entity is the principal if it controls a good or service before it is transferred to the end customer. Key indicators that we evaluate in determining gross versus net treatment include but are not limited to the following: the underlying contract terms and conditions between the various parties to the transaction; which party is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service to the end customer; which party has inventory risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to the end customer; and which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. Based on an evaluation of the above indicators, except as discussed below, we have determined that generally the third party is considered the principal to end customers for the sale of our full games and related content. We therefore report revenue related to these arrangements net of the fees retained by the storefront. However, for sales arrangements via Apple App Store and Google Play Store, EA is considered the principal to the end customer and thus, we report revenue on a gross basis and mobile platform fees are reported within cost of revenue. Payment Terms Substantially all of our transactions have payment terms, whether customary or on an extended basis, of less than one year; therefore, we generally do not adjust the transaction price for the effects of any potential financing components that may exist. Sales and Value-Added Taxes Revenue is recorded net of taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed at the time of the specific revenue-producing transaction between us and our customer, such as sales and value-added taxes. 38 Table of Contents Sales Returns and Price Protection Reserves Sales returns and price protection are considered variable consideration under ASC 606. We reduce revenue for estimated future returns and price protection which may occur with our distributors and retailers (channel partners). Price protection represents our practice to provide our channel partners with a credit allowance to lower their wholesale price on a particular game unit that they have not resold to customers. The amount of the price protection for permanent markdowns is the difference between the old wholesale price and the new reduced wholesale price. Credits are also given for short-term promotions that temporarily reduce the wholesale price. In certain countries we also have a practice for allowing channel partners to return older products in the channel in exchange for a credit allowance. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection reserves, we analyze the following: historical credit allowances, current sell-through of our channel partners inventory of our products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand, acceptance of our products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in customer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change and would impact the transaction price and thus, the total net revenue and related balance sheet accounts that we report. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both (1) the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and (2) the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carryback of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence and; this evaluation may involve assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we completed the Swiss intra-entity sale. The transaction did not result in a taxable gain. Under U.S. GAAP, any profit resulting from this intercompany transaction will be eliminated upon consolidation. However, the transaction resulted in a step-up of the Swiss tax-deductible basis in the transferred intellectual property rights and, accordingly, created a temporary difference between the book basis and the tax basis of such intellectual property rights. The Swiss Deferred Tax Asset and the one-time tax benefit was measured and will be periodically remeasured based on the Swiss tax rate in effect for the years the asset will be recovered. As a result, we recognized a $1.17 billion net Swiss Deferred Tax Asset, which is net of the impact of the Altera opinion and a valuation allowance. Separately, during the three months ended September 30, 2019, Switzerland enacted a new statutory tax rate. As a result of the enactment, we remeasured our Swiss deferred taxes and recognized an additional net tax benefit of $630 million through continuing operations. Every quarter, we perform a realizability analysis to evaluate whether it is more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our Swiss Deferred Tax Asset realizability analysis relies upon future taxable income as the primary source of taxable income but considers all available sources of income based on the positive and negative evidence. We give more weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. However, there is significant judgment involved in estimating future taxable income over the 20-year period over which the Swiss Deferred Tax Asset will reverse, specifically related to assumptions about expected growth rates of future Swiss taxable income. Actual results that differ materially from those estimates could have a material impact on our valuation allowance assessment. Switzerland has a seven-year carryforward period and does not permit the carry back of losses. We will not recognize any deferred taxes related to the U.S. taxes on 39 Table of Contents foreign earnings associated with this transfer due to our policy election to recognize these taxes as a period cost. We do not expect the transaction to impact our cash taxes or our operating cash flow in fiscal year 2020. As a result of our analysis as of September 30, 2019, we increased the valuation allowance from $0.1 billion to $0.2 billion due to the enactment of a new statutory tax rate in Switzerland, resulting in a net Swiss Deferred Tax Asset of $1.8 billion. There was no material change to the valuation allowance during the three months ended December 31, 2019. During the three months ended June 30, 2019, the Altera opinion was issued which requires related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation expenses. This opinion reversed the prior United States Tax Court decision, and resulted in a reduction of the Swiss Deferred Tax Asset. We also recognized a liability for approximately $90 million of unrecognized tax benefits related to U.S. uncertain tax positions. Our foreign subsidiaries will generally be subject to U.S. tax and to the extent earnings from these subsidiaries can be repatriated without a material tax cost, they will not be indefinitely reinvested. Any earnings in excess of these amounts are indefinitely reinvested. As of December 31, 2019 , we have $1.5 billion that is indefinitely reinvested, which consists of both prior and current year earnings. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective tax rate. IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The information under the subheading Other Recently Issued Accounting Standards in Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of Presentation to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 - or 53 -week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020 contains 52 weeks and ends on March 28, 2020. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 contained 52 weeks and ended on March 30, 2019. Our results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 contained 13 weeks each and ended on December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) full games sold as digital downloads or as packaged goods and designed for play on game consoles and PCs, (2) full games for mobile phones and tablets, (3) live services associated with these games, such as extra-content, (4) subscriptions that generally offer access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits, and (5) licensing our games to third parties to distribute and host our games. We provide two different measures of our Net Revenue: (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue, and (2) Net Revenue by Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue by Composition (Digital, and Packaged goods and other) than by Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue. 40 Table of Contents Net Revenue Quarterly Analysis Net Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2019 , net revenue was $1,593 million , an increase of $304 million , or 24 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was driven by a $523 million increase in revenue primarily from Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Need for Speed Heat which were launched during the three months ended December 31, 2019 . This increase was partially offset by a $219 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield franchise. Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 701 $ 552 $ 149 27 % Service and other 892 737 155 21 % Total net revenue $ 1,593 $ 1,289 $ 304 24 % Product Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2019 , Product net revenue was $701 million , primarily driven by Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, FIFA 20 and Need for Speed Heat. Product net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased $149 million , or 27 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase in revenue was driven by a $347 million increase in revenue primarily from Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Need for Speed Heat . This increase in revenue was partially offset by a $198 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield franchise. Service and Other Revenue For the three months ended December 31, 2019 , Service and other net revenue was $892 million , primarily driven by extra content sales for FIFA Ultimate Team and Apex Legends. Service and other net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased $155 million , or 21 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase in revenue was driven by a $181 million increase in revenue primarily from extra content sales for Apex Legends and the FIFA franchise. This increase in revenue was partially offset by a $26 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield, The Simpsons and UFC franchises. Supplemental Net Revenue by Composition As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally, we place a significant emphasis and focus on assessing our business performance through a review of net revenue by composition. 41 Table of Contents Our net revenue by composition for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Full game downloads $ 286 $ 247 $ 39 16 % Live services 677 480 197 41 % Mobile 161 181 (20 ) (11 )% Total Digital $ 1,124 $ 908 $ 216 24 % Packaged goods and other $ 469 $ 381 $ 88 23 % Total net revenue $ 1,593 $ 1,289 $ 304 24 % Digital Net Revenue Digital net revenue includes full-game downloads, live services, and mobile revenue. Full game download includes revenue from digital sales of full games on console and PC. Live services includes revenue from sales of extra content for console, PC, browser games, game software licensed to our third-party publishing partners who distribute our games digitally, subscriptions, and advertising. Mobile primarily includes revenue from the sale of extra content for our mobile games. It also includes revenue from the sale of full games and advertising on mobile phones and tablets. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 , digital net revenue was $1,124 million primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and The Sims 4 . Digital net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased $216 million , or 24 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase is due to a $197 million increase in live services revenue primarily driven by sales of extra content for Apex Legends and Ultimate Team, primarily FIFA Ultimate Team and Madden Ultimate Team , and a $39 million increase in full-game downloads revenue primarily driven by Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, partially offset by a $20 million decrease in mobile revenue primarily driven by lower extra content sales for Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and Madden Mobile. Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue Packaged goods net revenue includes revenue from software that is distributed physically. This includes (1) net revenue from game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, and (2) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of console platforms, personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (for example, OEM bundles). Other net revenue includes our non-software licensing revenue. For the three months ended December 31, 2019 , packaged goods and other net revenue was $469 million , primarily driven by Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, FIFA 20 , Madden NFL 20, and Need for Speed Heat . Packaged goods and other net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 increased $88 million , or 23 percent , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase in revenue was driven by a $231 million increase in revenue primarily from Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Need for Speed Heat, partially offset by a $143 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield franchise. Net Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , net revenue was $4,150 million and increased $438 million , or 12 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase in revenue was driven by a $724 million increase in revenue primarily from Apex Legends and Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order. This increase in revenue was partially offset by a $286 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield franchise. 42 Table of Contents Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 1,435 $ 1,377 $ 58 4 % Service and other 2,715 2,335 380 16 % Total net revenue $ 4,150 $ 3,712 $ 438 12 % Product Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , Product net revenue was $1,435 million , primarily driven by FIFA 20, Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, The Sims 4 and Madden NFL 20. Product net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2019 increased $58 million , or 4 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase in revenue was driven by a $370 million increase in revenue primarily from Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Need for Speed Heat. This increase in revenue was partially offset by a $312 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield franchise and the FIFA franchise, primarily due to lower retail packaged goods sales of FIFA 20 versus FIFA 19 and due to higher catalog sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2019 due to the FIFA World Cup. Service and Other Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , Service and other net revenue was $2,715 million , primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, Apex Legends and Anthem. Service and other net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2019 increased $380 million , or 16 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase in revenue was driven by a $578 million increase in revenue primarily from sales of extra content for Apex Legends , and Anthem . This increase in revenue was partially offset by a $198 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Star Wars, Need for Speed and Battlefield franchises. Supplemental Net Revenue by Composition Our net revenue by composition for the nine months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2019 2018 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Full game downloads $ 598 $ 511 $ 87 17 % Live services 1,981 1,502 479 32 % Mobile 516 632 (116 ) (18 )% Total Digital $ 3,095 $ 2,645 $ 450 17 % Packaged goods and other $ 1,055 $ 1,067 $ (12 ) (1 )% Total net revenue $ 4,150 $ 3,712 $ 438 12 % Digital Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , digital net revenue was $3,095 million primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Apex Legends and The Sims 4 . Digital net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2019 increased $450 million , or 17 percent , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase is due to a $479 million increase in live services revenue primarily driven by Apex Legends and FIFA Ultimate Team extra content sales , and an $87 million increase in full-game downloads revenue primarily driven by Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Anthem, partially offset by Battlefield V . These increases were partially offset by a $116 million decrease in mobile revenue primarily driven by lower extra content sales for Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and Madden Mobile. 43 Table of Contents Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue For the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , packaged goods and other net revenue was $1,055 million , primarily driven by FIFA 20 , Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Madden NFL 20 . Packaged goods and other net revenue remained relatively consistent in the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . Cost of Revenue Quarterly Analysis Cost of revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2018 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 216 30.8 % $ 175 31.7 % 23.4 % (0.9 )% Service and other 292 32.7 % 238 32.3 % 22.7 % 0.4 % Total cost of revenue $ 508 31.9 % $ 413 32.0 % 23.0 % (0.1 )% Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue consists of (1) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports leagues, movie studios and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) inventory costs, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs and losses on previously unrecognized licensed intellectual property commitments, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of product revenue increased by $41 million , or 23.4 percent during the three months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to royalty and inventory costs associated with Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order which was launched during the three months ended December 31, 2019 , partially offset by a decrease in inventory costs associated with Battlefield V . Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) royalty costs, (2) data center, bandwidth and server costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (3) inventory costs, (4) payment processing fees and (5) mobile platform fees associated with our mobile revenue (for transactions in which we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer). Cost of service and other revenue increased by $54 million , or 22.7 percent during the three months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase in royalty costs driven by a higher royalty rate associated with the FIFA franchise, higher sales associated with the Madden franchise, and royalty costs associated with Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order . Cost of Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Cost of revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 % of Related Net Revenue December 31, 2018 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 444 30.9 % $ 465 33.8 % (4.5 )% (2.9 )% Service and other 656 24.2 % 581 24.9 % 12.9 % (0.7 )% Total cost of revenue $ 1,100 26.5 % $ 1,046 28.2 % 5.2 % (1.7 )% 44 Table of Contents Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue decreased by $21 million , or 4.5 percent during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory costs associated with Battlefield V and the FIFA franchise, partially offset by an increase in inventory and royalty costs associated with Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order . Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue increased by $75 million , or 12.9 percent during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an increase in royalty costs driven by a higher royalty rate associated with the FIFA franchise, higher sales associated with Madden franchise, royalty costs associated with Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, and an increase in costs associated with Apex Legends and Anthem , which launched as online-only titles during fiscal year 2019. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with our digital platform, software licenses and maintenance, and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2018 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 389 24 % $ 334 26 % $ 55 16 % Nine months ended $ 1,157 28 % $ 1,035 28 % $ 122 12 % Research and development expenses increased by $55 million , or 16 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to a $41 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in variable compensation and related expenses, and a $11 million increase in stock-based compensation. Research and development expenses increased by $122 million , or 12 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to a $68 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in variable compensation and related expenses, a $35 million increase in stock-based compensation, a $11 million increase in third-party development expense, and an $8 million increase in contracted services. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2018 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 202 13 % $ 187 15 % $ 15 8 % Nine months ended $ 464 11 % $ 473 13 % $ (9 ) (2 )% Marketing and sales expenses increased by $15 million , or 8 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an $8 million increase in advertising and promotional spending on Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order and Apex Legends , and a $5 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in variable compensation and related expenses. 45 Table of Contents Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $9 million , or 2 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in advertising and promotional spending primarily on the FIFA franchise and Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, corporate functions such as finance, legal, human resources, and information technology, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2018 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 126 8 % $ 106 8 % $ 20 19 % Nine months ended $ 364 9 % $ 337 9 % $ 27 8 % General and administrative expenses increased by $20 million , or 19 percent , during the three months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to a $16 million increase in personnel-related costs which was driven by an increase in variable compensation and related expenses, and a $3 million increase in stock-based compensation. General and administrative expenses increased by $27 million , or 8 percent , during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 , as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . This increase was primarily due to an $18 million increase in personnel-related costs which was driven by an increase in variable compensation and related expenses and a $7 million increase in stock-based compensation. Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2019 Effective Tax Rate December 31, 2018 Effective Tax Rate Three months ended $ 28 7.5 % 3 1.1 % Nine months ended (1,527 ) (139.6 )% 50 5.8 % The provision for income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2020, adjusted for specific items that are required to be recognized in the period in which they are incurred. During the three months ended June 30, 2019, we completed the Swiss intra-entity sale. The transaction resulted in the recognition of a $1.17 billion net Swiss Deferred Tax Asset as of June 30, 2019. During the three months ended September 30, 2019, Switzerland enacted a new statutory tax rate. As a result of the enactment, we remeasured our Swiss deferred taxes and recognized an additional net tax benefit of $630 million through continuing operations. The new statutory tax rate in Switzerland also resulted in a $0.1 billion increase to our valuation allowance recognized against the Swiss Deferred Tax Asset. As of September 30, 2019, our Swiss Deferred Tax Asset was $1.8 billion, net of a $0.2 billion valuation allowance and a $0.4 billion reduction due to the Altera opinion. There was no material change to the valuation allowance during the three months ended December 31, 2019. The Altera opinion requires related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share stock-based compensation expenses. The Altera opinion resulted in the recognition of $90 million of unrecognized tax benefits related to U.S. uncertain tax positions during the three months ended June 30, 2019. 46 Table of Contents Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 were 7.5 percent and negative 139.6 percent , respectively, as compared to 1.1 percent and 5.8 percent , for the same periods in fiscal year 2019. Excluding the impacts of the Swiss rate change benefit, the Swiss Deferred Tax Asset, and Altera opinion, our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 would have been 15.8 percent and 14.4 percent , respectively, which was higher than the same periods in fiscal year 2019 primarily due to an increase in US taxes on foreign earnings in fiscal year 2020. When compared to the statutory rate of 21 percent , the effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 were significantly lower primarily due to the recognition of the Swiss rate change benefit, the Swiss Deferred Tax Asset and earnings realized in countries that have lower statutory tax rates, partially offset by the unrecognized tax benefits associated with the Altera opinion. 47 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of December 31, 2019 As of March 31, 2019 Increase/(Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,603 $ 4,708 $ (1,105 ) Short-term investments 1,999 737 1,262 Total $ 5,602 $ 5,445 $ 157 Percentage of total assets 50 % 61 % Nine Months Ended December 31, (In millions) 2019 2018 Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 1,299 $ 948 $ 351 Net cash used in investing activities (1,346 ) (331 ) (1,015 ) Net cash used in financing activities (1,058 ) (971 ) (87 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (17 ) 17 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (1,105 ) $ (371 ) $ (734 ) Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $351 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily driven by business performance related to the sales of Star Wars Jedi: Fallen Order, Need for Speed Heat, and Apex Legends and improved collections during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 . This increase was partially offset by marketing and advertising payments for new titles, particularly Apex Legends and Anthem and higher cash payments for income taxes. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $1,015 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily driven by a $1,477 million increase in the purchase of short-term investments. This increase was partially offset by a $420 million increase in proceeds from the sales and maturities of short-term investments during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 and the payment of $58 million in connection with mergers and acquisitions activity during the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $87 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 primarily driven by the payment of $90 million of contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Respawn and a $25 million increase in the repurchase and retirement of our common stock during the nine months ended December 31, 2019 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2018 . These increases were partially offset by a $30 million decrease in cash paid to taxing authorities in connection with withholding taxes for stock-based compensation. Short-term Investments Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of December 31, 2019 , our short-term investments had gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized gains of $2 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Senior Notes In February 2016, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes and $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes. We used the net proceeds of $989 million for general corporate purposes, including the payment of our formerly outstanding convertible notes and repurchases of our common stock. The effective interest rate is 3.94% for the 2021 Notes and 4.97% for the 2026 Notes. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. See Note 10 Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our Senior Notes, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. 48 Table of Contents Credit Facility On August 29, 2019 , we entered into a $500 million unsecured revolving credit facility (Credit Facility) with a syndicate of banks. The Credit Facility terminates on August 29, 2024 unless the maturity is extended in accordance with its terms. As of December 31, 2019 , no amounts were outstanding under the Credit Facility. See Note 10 Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to the Credit Facility, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. Financial Condition We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt repayment obligations, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to repay debt, strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2019 , approximately $4.2 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions, of which approximately $2.7 billion is available for repatriation. The remaining $1.5 billion is considered to be indefinitely reinvested. In May 2018, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the full Board of Directors, authorized a program to repurchase up to $2.4 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program expires on May 31, 2020. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase a specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2019 , we repurchased approximately 3.1 million and 9.6 million shares for approximately $305 million and $916 million , respectively, under this program. We are actively repurchasing shares under this program. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Note 12 Commitments and Contingencies to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. 49 Table of Contents OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS As of December 31, 2019 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. 50 Table of Contents