Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, including statements regarding industry prospects and future results of operations or financial position, made in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q are forward looking. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 22, 2009 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a top-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009 as filed with the SEC on May 22, 2009 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute video game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, handheld game players (such as the PlayStation Portable (PSP) and the Nintendo DS) and wireless devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone). Some of our games are based on content that we license from others ( e.g. , Madden NFL Football, Harry Potter and FIFA Soccer), and some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual property ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed, Dead Space and Pogo). Our goal is to publish titles with global mass-market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non-English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports-based products ( e.g. , Madden NFL Football, NCAA Football and FIFA Soccer), wholly-owned properties that can be successfully sequeled ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed and Battlefield) and titles based on long-lived literary and/or movie properties ( e.g. , Harry Potter). Special Note Regarding Deferred Net Revenue Many of our software products are developed with the ability to connect to the Internet. Depending on the type of product, this feature permits consumers to play against others via the Internet and/or receive additional updates or content from us. For those games that consumers can play via the Internet, we may provide a matchmaking online service which permits consumers to connect with other consumers to play against each other. In those situations where we do not separately sell this online service, we account for the sale of the software product as a bundle sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and the online service for one combined price. Through fiscal year 2007, for accounting purposes, vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) existed for the online service. Accordingly, we allocated the revenue collected from the sale of the software product between the online service offered and the software product and recognized the amounts allocated to each element separately. However, starting in fiscal year 2008, VSOE did not exist for the online service and we began to recognize all of the revenue from the sale of these bundle sales on a deferred basis over an estimated online service period, which we estimate to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. 30 Table of Contents In addition, we also provide updates or additional content (digital content) for some software products to be delivered via the Internet. For some software products, at the date of sale we had an obligation to make available for download via the Internet incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee. In those transactions, we also accounted for the sale of the software product as a bundle sale and recognized the revenue on a deferred basis over the period in which we expect to make available the incremental unspecified digital content. On a quarterly basis, the deferral amount will vary significantly depending upon the number of titles we release, the timing of their release, sales volume, returns and price protection provided for these online-enabled software products. In addition, we expense the cost of goods sold related to these transactions during the period in which the product is delivered (rather than on a deferred basis), which inherently creates volatility in our reported gross profit percentages. Financial Results Total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $1,243 million, down $411 million as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2009, the change in deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $103 million as compared to September 30, 2009, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2008, the change in deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $88 million as compared to September 30, 2008, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2008. Without these changes in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue decreased by approximately $396 million during the three months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009, was driven by FIFA 10 , Left 4 Dead 2 , and Madden NFL 10 . Net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $82 million as compared to a net loss of $641 million for the three months ended December 31, 2008. Diluted loss per share for the three months ended December 31, 2009 was $0.25 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $2.00 for the three months ended December 31, 2008. Net loss decreased during the three months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008 primarily as a result of (1) the recognition of $368 million of goodwill impairment during the three months ended December 31, 2008, (2) a $352 million decrease in our income tax provision primarily due to the discrete tax charge to establish the valuation allowance we recognized during the three months ended December 2008, and (3) a $271 million decrease in cost of goods sold. These decreases were partially offset by (1) a decrease of $411 million in net revenue and (2) an $82 million increase in restructuring charges primarily from our fiscal 2010 restructuring. During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, we used $101 million of cash in operating activities as compared to using $203 million of cash for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to decreases in personnel-related costs and external development and contracted services as part of our cost reduction initiatives, as well as a reduction in incentive-based compensation payments. Trends in Our Business Economic Environment. As a result of the national and global economic downturn, overall consumer spending has declined. Retailers globally have taken a more conservative stance in ordering game inventory. The decline in the packaged goods sector contributed to the decline in anticipated demand for our products during the 2009 holiday selling season. We remain cautious about our future sales in light of the economic environment and the impact it has had on our business. Current Generation Game Consoles. Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with Microsofts launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, and continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched their next-generation systems, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively. Unlike past cycles, we believe this current cycle may be extended, partly due to the growth of online services and content, the greater graphic and processing power of the current-generation hardware and the introduction of new peripherals. However, growth in the installed base of the Xbox 360, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii may slow down in light of the economic environment. Consequently, our industry may experience slower growth than in recent years. 31 Table of Contents Online Content and Services . In addition to selling packaged goods games, we also provide a variety of electronically delivered products and services. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available by direct electronic download through the Internet (from websites that we maintain and others that we license). We also offer electronically delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products ( e.g. , game enhancements or matchmaking services), and other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery (such as games for wireless devices, and Internet-only games and game services). Electronically delivered content and services are generally offered to consumers as subscription services, electronic downloads for a one-time fee, or on an advertising-supported basis. We have made significant investments in electronically delivered content and services, and we believe that this will become an increasingly important part of our business over time. Mobile Platforms . Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving platforms for on-the-go interactive entertainment that appeal to a broad consumer base. Our efforts in mobile interactive entertainment are focused in two areas packaged goods games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for wireless devices. We expect sales of games for wireless devices to continue to be an important part of our business worldwide. Recent Developments Acquisition of Playfish Limited . On November 9, 2009, we acquired all of the outstanding shares of Playfish Limited (Playfish) for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $308 million in cash and equity. In addition, we may be required to pay additional variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2011. This additional consideration is limited to a maximum of $100 million. Playfish is a developer of free-to-play social games that can be played on social networking platforms. Fiscal 2010 Restructuring . In the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we announced details of a restructuring plan to narrow our product portfolio to provide greater focus on titles with higher margin opportunities. Under this plan, we anticipate (1) reducing our workforce by approximately 1,350 employees, (2) consolidating or closing various facilities, (3) eliminating certain titles, and (4) incurring IT and other costs to assist in reorganizing certain activities. We expect the majority of these actions to be completed by March 31, 2010. Since the inception of this restructuring plan through December 31, 2009, we have incurred charges of approximately $96 million. During the remainder of fiscal year 2010, we anticipate incurring between $35 million and $40 million of restructuring charges, primarily consisting of facilities exit and employee-related costs, related to the fiscal 2010 restructuring. Overall, including charges incurred through December 31, 2009, we expect to incur total cash and non-cash charges between $150 million and $155 million by March 31, 2012. These charges will consist primarily of (1) employee-related costs (approximately $70 million), (2) intangible asset impairment, abandoned rights to intellectual property costs, and other costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions (approximately $35 million), (3) facilities exit costs (approximately $30 million), and (4) other reorganizational costs including IT and consulting costs (approximately $20 million). Employee Stock Option Exchange Program . On October 21, 2009, we launched a voluntary Employee Stock Option Exchange Program (Exchange Program) to permit our eligible employees to exchange outstanding eligible options for a lesser number of restricted stock units, shares of restricted stock (in Canada only), or new options (in China only) to be granted under our 2000 Equity Incentive Plan (the Equity Plan). The Exchange Program offer period began on October 21, 2009 and ended on November 18, 2009. Options eligible for the Exchange Program were those options that were granted prior to October 21, 2008, that had an exercise price per share that was greater than $28.18, which was the 52-week high trading price of our common stock measured as of the start date of the Exchange Program, as reported on The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and that upon conversion using the exchange ratio applicable for such options resulted in four or more shares of restricted stock units, shares of restricted stock or new options, as the case may be. The Exchange Program resulted in options to purchase approximately 16,561,000 shares of our common stock being exchanged for approximately 4,996,000 shares of restricted stock units, approximately 923,000 shares of restricted stock and approximately 18,000 new options. Due to the structure of the Exchange Program as a value-for-value exchange for the eligible options tendered for exchange, and certain assumptions we are required to use regarding the eligible options for accounting purposes, we will recognize an incremental accounting charge of approximately $70 million over the vesting period of the restricted stock units, restricted stock and options issued in the Exchange Program in addition to recognizing any remaining unrecognized expense for the stock options surrendered in the exchange. 32 Table of Contents Redwood Shores Headquarters Facilities Purchase . On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities comprised of approximately 660,000 square feet concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to leases, which expired in July 2009, and had previously been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Subsequent to our purchase, we classified the facilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as property and equipment, net and recognized depreciation expense for the property acquired on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, excluding the land acquired. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact . International sales are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from Europe and Asia sales accounted for approximately 43 percent of our total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and approximately 42 percent of our total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2008. We believe that in order to succeed internationally, it is important to develop content locally that is specifically directed toward local cultures and customs. Year-over-year, we estimate that foreign exchange rates had an unfavorable impact on our net revenue of approximately $53 million, or 1 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, the U.S. dollar strengthened against most major currencies, including the Euro and the British pound sterling. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may continue to have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs, handheld game players (such as the PSP and Nintendo DS), and wireless devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone). We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition , and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition . We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement. Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products that must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery. Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For online game services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. For digital downloads that do not have an online service component, delivery is considered to occur generally when the download is made available. Fixed or determinable fee. If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable. We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). 33 Table of Contents Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered, (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services, (3) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or management judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. For example, in connection with some of our packaged goods product sales, we offer an online service without an additional fee. Prior to fiscal year 2008, we were able to determine VSOE for the online service to be delivered; therefore, we were able to allocate the total price received from the combined product and online service sale between these two elements and recognize the related revenue separately. However, starting in fiscal year 2008, VSOE no longer existed for the online service to be delivered for certain platforms and all revenue from these transactions is recognized over the estimated online service period. More specifically, starting in fiscal year 2008, we began to recognize the revenue from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods on a straight-line basis over a six month period beginning in the month after shipment. Accordingly, this relatively small change (from having VSOE for the online service to no longer having VSOE) has had a significant effect on our reported results. In addition, for some software products we also provide updates or additional content (digital content) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell digital content for an additional fee; however some purchased digital content can only be accessed via the Internet ( i.e. , the consumer never takes possession of the digital content). We account for online transactions in which the consumer does not take possession of the digital content as a service transaction and, accordingly, we recognize the associated revenue over the estimated service period. In other transactions, at the date we sell the software product we have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. In these cases, we account for the sale of the software product as a multiple element arrangement and recognize the revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated life of the game. Determining whether a transaction constitutes an online service transaction or a digital content download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from an online game service is recognized as the service is rendered. If the service period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. Determining the estimated service period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. In addition, determining whether we have an implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee can be difficult. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock-balancing programs for our PC and video game system software products, which allow for the exchange of these software products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange software products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for our software products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game segment, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. For example, the risk of product returns and/or price protection for our software products may continue to increase as the PlayStation 2 console moves through its lifecycle. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online-enabled packaged goods software products change, the amount of net deferred revenue we recognize in the future would change. 34 Table of Contents Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the conclusion on the appropriate accounting. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets and acquired in-process technology, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the delayed receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to the assessments: Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets and acquired in-process technology are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount to recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of acquired assets requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our financial statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long-Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived acquisition-related intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. 35 Table of Contents We are required to perform a two-step approach to testing goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which (1) discrete financial information is available and (2) segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. We are required to perform the impairment test at least annually by applying a fair value-based test. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. To determine the fair values of the reporting units used in the first step, we use a combination of the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, and/or the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on our weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of accuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. Assessment of Impairment of Short-Term Investments, Marketable Equity Securities and Other Investments. We periodically review our short-term investments, marketable equity securities and other investments for impairment. Our short-term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available-for-sale. Unrealized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded to other comprehensive income, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold or (2) we determine that the decline in the fair value of a security to a level below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the duration that the fair value has been less than the cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, and our intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $1 million and $25 million, respectively, on our marketable equity securities. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $27 million and $57 million, respectively, on our marketable equity securities. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. Our other investments consist principally of non-voting preferred shares in two companies whose common stocks are publicly traded and are accounted for under the cost method. Under this method, these investments are recorded at cost until we determine that the fair values of the investments have fallen below their cost basis and that such declines are other-than-temporary. We monitor these investments for impairment and make appropriate reductions in the carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees. We had no impairment charges during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and during the three months ended December 31, 2008. During the nine months ended December 31, 2008, we recognized impairment charges of $10 million on our other investments. Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand and in the retail channel. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. 36 Table of Contents Stock-Based Compensation We are required to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant. The estimated fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our employee stock purchase plan is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model, which requires us to make certain assumptions about the future. Determining the estimated fair value is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables such as expected employee exercise behavior and our expected stock price volatility over the term of the award. The key assumptions for the Black-Scholes valuation calculation are: Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. Expected volatility . We use a combination of historical stock price volatility and implied volatility computed based on the price of options publicly traded on our common stock for our expected volatility assumption. Expected term . The expected term represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The expected term is determined based on historical exercise behavior, post-vesting termination patterns, options outstanding and future expected exercise behavior. Expected dividends . Changes to our underlying stock price, our assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option valuation calculation and our forfeiture rate, which is based on historical data, as well as future equity granted or assumed through acquisitions could significantly impact compensation expense to be recognized in future periods. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of product. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. These obligations are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next twelve months. As of December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2009, approximately $14 million and $37 million, respectively, of minimum guaranteed royalty obligations had been recognized. 37 Table of Contents Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of goods sold. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment based on an undiscounted cash flow basis when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts and, therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $9 million and $10 million, respectively. We recognized the $9 million impairment charge during the three months ended December 31, 2009, in connection with our fiscal 2010 restructuring. This impairment is included in restructuring charges presented in Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. We had no impairment or loss charges during the three months ended December 31, 2008. During the nine months ended December 31, 2008, we recognized an impairment charge of $5 million. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the recent deterioration of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. For example, in determining the valuation allowance we recorded at June 30, 2009, we did not include as a source of future taxable income the taxable temporary difference related to the accumulated tax depreciation on our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to leases which expired in July 2009, and had been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Therefore, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $31 million, consisting of approximately $6 million related to the loss on our lease obligation and a $25 million reduction in our valuation allowance due to the inclusion of a significant portion of the remaining taxable temporary difference as a source of future taxable income. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. The Worker, Homeownership and Business Assistance Act of 2009 (the Act) was signed into law on November 6, 2009. The Act provides that taxpayers may elect to increase the carry back period for tax losses incurred in a taxable year beginning or ending in either 2008 or 2009. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, we elected to increase the carry back period for tax losses incurred in fiscal year 2009. This election resulted in a reduction in the valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets due to an increase in the sources of taxable income from the extended carry back period. As a result, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $28 million in the three months ended December 31, 2009 for the reduction in the valuation allowance. 38 Table of Contents In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ending or ended, as the case may be, March 31, 2010 and 2009 contain 53 and 52 weeks, respectively, and ends or ended, as the case may be, on April 3, 2010 and March 28, 2009, respectively. Our results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 contain 13 weeks and ended on January 2, 2010 and December 27, 2008, respectively. Our results of operations for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 contain 40 and 39 weeks, respectively, and ended on January 2, 2010 and December 27, 2008, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods and designed for play on hardware consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP and Nintendo DS), (2) video games for wireless devices (such as cellular phones and smart phones including the Apple iPhone), (3) interactive online-enabled packaged goods, digital content, and online services associated with these games, (4) services in connection with some of our online games, (5) programming third-party web sites with our game content, (6) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (7) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, we recognized total net revenue of $1,243 million and $2,675 million, respectively. Our total net revenue during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 includes $622 million and $1,124 million, respectively, recognized from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content that either (1) we were not able to objectively determine the fair value (as defined by U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles for software sales) of the online service that we provided in connection with the sale or (2) we had an obligation to deliver incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. When we refer to deferral of net revenue in this Net Revenue section, we mean the deferral of (1) the total net revenue from bundle sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and PC digital downloads for which either we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provide in connection with the sale of the software or we have an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content, (2) revenue from certain packaged goods sales of massively-multiplayer online role-playing games, and (3) revenue from the sale of certain incremental content associated with our core subscription services that can only be played online, which are types of micro-transactions. The change in deferred net revenue decreased our reported net revenue $103 million and $634 million during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, respectively. The change in deferred net revenue decreased our reported net revenue $88 million and $125 million during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2008, respectively. 39 Table of Contents From a geographical perspective, our total net revenue for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, Decrease % Change 2009 2008 North America $ 693 56 % $ 957 58 % $ (264 ) (28 %) Europe 489 39 % 623 38 % (134 ) (22 %) Asia 61 5 % 74 4 % (13 ) (18 %) International 550 44 % 697 42 % (147 ) (21 %) Total Net Revenue $ 1,243 100 % $ 1,654 100 % $ (411 ) (25 %) Nine Months Ended December 31, Decrease % Change 2009 2008 North America $ 1,515 57 % $ 1,941 58 % $ (426 ) (22 %) Europe 1,015 38 % 1,253 37 % (238 ) (19 %) Asia 145 5 % 158 5 % (13 ) (8 %) International 1,160 43 % 1,411 42 % (251 ) (18 %) Total Net Revenue $ 2,675 100 % $ 3,352 100 % $ (677 ) (20 %) The overall change in deferred net revenue for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (49 ) $ (58 ) $ 9 Xbox 360 (29 ) (29 ) Nintendo DS (12 ) (12 ) PC (8 ) 21 (29 ) PSP (3 ) (34 ) 31 Wii (1 ) (27 ) 26 PlayStation 2 11 (11 ) Other (1 ) (1 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (103 ) $ (88 ) $ (15 ) Nine Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 Xbox 360 $ (281 ) $ $ (281 ) PLAYSTATION 3 (207 ) (48 ) (159 ) PC (99 ) (68 ) (31 ) Wii (22 ) (35 ) 13 Nintendo DS (12 ) (12 ) PlayStation 2 (7 ) 27 (34 ) PSP (6 ) (6 ) Other (1 ) 1 Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (634 ) $ (125 ) $ (509 ) 40 Table of Contents North America For the three months ended December 31, 2009, net revenue in North America was $693 million, driven by Left 4 Dead 2, Madden NFL 10, and Rock Band 2 . Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 decreased $264 million, or 28 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. From an operational perspective, the decrease in net revenue was driven by (1) a $73 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, (2) a $63 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3, (3) a $52 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, and (4) a $47 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii. The change in deferral of net revenue decreased our reported net revenue by $87 million during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to an increase in our reported net revenue of $47 million for the three months ended December 31, 2008. The change in deferred net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 for North America was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (38 ) $ 21 $ (59 ) Xbox 360 (35 ) 1 (36 ) Wii (6 ) (15 ) 9 PSP (3 ) (7 ) 4 Nintendo DS (4 ) (4 ) PC 39 (39 ) PlayStation 2 9 (9 ) Other (1 ) (1 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (87 ) $ 47 $ (134 ) For the nine months ended December 31, 2009, net revenue in North America was $1,515 million, driven by The Beatles : Rock Band, Madden NFL 10 and Left 4 Dead 2 . Net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 decreased $426 million, or 22 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. From an operational perspective, the decrease in net revenue was driven by (1) a $203 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, (2) a $154 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, and (3) a $60 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3. The change in deferral of net revenue decreased our reported net revenue by $352 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue of $55 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The change in deferred net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 for North America was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 Xbox 360 $ (187 ) $ $ (187 ) PLAYSTATION 3 (106 ) (20 ) (86 ) PC (31 ) (26 ) (5 ) Wii (13 ) (22 ) 9 PlayStation 2 (8 ) 8 (16 ) PSP (3 ) 6 (9 ) Other (4 ) (1 ) (3 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (352 ) $ (55 ) $ (297 ) 41 Table of Contents We expect net revenue for North America to decrease during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to an expected increase in deferred net revenue related to our online-enabled packaged goods and digital content. Europe For the three months ended December 31, 2009, net revenue in Europe was $489 million, driven by FIFA 10, The Sims 3, and Need for Speed Shift . Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 decreased $134 million, or 22 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. From an operational perspective the decrease in net revenue was driven by (1) a $57 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, (2) a $45 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, and (3) a $39 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS. The change in deferral of net revenue decreased our reported net revenue by $8 million during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue of $123 million for the three months ended December 31, 2008. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the British pound sterling) decreased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $19 million, or 3 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue decreased by approximately $115 million, or 19 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. The change in deferred net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 for Europe was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 PC $ (8 ) $ (15 ) $ 7 Nintendo DS (7 ) (7 ) PLAYSTATION 3 (6 ) (71 ) 65 PSP 1 (26 ) 27 Wii 4 (12 ) 16 Xbox 360 9 (1 ) 10 Other (1 ) 2 (3 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (8 ) $ (123 ) $ 115 For the nine months ended December 31, 2009, net revenue in Europe was $1,015 million, driven by FIFA 10, The Sims 3, and FIFA 09 . Net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 decreased $238 million, or 19 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. From an operational perspective the decrease in net revenue was driven by (1) a $79 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, (2) a $73 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, (3) a $54 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS, and (4) a $28 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PC. The change in deferral of net revenue decreased our reported net revenue by $260 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue of $65 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the British pound sterling) decreased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $50 million, or 4 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue decreased by approximately $188 million, or 15 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. 42 Table of Contents The change in deferred net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 for Europe was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (92 ) $ (26 ) $ (66 ) Xbox 360 (85 ) (85 ) PC (66 ) (35 ) (31 ) Wii (8 ) (13 ) 5 Nintendo DS (7 ) (1 ) (6 ) PSP (3 ) (7 ) 4 PlayStation 2 1 17 (16 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (260 ) $ (65 ) $ (195 ) We expect net revenue for Europe to decrease during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to an expected increase in deferred net revenue related to our online-enabled packaged goods and digital content. Asia For the three months ended December 31, 2009, net revenue in Asia was $61 million, driven by FIFA 10, Left 4 Dead 2, and The Sims 3 . Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 decreased $13 million, or 18 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. From an operational perspective, the decrease in net revenue was driven by (1) a $5 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, (2) a $3 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, (3) a $2 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3, and (4) a $2 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS. The change in deferral of net revenue decreased our reported net revenue by $8 million during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue of $12 million for the three months ended December 31, 2008. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (particularly the Australian dollar) increased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $3 million, or 4 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue decreased by approximately $16 million, or 22 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. The change in deferred net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 for Asia was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (5 ) $ (8 ) $ 3 Xbox 360 (3 ) (3 ) Other (4 ) 4 Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (8 ) $ (12 ) $ 4 For the nine months ended December 31, 2009, net revenue in Asia was $145 million, driven by The Sims 3 , FIFA 10 , and FIFA Online 2 . Net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 decreased $13 million, or 8 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. From an operational perspective, the decrease in net revenue was driven by (1) an $8 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PlayStation 2, (2) a $5 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Xbox 360, (3) a $5 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the Nintendo DS, and (4) a $4 million decrease in net revenue from sales of titles for the PLAYSTATION 3. These decreases were partially offset by a $10 million increase in net revenue from sales of titles for the Wii. 43 Table of Contents The change in deferral of net revenue decreased our reported net revenue by $22 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to a decrease in our reported net revenue of $5 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (particularly the Australian dollar) decreased reported net revenue, including the foreign exchange impact from deferred net revenue, by approximately $3 million, or 2 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from net revenue, we estimate that net revenue decreased by approximately $10 million, or 6 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The change in deferred net revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 for Asia was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) 2009 2008 PLAYSTATION 3 $ (9 ) $ (2 ) $ (7 ) Xbox 360 (9 ) (9 ) PC (2 ) (7 ) 5 Other (2 ) 4 (6 ) Total Impact on Net Revenue $ (22 ) $ (5 ) $ (17 ) We expect net revenue for Asia to decrease during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 due to an expected increase in deferred net revenue related to our online-enabled packaged goods and digital content. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged-goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post-launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones), whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third-party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of server costs. Cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Net Revenue Three months ended $ 654 52.6 % $ 925 55.9 % (29.3 %) (3.3 %) Nine months ended $ 1,568 58.6 % $ 1,778 53.0 % (11.8 %) 5.6 % During the three months ended December 31, 2009, cost of goods sold decreased by 3.3 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to (1) lower co-publishing and distribution royalty costs resulting from sales of higher margin titles, which positively impacted cost of goods sold as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 2.5 percent and (2) a greater percentage of net revenue from EA studio products, which have a higher margin than our co-publishing and distribution products, which positively impacted cost of goods sold as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 2.3 percent. This decrease was partially offset by a $15 million unfavorable change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. 44 Table of Contents During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, cost of goods sold increased by 5.6 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. This increase was primarily due to a $509 million unfavorable change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. Overall, we estimate the unfavorable change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content negatively impacted cost of goods sold as a percent of total net revenue by 9.3 percentage points. The overall increase in cost of goods sold as a percentage of net revenue was partially mitigated by a greater percentage of net revenue from EA studio products, which have a higher margin than our co-publishing and distribution products, which positively impacted cost of goods sold as a percentage of total revenue by approximately 2.4 percent. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 208 17 % $ 250 15 % $ (42 ) (17 %) Nine months ended $ 559 21 % $ 575 17 % $ (16 ) (3 %) Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $42 million, or 17 percent, during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a $38 million decrease in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses resulting from higher spending in the prior year to support the launch of new franchises and for promoting established franchises. Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $16 million, or 3 percent, during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease of $18 million in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from a decrease in headcount resulting from our cost reduction initiatives. We expect marketing and sales expenses to increase in absolute dollars during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to an increase in marketing and advertising expenses, partially offset by a decrease in personnel-related costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 84 7 % $ 82 5 % $ 2 2 % Nine months ended $ 241 9 % $ 258 8 % $ (17 ) (7 %) General and administrative expenses decreased by $17 million, or 7 percent, during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to (1) a decrease of $11 million in additional personal-related costs resulting from our cost reduction initiatives, (2) a decrease of $10 million in stock-based compensation expense, and (3) an $8 million decrease in bad debt expense. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in facilities related expenses primarily due to a $14 million loss on our lease obligation related to our Redwood Shores headquarters facility. 45 Table of Contents We expect general and administrative expenses to decrease in absolute dollars during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online business include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 290 23 % $ 299 18 % $ (9 ) (3 %) Nine months ended $ 918 34 % $ 1,027 31 % $ (109 ) (11 %) Research and development expenses decreased by $9 million, or 3 percent, during the three months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily due to (1) a decrease of $21 million in additional personnel-related costs primarily resulting from our cost reduction initiatives and (2) a decrease of $14 million in external development and contracted services. These decreases were partially offset by a $25 million increase in incentive-based compensation expense. Research and development expenses decreased by $109 million, or 11 percent, during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The decrease was primarily due to (1) a decrease of $75 million in additional personnel-related costs primarily resulting from our cost reduction initiatives, (2) a decrease of $30 million in external development and contracted services, and (3) a decrease of $15 million in stock-based compensation expense. These decreases were partially offset by a $10 million increase in incentive-based compensation expense. We expect research and development expenses to decrease in absolute dollars during fiscal year 2010 as compared to fiscal year 2009 primarily due to a decrease in personnel-related costs. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 14 1 % $ 15 1 % $ (1 ) (7 %) Nine months ended $ 38 1 % $ 46 1 % $ (8 ) (17 %) Amortization of intangibles decreased $8 million, or 17 percent, during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to a change in the estimated useful lives of certain intangibles. Certain Abandoned Acquisition-Related Costs Certain abandoned acquisition-related costs consist of costs we incurred in connection with the abandoned acquisition of Take-Two. On August 18, 2008, we allowed our tender offer for Take-Two shares to expire and on September 14, 2008, we announced that we had terminated discussions with Take-Two. As a result, during the nine months ended December 31, 2008, we recognized $21 million in related costs consisting of legal, banking and other consulting fees. 46 Table of Contents Goodwill Impairment Adverse economic conditions, including the decline in our market capitalization and our expected financial performance at the time, indicated that a potential impairment of goodwill existed during the three months ended December 31, 2008. As a result, we performed goodwill impairment tests for our reporting units. As a result of the goodwill impairment analysis, we determined that our EA Mobile reporting units goodwill was impaired. Substantially all of our goodwill associated with our EA Mobile reporting unit was derived from our acquisition of JAMDAT Mobile Inc. in February 2006. During the three months ended December 31, 2008, we recognized a goodwill impairment charge of $368 million related to our EA Mobile reporting unit. There were no indicators of impairment to our goodwill during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 100 8 % $ 18 1 % $ 82 456 % Nine months ended $ 120 4 % $ 41 1 % $ 79 193 % Fiscal 2010 Restructuring In the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we announced details of a restructuring plan to narrow our product portfolio to provide greater focus on titles with higher margin opportunities. Under this plan, we anticipate (1) reducing our workforce by approximately 1,350 employees, (2) consolidating or closing various facilities, (3) eliminating certain titles, and (4) incurring IT and other costs to assist in reorganizing certain activities. We expect the majority of these actions to be completed by March 31, 2010. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred $96 million of restructuring charges of which (1) $63 million were for employee-related expenses, (2) $27 million related to abandoned rights to intellectual property, intangible asset impairment costs, and other costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and (3) $6 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities. During the remainder of fiscal year 2010, we anticipate incurring between $35 million and $40 million of restructuring charges, primarily consisting of facilities exit and employee-related costs, related to the fiscal 2010 restructuring. Overall, including charges incurred through December 31, 2009, we expect to incur total cash and non-cash charges between $150 million and $155 million by March 31, 2012. These charges will consist primarily of (1) employee-related costs (approximately $70 million), (2) intangible asset impairment, abandoned rights to intellectual property costs, and other costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions (approximately $35 million), (3) facilities exit costs (approximately $30 million), and (4) other reorganizational costs including IT and consulting costs (approximately $20 million). Fiscal 2009 Restructuring During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred $14 million of restructuring charges, primarily for facilities-related expenses. During the nine months ended December 31, 2008, we incurred approximately $13 million of charges in connection with our fiscal 2009 restructuring, of which $10 million was for employee-related expenses. After December 31, 2009, we anticipate incurring less than $1 million of additional restructuring charges under this plan. Fiscal 2008 Reorganization During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred $10 million of restructuring charges, primarily related to other expenses, including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. During the nine months ended December 31, 2008, we incurred approximately $25 million of reorganization charges, of which $16 million was related to facilities-related expenses and $9 million related to other expenses, including contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. We do not expect to incur any additional charges under this plan. 47 Table of Contents Losses on Strategic Investments Losses on strategic investments for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ (1 ) $ (27 ) (2 %) $ 26 96 % Nine months ended $ (25 ) (1 %) $ (67 ) (2 %) $ 42 63 % During the three months ended December 31, 2009, losses on strategic investments decreased by $26 million, or 96 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2008. We recognized $1 million and $27 million impairment charges on our investment in The9 during the three months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, losses on strategic investments decreased by $42 million, or 63 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008. We recognized a $25 million impairment charge on our investment in The9 during the nine months ended December 31, 2009. During the nine months ended December 31, 2008, we recognized (1) $40 million of impairment charges on our investments in Neowizs common and preferred shares and (2) a $27 million impairment charge on our investment in The9. Interest and Other Income (Expense), Net Interest and other income (expense), net, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2008 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ (2 ) $ 14 1 % $ (16 ) (114 %) Nine months ended $ 8 $ 36 1 % $ (28 ) (78 %) During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, interest and other income, net, decreased by $16 million, or 114 percent, and $28 million, or 78 percent, respectively, as compared to the three and nine months ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to a decrease in interest income as a result of lower cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances. Income Taxes Income tax expense (benefit) for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2009 Effective Tax Rate December 31, 2008 Effective Tax Rate % Change Three months ended $ (28 ) (24.9 %) $ 324 N/A (109 %) Nine months ended $ (79 ) (10.0 %) $ 250 N/A (132 %) The tax benefit reported for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2010, and also includes certain discrete tax charges recorded during the period. Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 were tax benefits of 24.9 percent and 10.0 percent, respectively. The effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2008 are not meaningful due to the discrete tax charge of $244 million to establish the deferred tax valuation allowance. The effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 differ from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized, non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit, partially offset by benefits related to the resolution of examinations by taxing authorities and reductions in the valuation allowance on U.S. deferred tax assets. The effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009 differ from the same periods in fiscal year 2009 primarily due to the discrete tax charge to establish the valuation allowance in fiscal year 2009, tax charges incurred in fiscal year 2009 related to our integration of VG Holding Corp., and tax benefits related to the resolution of tax examinations. 48 Table of Contents Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2010 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre-tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. For example, in determining the valuation allowance we recorded at June 30, 2009, we did not include as a source of future taxable income the taxable temporary difference related to the accumulated tax depreciation on our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to leases which expired in July 2009, and had been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Therefore, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $31 million, consisting of approximately $6 million related to the loss on our lease obligation and a $25 million reduction in our valuation allowance due to the inclusion of a significant portion of the remaining taxable temporary difference as a source of future taxable income. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements . This guidance modifies the fair value requirements of FASB ASC subtopic 605-25, Revenue Recognition-Multiple Element Arrangements , by allowing the use of the best estimate of selling price in addition to vendor specific objective evidence and third-party evidence for determining the selling price of a deliverable. This guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, which is based on: (a) vendor-specific objective evidence, (b) third-party evidence, or (c) estimates. In addition, the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration is no longer permitted. ASU 2009-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009-13 to have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements . This guidance modifies the scope of FASB ASC subtopic 965-605, Software-Revenue Recognition , to exclude from its requirements non-software components of tangible products and software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non-software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality. ASU 2009-14 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009-14 to have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of December 31, 2009 As of March 31, 2009 Decrease Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,114 $ 1,621 $ (507 ) Short-term investments 352 534 (182 ) Marketable equity securities 318 365 (47 ) Total $ 1,784 $ 2,520 $ (736 ) Percentage of total assets 36 % 54 % Nine Months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) (In millions) 2009 2008 Cash used in operating activities $ (101 ) $ (203 ) $ 102 Cash provided by (used in) investing activities (471 ) 3 (474 ) Cash provided by financing activities 38 77 (39 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 27 (51 ) 78 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (507 ) $ (174 ) $ (333 ) Changes in Cash Flow During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, we used $101 million of cash in operating activities as compared to using $203 million of cash for the nine months ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in cash used in operating activities for the nine months ended December 31, 2009 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2008 was primarily due to decreases in personnel-related costs and external development and contracted services as part of our cost reduction initiatives, as well as a reduction in incentive-based compensation payments. For the nine months ended December 31, 2009, we generated $657 million of cash proceeds from maturities and sales of short-term investments. Our primary use of cash in non-operating activities consisted of (1) $477 million used to purchase short-term investments, (2) $283 million in capital expenditures, of which $233 million was used to purchase our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities, (3) $278 million used for acquisitions, of which $275 million, net of cash acquired, was used to fund our acquisition of Playfish, and (4) a $100 million increase in acquisition-related restricted cash for contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Playfish. Short-term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of December 31, 2009, our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of $2 million, or 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. The fair value of our marketable equity securities decreased to $318 million as of December 31, 2009 from $365 million as of March 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily due to (1) impairment charges of $25 million recognized on our investment in The9, (2) an $11 million decrease in the unrealized gains on our investments, and (3) an $11 million decrease in the cost basis of our investment in The9 resulting from the sale of a portion of this investment. 50 Table of Contents Receivables, Net Our gross accounts receivable balances were $762 million and $333 million as of December 31, 2009 and March 31, 2009, respectively. The increase in our accounts receivable balance was primarily due to higher sales volumes in the third quarter of fiscal year 2010 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, which was expected as we traditionally have higher sales during our third quarter as compared to our fourth quarter. We expect our accounts receivable balance to decrease during the three months ending March 31, 2010 resulting from our collections and our lower seasonal sales volume. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts increased in absolute dollars from $217 million as of March 31, 2009 to $267 million as of December 31, 2009. As a percentage of trailing nine month net revenue, reserves increased from 6 percent as of March 31, 2009, to 10 percent as of December 31, 2009. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts. Inventories Inventories decreased to $144 million as of December 31, 2009 from $217 million as of March 31, 2009, primarily as a result of lower Rock Band inventory. Other Current Assets and Other Assets Other current assets increased to $264 million as of December 31, 2009, from $216 million as of March 31, 2009, while other assets increased to $221 million as of December 31, 2009 from $115 million as of March 31, 2009. Other current assets and other assets combined, increased by $154 million primarily due to (1) a $100 million increase in acquisition-related restricted cash for contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Playfish, (2) a $25 million increase in prepaid income taxes, and (3) a $21 million increase in other receivable balances. Accounts Payable Accounts payable increased to $186 million as of December 31, 2009, from $152 million as of March 31, 2009, primarily due to higher inventory purchases in conjunction with the seasonality of our business. Accrued and Other Current Liabilities Our accrued and other current liabilities increased to $790 million as of December 31, 2009 from $723 million as of March 31, 2009. The $67 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $56 million increase in marketing and advertising accruals to support our current year releases, (2) a $20 million increase in Value-Added Tax payables, and (3) an $18 million increase in accrued restructuring primarily from our fiscal 2010 restructuring. These increases were partially offset by a $24 million decrease in accrued royalties. Other Liabilities Our other liabilities increased to $139 million as of December 31, 2009 from $98 million as of March 31, 2009. The $41 million increase was primarily due to the $64 million of contingent consideration in connection with our acquisition of Playfish. This increase was partially offset by a $25 million decrease in our minimum guaranteed royalty payments. Deferred Income Taxes, Net Our net deferred income tax asset position increased by $48 million as of December 31, 2009 as compared to March 31, 2009, primarily due to (1) a $22 million increase related to the acquisition of Playfish, (2) a $42 million increase as a result of a decrease in the valuation allowance on domestic deferred tax assets, and (3) a decrease of $21 million to net certain deferred tax assets with directly associated unrecognized benefits. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next twelve months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and, potentially, future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. 51 Table of Contents The loan financing arrangements supporting our Redwood City headquarters leases, described in the Off-Balance Sheet Commitments section below, expired in July 2009. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities comprised of approximately 660,000 square feet concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to leases, which expired in July 2009, and had previously been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. As of December 31, 2009, approximately $966 million of our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and marketable equity securities was domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non-employee software developers (independent artists or third-party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, and FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited) (professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR and Tiger Woods (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter); Red Bear Inc. (John Madden); National Football League Properties and PLAYERS Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football and basketball); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (a wide array of Hasbro intellectual properties); and the Estate of Robert Ludlum (Robert Ludlum novels and films). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. 52 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our minimum contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2009, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Contractual Obligations Commercial Commitments Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases (a) Developer/ Licensor Commitments (b) Marketing Other Purchase Obligations Letter of Credit, Bank and Other Guarantees Total 2010 (remaining three months) $ 13 $ 20 $ 16 $ $ 2 $ 51 2011 45 275 71 1 392 2012 34 245 46 325 2013 28 147 41 216 2014 20 12 23 55 Thereafter 38 620 131 789 Total $ 178 $ 1,319 $ 328 $ 1 $ 2 $ 1,828 (a) See discussion on operating leases in the Off-Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. Lease commitments have not been reduced by minimum sub-lease rentals for unutilized office space resulting from our reorganization activities of approximately $10 million due in the future under non-cancelable sub-leases. (b) Developer/licensor commitments include $14 million of commitments to developers or licensors that have been recorded in current and long-term liabilities and a corresponding amount in current and long-term assets in our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2009 because payment is not contingent upon performance by the developer or licensor. The amounts represented in the table above reflect our minimum cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition to what is included in the table above, as of December 31, 2009, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $312 million, of which approximately $31 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. In connection with our acquisition of Playfish on November 9, 2009, we may be required to pay additional variable cash consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones through December 31, 2011. The additional consideration is limited to a maximum of $100 million. OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments As of December 31, 2009, we leased certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities comprised of approximately 660,000 square feet concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to leases, which expired in July 2009, and had previously been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Subsequent to our purchase, we classified the facilities on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet as property and equipment, net and recognized depreciation expense for the property acquired on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives, excluding the land acquired. 53 Table of Contents