Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Quarterly Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 23, 2018 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers provides important context for our results for the three months ended June 30, 2018 , as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Risk Factors, and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 as filed with the SEC on May 23, 2018 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We are a global leader in digital interactive entertainment, with a mission to inspire the world to play. We develop, market, publish and deliver games and services that can be played on a variety of platforms, including game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. In our games and services, we use brands that we either wholly own (such as Battlefield, Mass Effect, The Sims and Plants v. Zombies), or license from others (such as FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars). We develop and publish games and services across diverse genres such as sports, first-person shooter, action, role-playing and simulation. We believe that the breadth and depth of our portfolio gives us the opportunity to engage an increasing number of players across more platforms and geographies and through more business models. Financial Results We adopted the New Revenue Standard on April 1, 2018, the beginning of fiscal year 2019, using the modified retrospective method. The comparative information for periods prior to April 1, 2018 has not been restated. For comparability, Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of Presentation of part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q includes our pro-forma financial results under the Old Revenue Standard for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 . Our key financial results for our fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 were as follows: Total net revenue was $1,137 million , down 22 percent year-over-year. Under the Old Revenue Standard, total net revenue would have been $1,416 million , down 2 percent year-over-year. Digital net revenue was $957 million , up 9 percent year-over-year. Under the Old Revenue Standard, digital net revenue would have been $931 million, up 6 percent year-over-year. Gross margin was 81.1 percent , down 8.3 percentage points year-over-year. Under the Old Revenue Standard, gross margin would have been 88.3 percent, down 1.1 percentage points year-over-year. Operating expenses were $622 million , up 13 percent year-over-year. Net income was $293 million with diluted earnings per share of $0.95 . Under the Old Revenue Standard, net income would have been $583 million with diluted earnings per share of $1.88 . Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $4,971 million . 36 Table of Contents From time to time, we make comparisons of current periods to prior periods with reference to constant currency. For the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2018 , foreign currency exchange rates did not have a material impact on our net revenue and operating expenses. Trends in Our Business Digital Business. Players increasingly purchase our games as digital downloads, as opposed to purchasing physical discs, and engage with the live services we provide on an ongoing basis. Our live services provide additional depth and engagement opportunities for our players and include microtransactions, extra content, subscriptions, and esports. Our net revenue attributable to live services comprised 40 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2018 and we expect that live services net revenue will continue to be material to our business. Our most popular live service is the Ultimate Team mode associated with our sports franchises. Ultimate Team allows players to collect and trade current and former professional players in order to build and compete as a personalized team. Net revenue from Ultimate Team represented approximately 21 percent of our total net revenue during fiscal year 2018, a substantial portion of which was derived from FIFA Ultimate Team. Our digital transformation is also creating opportunities in platforms, business models and the way in which players engage with our games and services. For example, we have leveraged brands and assets from franchises typically associated with consoles and traditional PC gaming, such as FIFA, Madden NFL, The Sims, SimCity and Star Wars, to create mobile and PC games that are monetized through live services associated with the game. We also provide our EA Access, Origin Access and Origin Access Premier subscription services, which offer access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits, typically for a monthly or annual fee. We significantly increased our digital net revenue from $2,409 million in fiscal year 2016 to $2,874 million in fiscal year 2017 and $3,450 million during fiscal year 2018. We expect this portion of our business to continue to grow through fiscal year 2019 and beyond as we continue to focus on developing and monetizing products and services that can be delivered digitally. Technological Infrastructure . As our digital business has grown, our games and services increasingly depend on the reliability, availability and security of our technological infrastructure. We are investing and expect to continue to invest in technology, hardware and software to support our games and services, including with respect to security protections. Our industry is prone to, and our systems and networks are subject to, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, malicious software programs, and other information security incidents that seek to exploit, disable, damage, disrupt or gain access to our networks, our products and services, supporting technological infrastructure, intellectual property and other assets. We expect these threats to our systems and networks to continue. Player Network . We have made, and expect to continue to make, investments that strengthen our player network, which connects our players to each other and to the games they love. We are adopting consistent, cross-company methodologies to better understand our players needs and will continue to invest in technology that enables us to build personalized player relationships that can last for years instead of days or weeks by connecting our players to us and to each other. This connection allows us to market and deliver content and services for popular franchises like FIFA, Battlefield and Star Wars to our players more efficiently. That same foundation also enables new player-centric ways to discover and try new games and experiences, such as our subscription-based EA Access, Origin Access and Origin Access Premier services. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games. In all major segments of our industry, we see a large portion of games sales concentrated on the most popular titles. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenue historically has been derived from games based on a few popular franchises, several of which we have released on an annual or bi-annual basis. In particular, we have historically derived a significant portion of our net revenue from our largest and most popular game, FIFA, the annualized version of which is consistently one of the best-selling games in the marketplace. Mobile and PC Free-to-Download Games. The global adoption of mobile devices and a business model for those devices that allows consumers to try new games with no up-front cost, and that are monetized through the live service associated with the game, has led to significant growth in the mobile gaming industry. We expect this growth to continue during our 2019 fiscal year. Likewise, the wide consumer acceptance of free-to-download, live service-based PC games played over the Internet has broadened our consumer base. We expect revenue generated from mobile and PC free-to-download games to remain an important part of our business. Recurring Revenue Sources. Our business model includes revenue that we deem recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized titles (such as FIFA and Madden NFL) and associated live services, subscriptions and our ongoing mobile business. We have been able to forecast revenue from these areas of our business with greater relative confidence than for new games, services and business models. As we continue to leverage the digital transformation in our industry and incorporate new 37 Table of Contents content models and modalities of play into our games, our goal is to continue to look for opportunities to expand the recurring portion of our business. Net Bookings . In order to improve transparency into our business, we disclose an operating performance metric, net bookings. Net bookings is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period. Net bookings is calculated by adding total net revenue to the change in deferred net revenue for online-enabled games, and, for periods after the fourth quarter of fiscal 2018, mobile platform fees. The following is a calculation of our total net bookings for the periods presented: Three Months Ended June 30, (In millions) 2018 2017 Total net revenue $ 1,137 $ 1,449 Change in deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) (339 ) (674 ) Mobile platform fees (49 ) Net bookings $ 749 $ 775 Net bookings were $749 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018 driven by sales related to FIFA Ultimate Team and The Sims 4. Net bookings decreased $26 million or 3 percent as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 due primarily to sales of Mass Effect: Andromeda captured during three months ended June 30, 2017, partially offset by net bookings associated with FIFA Online 4 , The Sims 4, and A Way Out during the three months ended June 30, 2018. Digital net bookings were $693 million for the three months ended June 30, 2018, an increase of $12 million or 2 percent as compared to three months ended June 30, 2017, driven by sales of FIFA Online 4 , The Sims 4 , and A Way Out . The increase in digital net bookings was driven by live services which grew $30 million or 7 percent year-over-year, primarily due to FIFA Online 4 and The Sims 4. This increase was partially offset by a decrease of $15 million or 14 percent in our full game PC and console downloads due to net bookings associated with Mass Effect: Andromeda captured during three months ended June 30, 2017, and a decrease of $3 million or 2 percent in our mobile business due to slight declines in older titles, partially offset by FIFA Mobile in Asia. Recent Developments Stock Repurchase Program. In May 2018, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the full Board of Directors, authorized a program to repurchase up to $2.4 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program supersedes and replaces the May 2017 program, and expires on May 31, 2020. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase a specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 , we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares for approximately $224 million under this program. We are actively repurchasing shares under this program. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. For a complete discussion of our critical accounting policies and estimates with respect to revenue recognition for revenue transactions occurring prior to April 1, 2018, which were accounted for under ASC 605, Revenue Recognition , refer to Part II, Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations under the subheading Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ended March 31, 2018, filed with the SEC on May 23, 2018. With respect to revenue transactions occurring on April 1, 2018 and onward, our revenue recognition accounting policy is set forth below and follows ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. 38 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition We derive revenue principally from sales of our games, and related extra-content and services that can be played by customers on a variety of platforms which include game consoles, PCs, mobile phones and tablets. Our product and service offerings include, but are not limited to, the following: full games with both online and offline functionality (Games with Services), which generally includes (1) the initial game delivered digitally or via physical disc at the time of sale and typically provide access to offline core game content (software license); (2) updates on a when-and-if-available basis, such as software patches or updates, and/or additional free content to be delivered in the future (future update rights); and (3) a hosted connection for online playability (online hosting); full games with online-only functionality which require an Internet connection to access all gameplay and functionality (Online-Hosted Service Games); extra content related to Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games which provides access to additional in-game content; subscriptions, such as Origin Access and EA Access, that generally offers access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits typically for a recurring monthly or annual fee; and licensing our games to third parties to distribute and host our games. Effective April 1, 2018, we evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers . We evaluate and recognize revenue by: identifying the contract(s) with the customer; identifying the performance obligations in the contract; determining the transaction price; allocating the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract; and recognizing revenue as each performance obligation is satisfied through the transfer of a promised good or service to a customer (i.e., transfer of control). Online-Enabled Games Games with Services. Our sales of Games with Services are evaluated to determine whether the software license, future update rights and the online hosting are distinct and separable. Sales of Games with Services are generally determined to have three distinct performance obligations: software license, future update rights, and the online hosting. Since we do not sell the performance obligations on a stand-alone basis, we consider market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate the stand-alone selling price for each performance obligation. We recognize revenue from these arrangements upon transfer of control for each performance obligation. For the portion of the transaction price allocated to the software license, revenue is recognized when control of the license has been transferred to the customer. For the portion of the transaction price allocated to the future update rights and the online hosting, revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Online-Hosted Service Games. Sales of our Online-Hosted Service Games are determined to have one distinct performance obligation: the online hosting. We recognize revenue from these arrangements as the service is provided. Extra Content. Revenue received from sales of downloadable content are derived primarily from the sale of virtual currencies and digital in-game content to our customers to enhance their gameplay experience. Sales of extra content are accounted for in a manner consistent with the treatment for our Games with Services and Online-Hosted Service Games as discussed above, depending upon whether or not the extra content has offline functionality. 39 Table of Contents Subscriptions Revenue from subscriptions is recognized over the subscription term as the service is provided. Licensing Revenues In certain countries, we utilize third-party licensees to distribute and host our games in accordance with license agreements, for which the licensees typically pay us a fixed minimum guarantee and/or sales-based royalties. These arrangements typically include multiple performance obligations, such as a time-based license of software and future update rights. We recognize as revenue a portion of the minimum guarantee when we transfer control of the license of software (generally upon commercial launch) and the remaining portion ratably over the contractual term in which we provide the licensee with future update rights. Any sales-based royalties are generally recognized as the related sales occur by the licensee. Revenue Classification We classify our revenue as either product revenue or service and other revenue. Generally, performance obligations that are recognized upfront upon transfer of control are classified as product revenue, while performance obligations that are recognized over the Estimated Offering Period or subscription period as the services are provided are classified as service revenue. Product revenue . Our product revenue includes revenue allocated to the software license performance obligation. Product revenue also includes revenue from the licensing of software to third-parties. Service and other revenue . Our service revenue includes revenue allocated to the future update rights and the online hosting performance obligations. This also includes revenue allocated to the future update rights from the licensing of software to third-parties, software that offers an online-only service such as our Ultimate Team game mode, and subscription services. Significant Judgments around Revenue Arrangements Identifying performance obligations. Performance obligations promised in a contract are identified based on the goods and services that will be transferred to the customer that are both capable of being distinct, (i.e., the customer can benefit from the goods or services either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available), and are distinct in the context of the contract (i.e., it is separately identifiable from other goods or services in the contract). To the extent a contract includes multiple promises, we must apply judgment to determine whether those promises are separate and distinct performance obligations. If these criteria are not met, the promises are accounted for as a combined performance obligation. Determining the transaction price. The transaction price is determined based on the consideration that we will be entitled to receive in exchange for transferring our goods and services to the customer. Determining the transaction price often requires significant judgment, based on an assessment of contractual terms and business practices. It further includes review of variable consideration such as discounts, sales returns, price protection, and rebates, which is estimated at the time of the transaction. See below for additional information regarding our sales returns and price protection reserves. In addition, the transaction price does not include an estimate of the variable consideration related to sales-based royalties. Sales-based royalties are recognized as the sales occur. Allocating the transaction price. Allocating the transaction price requires that we determine an estimate of the relative stand-alone selling price for each distinct performance obligation. Determining the relative stand-alone selling price is inherently subjective, especially in situations where we do not sell the performance obligation on a stand-alone basis (which occurs in the majority of our transactions). In those situations, we determine the relative stand-alone selling price based on various observable inputs using all information that is reasonably available. Examples of observable inputs and information include: historical internal pricing data, cost plus margin analyses, third-party external pricing of similar or same products and services such as software licenses and maintenance support within the enterprise software industry. The results of our analysis resulted in a specific percentage of the transaction price being allocated to each performance obligation. Determining the Estimated Offering Period. The offering period is the period in which we offer to provide the future update rights and/or online hosting for the game and related extra content sold. Because the offering period is not an explicitly defined period, we must make an estimate of the offering period for the service related performance obligations (i.e., future update rights and online hosting). Determining the Estimated Offering Period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision. Generally, we consider the average period of time customers are online when estimating the offering period. We also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to the 40 Table of Contents customer (i.e., time in channel). Based on these two factors, we then consider the method of distribution. For example, games sold at retail would have a composite offering period equal to the online gameplay period plus time in channel as opposed to digitally-distributed software licenses which are delivered immediately via digital download and therefore, the offering period is estimated to be only the online gameplay period. Additionally, we consider results from prior analyses, known and expected online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors games in determining the Estimated Offering Period for future sales. We believe this provides a reasonable depiction of the transfer of future update rights and online hosting to our customers, as it is the best representation of the time period during which our games are played. We recognize revenue for future update rights and online hosting performance obligations ratably on a straight-line basis over this period as there is a consistent pattern of delivery for these performance obligations. These performance obligations are generally recognized over an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for software licenses sold through retail and an estimated six-month period for digitally-distributed software licenses. Deferred Net Revenue Because the majority of our sales transactions include future update rights and online hosting performance obligations, which are subject to a recognition period of generally six to nine months, our deferred net revenue balance is material. This balance increases from period to period by the revenue being deferred for current sales with these service obligations and is reduced by the recognition of revenue from prior sales that were deferred. Generally, revenue is recognized as the services are provided. Principal Agent Considerations We evaluate sales to end customers of our full games and related content via third-party storefronts, including digital storefronts such as Microsofts Xbox Store, Sonys PlayStation Store, Apple App Store, and Google Play Store, in order to determine whether or not we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer, which we consider in determining if revenue should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the third-party storefront. An entity is the principal if it controls a good or service before it is transferred to the end customer. Key indicators that we evaluate in determining gross versus net treatment include but are not limited to the following: the underlying contract terms and conditions between the various parties to the transaction; which party is primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the specified good or service to the end customer; which party has inventory risk before the specified good or service has been transferred to the end customer; and which party has discretion in establishing the price for the specified good or service. Based on an evaluation of the above indicators, except as discussed below, we have determined that generally the third party is considered the principal to end customers for the sale of our full games and related content. We therefore report revenue related to these arrangements net of the fees retained by the storefront. However, for sales arrangements via Apple App Store and Google Play Store, EA is considered the principal to the end customer and thus, we report revenue on a gross basis and mobile platform fees are reported within cost of revenue. Payment Terms Substantially all of our transactions have payment terms, whether customary or on an extended basis, of less than one year; therefore, we generally do not adjust the transaction price for the effects of any potential financing components that may exist. Sales and Value-Added Taxes Revenue is recorded net of taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed at the time of the specific revenue-producing transaction between us and our customer, such as sales and value-added taxes. 41 Table of Contents Sales Returns and Price Protection Reserves Sales returns and price protection are considered variable consideration under ASC 606. We reduce revenue for estimated future returns and price protection which may occur with our distributors and retailers (channel partners). Price protection represents our practice to provide our channel partners with a credit allowance to lower their wholesale price on a particular game unit that they have not resold to customers. The amount of the price protection for permanent markdowns is the difference between the old wholesale price and the new reduced wholesale price. Credits are also given for short-term promotions, temporarily reducing the wholesale price. In certain countries we also have a practice for allowing channel partners to return older products in the channel in exchange for a credit allowance. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection reserves, we analyze the following: historical credit allowances, current sell-through of our channel partners inventory of our products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand, acceptance of our products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in customer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection reserves would change and would impact the transaction price and thus, the total net revenue and related balance sheet accounts that we report. Fair Value Estimates Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, the estimated fair value assigned to an acquired asset or liability has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, which is an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that technology. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration requires an assessment of the probability-weighted expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures the risk associated with the obligation. The significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurement of the contingent consideration payable are forecasted earnings. Significant changes in forecasted earnings would result in significantly higher or lower fair value measurement. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts with guaranteed minimums. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units and amount of extra content that we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, number of platforms we release on, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Furthermore, if we 42 Table of Contents conclude that we are unable to make a reasonably reliable forecast of projected net revenue, we recognize royalty expense at the greater of contract rate or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product, and therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product and service sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are generally charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. If impairment exists, then the assets are written down to fair value. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts, and therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned (i.e., cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both (1) the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and (2) the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carryback of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. We recorded a provisional tax expense of $235 million related to the U.S. Tax Act for the year ended March 31, 2018, $192 million of which relates to the Transition Tax. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we made no adjustments to these provisional amounts. The final calculation of taxes attributable to the U.S. Tax Act may differ from our estimates, potentially materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the U.S. Tax Act, our further analysis of the U.S. Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates that we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts. Reasonable estimates of the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act are provided in accordance with SEC guidance that allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. We expect to complete the accounting under the U.S. Tax Act as soon as practicable, but in no event later than one year from the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act. The U.S. Tax Act creates new U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. Our provision for income taxes for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 provisionally does not reflect any deferred tax impacts of the U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. Because of the complexity of the rules regarding the new tax on foreign earnings, we are continuing to evaluate this accounting policy election. Prior to the U.S. Tax Act, a substantial majority of undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries were considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The U.S. Tax Act included a mandatory one-time tax on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries, and as a result, substantially all previously unremitted earnings for which no U.S. deferred tax liability had been accrued have now been subject to U.S. tax. 43 Table of Contents As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective tax rate. IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The information under the subheading Other Recently Issued Accounting Standards in Note 1 Description of Business and Basis of Presentation to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 - or 53 -week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2019 contains 52 weeks and ends on March 30, 2019. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018 contained 52 weeks and ended on March 31, 2018. Our results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 contained 13 weeks each and ended on June 30, 2018 and July 1, 2017, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) full games sold as digital downloads or as packaged goods and designed for play on game consoles and PCs, (2) full games for mobile phones and tablets, (3) live services associated with these games, such as extra-content (4) subscriptions that generally offer access to a selection of full games, in-game content, online services and other benefits, and (5) licensing our games to third parties to distribute and host our games. We provide two different measures of our Net Revenue: (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue, and (2) Net Revenue by Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue by Composition (Digital, and Packaged goods and other) than by Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue. Net Revenue Quarterly Analysis On April 1, 2018, we adopted the New Revenue Standard, which significantly changes the way in which we recognize revenue, including the way in which we present mobile platform fees. We elected to apply the New Revenue Standard using the modified retrospective method. Because of that election, revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2017 has not been restated and is reported under the accounting standards in effect for that period. In order to facilitate year-over-year comparisons, in the Net Revenue and Cost of Revenue tables below, we have quantified the amount of the year-over-year change attributable to (1) the adoption of the New Revenue Standard, (2) the change in the way in which we present mobile platform fees and (3) our operations. The amount attributable to our operations is equivalent to the difference between current and prior period net revenues under the Old Revenue Standard. For more information on the adoption of the New Revenue Standard, including information related to the change in how we report mobile revenue, please see Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q in the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in Note 1 under the heading Recently Adopted Accounting Standards. Net Revenue Net revenue from our operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $33 million , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This decrease was driven by a $391 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield franchise and Mass Effect: Andromeda . This decrease was partially offset by a $358 million increase in revenue primarily from the FIFA, Star Wars and Need for Speed franchises. 44 Table of Contents Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Changes due to: 2018 2017 Total Change ASC 606 Adoption Mobile Platform Fees under ASC 606 Operational Net revenue: Product $ 202 $ 828 $ (626 ) $ (514 ) $ $ (112 ) Service and other 935 621 314 186 49 79 Total net revenue $ 1,137 $ 1,449 $ (312 ) $ (328 ) $ 49 $ (33 ) Product Revenue Product net revenue from our operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $112 million , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This decrease was driven by a $378 million decrease primarily from Battlefield I and Mass Effect: Andromeda . This decrease was partially offset by a $266 million increase primarily from Star Wars Battlefront II , and the Need for Speed and The Sims franchises. Service and Other Revenue Service and other net revenue from our operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $79 million , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This increase was driven by a $132 million increase primarily from FIFA Ultimate Team and Battlefield 1 Premium . This increase was partially offset by a $53 million decrease primarily from Mass Effect: Andromeda, SimCity Mobile, and the Plants vs. Zombies franchise. Supplemental Net Revenue by Composition As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally, we place a significant emphasis and focus on assessing our business performance through a review of net revenue by composition. Our net revenue by composition for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Changes due to: 2018 2017 Total Change ASC 606 Adoption Mobile Platform Fees under ASC 606 Operational Net revenue: Full game downloads $ 116 $ 209 $ (93 ) $ (60 ) $ $ (33 ) Live services 610 501 109 27 82 Mobile 231 169 62 10 49 3 Total Digital $ 957 $ 879 $ 78 $ (23 ) $ 49 $ 52 Packaged goods and other $ 180 $ 570 $ (390 ) $ (305 ) $ $ (85 ) Total net revenue $ 1,137 $ 1,449 $ (312 ) $ (328 ) $ 49 $ (33 ) Digital Net Revenue Digital net revenue includes full-game downloads, live services, and mobile revenue. Full game downloads includes revenue from digital sales of full games on console and PC. Live services includes revenue from sales of extra content for console, PC, browser games, game software licensed to our third-party publishing partners who distribute our games digitally, subscriptions, and advertising. Mobile includes revenue from the sale of full games and extra content on mobile phones and tablets. 45 Table of Contents Digital net revenue from our operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 increased $52 million , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This increase is due to an $82 million increase in live services primarily driven by our Ultimate Team game mode and a $3 million increase in mobile revenue primarily driven by FIFA Mobile. These increases were offset by a $33 million decrease in full-game download revenue primarily driven by Battlefield 1. Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue Packaged goods net revenue includes revenue from software that is distributed physically. This includes (1) net revenue from game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, and (2) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of console platforms, personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (OEM bundles). Other revenue includes our non-software licensing revenue. Packaged goods and other net revenue from our operations for the three months ended June 30, 2018 decreased $85 million , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This decrease was driven by a $238 million decrease primarily from Battlefield 1 and Titanfall 2 . This decrease was partially offset by a $153 million increase primarily from Star Wars Battlefront II and the Need for Speed franchise. Cost of Revenue Quarterly Analysis Cost of revenue for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended June 30, Changes due to: 2018 2017 Total Change ASC 606 Adoption Mobile Platform Fees under ASC 606 Operational Cost of revenue: Product $ 68 $ 64 4 $ (10 ) $ $ 14 Service and other 147 90 57 10 49 (2 ) Total cost of revenue $ 215 $ 154 $ 61 $ $ 49 $ 12 Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue consists of (1) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports leagues, movie studios and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) inventory costs, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs and losses on previously unrecognized licensed intellectual property commitments, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of product revenue from operations increased by $14 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This increase was primarily due to an increase in the royalty costs associated with A Way Out. Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) royalty costs, (2) data center, bandwidth and server costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (3) inventory costs, (4) platform processing fees from operating our website-based games on third party platforms, (5) credit card fees and (6) mobile platform fees associated with our mobile revenue (for transactions in which we are acting as the principal in the sale to the end customer). Operationally, cost of service and other revenue remained relatively consistent in the three months ended June 30, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . Research and Development 46 Table of Contents Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with our digital platform, software licenses and maintenance, and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2018 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2017 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 362 32 % $ 325 22 % $ 37 11 % Research and development expenses increased by $37 million , or 11 percent , during the three months ended June 30, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This $37 million increase was primarily due to a $31 million increase in personnel-related costs and a $19 million increase in stock-based compensation, both primarily driven by an increase in headcount in connection with the Respawn acquisition during the third quarter of fiscal year 2018. These increases were partially offset by a $20 million decrease in development advances primarily related to the Respawn acquisition since prior to the acquisition the parties were under a development agreement. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2018 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2017 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 140 12 % $ 121 8 % $ 19 16 % Marketing and sales expenses increased by $19 million , or 16 percent , during the three months ended June 30, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This $19 million increase was primarily due to a $17 million increase in advertising and promotional spending on Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes and the FIFA franchise. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, corporate functions such as finance, legal, human resources, and information technology, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2018 % of Net Revenue June 30, 2017 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 114 10 % $ 105 7 % $ 9 9 % General and administrative expenses increased by $9 million , or 9 percent , during the three months ended June 30, 2018 , as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This $9 million increase was primarily due to a $5 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from an increase in headcount and a $3 million increase in stock-based compensation. 47 Table of Contents Income Taxes Provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 were as follows (in millions): June 30, 2018 Effective Tax Rate June 30, 2017 Effective Tax Rate Three Months Ended $ 26 8.2 % $ 105 14.0 % The provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2018 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2019, adjusted for specific items that are required to be recognized in the period in which they incur. Our effective tax rate and resulting provision for income taxes for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was significantly impacted by the U.S. Tax Act, enacted on December 22, 2017. Our effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was 8.2 percent as compared to 14.0 percent for the same period in fiscal year 2018. The effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was impacted by the lower U.S. statutory tax rate as a result of the U.S. Tax Act and earnings realized in countries that have lower statutory tax rates, partially offset by less excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation recognized in the current period as compared to the same period in fiscal year 2018. When compared to the statutory rate of 21.0 percent , the effective tax rate for the three months ended June 30, 2018 was lower due to earnings realized in countries that have lower statutory tax rates and the recognition of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation. Excluding excess tax benefits, our effective tax rate would have been 11.3 percent for the three months ended June 30, 2018 . The U.S. Tax Act significantly revised the U.S. corporate income tax system by, among other things, lowering the U.S. corporate income tax rates to 21 percent, generally implementing a territorial tax system and imposing a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. We recorded a provisional tax expense of $235 million related to the U.S. Tax Act for the year ended March 31, 2018, $192 million of which relates to the Transition Tax. During the three months ended June 30, 2018, we made no adjustments to these provisional amounts. The final calculation of taxes attributable to the U.S. Tax Act may differ from our estimates, potentially materially, due to, among other things, changes in interpretations of the U.S. Tax Act, our further analysis of the U.S. Tax Act, or any updates or changes to estimates that we have utilized to calculate the transition impacts. Reasonable estimates of the impacts of the U.S. Tax Act are provided in accordance with SEC guidance that allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. We expect to complete the accounting under the U.S. Tax Act as soon as practicable, but in no event later than one year from the enactment date of the U.S. Tax Act. The U.S. Tax Act creates new U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. Our provision for income taxes for the quarter ended June 30, 2018 provisionally does not reflect any deferred tax impacts of the U.S. taxes on foreign earnings. Because of the complexity of the rules regarding the new tax on foreign earnings, we are continuing to evaluate this accounting policy election. On July 24, 2018, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals issued an opinion in Altera Corp. v. Commissioner (the Altera opinion) requiring related parties in an intercompany cost-sharing arrangement to share expenses related to stock-based compensation. This opinion reversed the prior decision of the United States Tax Court. On August 7, 2018, the Altera opinion was withdrawn for reconsideration. We will continue to monitor ongoing developments and potential impacts to our condensed consolidated financial statements. If the Altera opinion stands, it could result in material changes to our condensed consolidated financial statements. 48 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of June 30, 2018 As of March 31, 2018 Increase/(Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,876 $ 4,258 $ (382 ) Short-term investments 1,095 1,073 22 Total $ 4,971 $ 5,331 $ (360 ) Percentage of total assets 60 % 62 % Three Months Ended June 30, (In millions) 2018 2017 Change Net cash provided by operating activities $ 120 $ 176 $ (56 ) Net cash used in investing activities (103 ) (288 ) 185 Net cash used in financing activities (388 ) (215 ) (173 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (11 ) 10 (21 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (382 ) $ (317 ) $ (65 ) Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $56 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . The decrease is primarily driven by (1) $37 million in additional research and development expenses, (2) a $38 million decrease due to the timing of advertising credit collections, and (3) a $21 million increase in tax payments during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . This decrease is partially offset by the timing of marketing and advertising payments during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $185 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 primarily driven by a $465 million decrease in the purchase of short-term investments. This decrease was offset by a $231 million decrease in proceeds from the sales and maturities of short-term investments during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 and the payment of $50 million in connection with the acquisition of GameFly Cloud Gaming during the three months ended June 30, 2018 Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $173 million during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 primarily due to a $150 million increase in the repurchase and retirement of our common stock and a $29 million decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options during the three months ended June 30, 2018 as compared to the three months ended June 30, 2017 . Short-term Investments Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of June 30, 2018 , our short-term investments had gross unrealized losses of $8 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized gains of less than $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Senior Notes In February 2016, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes and $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes. We used the net proceeds of $989 million for general corporate purposes, including the payment of our formerly outstanding convertible notes and repurchases of our common stock. The effective interest rate is 3.94% for the 2021 Notes and 4.97% for the 2026 Notes. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. See Note 12 Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our Senior Notes, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. 49 Table of Contents Credit Facility In March 2015 , we entered into a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. As of June 30, 2018 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. See Note 12 Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to the above items, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. Financial Condition We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt repayment obligations, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to repay debt, strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. In May 2018, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the full Board of Directors, authorized a program to repurchase up to $2.4 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program supersedes and replaces the May 2017 program, and expires on May 31, 2020. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase a specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 , we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares for approximately $224 million under this program. We are actively repurchasing shares under this program. In May 2017, a Special Committee of our Board of Directors, on behalf of the full Board of Directors, authorized a program to repurchase up to $1.2 billion of our common stock. During the three months ended June 30, 2018 and 2017 , we repurchased approximately 0.6 million and 1.1 million shares for approximately $76 million and $119 million , respectively, under this program. This program was superseded and replaced by the May 2018 program. In May 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. We repurchased approximately 0.3 million shares for approximately $31 million under this program during the three months ended June 30, 2018 . We completed repurchases under the May 2015 program in April 2017. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, which may include funding for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Note 13 Commitments and Contingencies to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. 50 Table of Contents OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS As of June 30, 2018 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. 51 Table of Contents