Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Quarterly Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 28, 2010 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers is important in order to understand our results for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010, as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2010 as filed with the SEC on May 28, 2010 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We develop, market, publish and distribute video game software and content that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, including video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Microsoft Xbox 360 and Nintendo Wii), personal computers, handheld game players (such as the PlayStation Portable (PSP) and the Nintendo DS), mobile devices (such as cellular and smart phones including the Apple iPhone), and wireless devices such as the Apple iPad. Some of our games are based on content that we license from others ( e.g. , FIFA, Madden NFL, Harry Potter, and Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties), and some of our games are based on our own wholly-owned intellectual property ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed, and Dead Space). Our goal is to publish titles with global mass-market appeal, which often means translating and localizing them for sale in non-English speaking countries. In addition, we also attempt to create software game franchises that allow us to publish new titles on a recurring basis that are based on the same property. Examples of this franchise approach are the annual iterations of our sports-based products ( e.g. , FIFA, Madden NFL, and NCAA Football), wholly-owned properties that can be successfully sequeled ( e.g. , The Sims, Need for Speed, and Battlefield) and titles based on long-lived literary and/or movie properties ( e.g. , Harry Potter). Financial Results Total net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010 was $1,053 million, down $190 million as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease is primarily the result of lower distribution revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. At December 31, 2010, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $357 million as compared to September 30, 2010, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009, deferred net revenue associated with sales of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content increased by $103 million as compared to September 30, 2009, directly reducing the amount of reported net revenue during the three months ended December 31, 2009. Without these changes in deferred net revenue, reported net revenue would have increased by approximately $64 million during the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Net revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010, was driven by FIFA 11 , Madden 11 , and Medal of Honor . 30 Table of Contents Net loss for the three months ended December 31, 2010 was $322 million as compared to a net loss of $82 million for the three months ended December 31, 2009. Diluted loss per share for the three months ended December 31, 2010 was $0.97 as compared to a diluted loss per share of $0.25 for the three months ended December 31, 2009. Net loss increased during the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009 primarily as a result of (1) a decrease of $190 million in net revenue, (2) a $54 million increase in restructuring and other charges primarily from our fiscal 2011 restructuring, (3) a $47 million increase in our income tax provision, and (4) a $45 million increase in marketing and advertising expenses. These amounts were partially offset by a decrease of $68 million in cost of goods sold. During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, we generated $67 million of cash in operating activities as compared to using $101 million of cash for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009 was primarily due to our cost reduction initiatives, including decreases in external development and contracted services, as well as lower marketing and advertising spend as a result of a decrease in the number of titles released as compared to the same period in the prior year. Trends in Our Business Economic Environment. Overall consumer spending has declined as a result of the national and global economic downturn. Retailers globally continue to take a conservative stance in ordering game inventory. We remain cautious about our future sales in light of the economic environment and the impact it has had on our business. Current Generation Game Consoles. Video game hardware systems have historically had a life cycle of four to six years, which causes the video game software market to be cyclical as well. The current cycle began with Microsofts launch of the Xbox 360 in 2005, and continued in 2006 when Sony and Nintendo launched their next-generation systems, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii, respectively. Unlike past cycles, we believe this current cycle may be extended, partly due to the growth of online gaming services and content, the greater graphic and processing power of the current-generation hardware and the introduction of new peripherals, such as Kinect for the Xbox 360 and the Move motion controller for the PLAYSTATION 3. However, growth in the installed base of users of the Xbox 360, the PLAYSTATION 3 and the Wii may slow down in light of the economic environment. Consequently, our industry may experience a decline. Wireless Platforms . Advances in wireless technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving platforms for on-the-go interactive entertainment that appeal to a broad consumer base. Our efforts in wireless interactive entertainment are focused in two areas packaged goods games for handheld game systems and downloadable games for mobile devices. We expect sales of games for mobile devices to continue to be an important part of our business worldwide. Catalog Sales . The video game industry is experiencing a change in retail sales patterns which is decreasing revenue from catalog sales (sales of games in the periods following the launch quarter). Currently, many console games experience sales cycles that are shorter than in the past. To mitigate this trend, we offer our consumers a direct-to-consumer service (such as head-to-head play or other multiplayer options) and/or additional content available through online services to further enhance the gaming experience and extend the time that consumers play our games after their initial purchase. We anticipate that in some cases these additional online services will also generate revenue to mitigate the effect of reduced catalog sales. Used Games . Some retailers sell used video games, which are generally priced lower than new video games and do not result in revenue to the publisher of the games from the sale. We have observed that the market for used video games has been growing. If retailers continue to increase their sales of used video games, it could negatively affect our sales of new video games and have an adverse impact on our operating results. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games . We see a larger portion of packaged goods games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, and that those titles are typically sequels of prior games. We have reacted to this trend by significantly reducing the number of games that we produce to provide greater focus on our most promising intellectual properties. 31 Table of Contents Digital Content Distribution and Services . Consumers are spending an ever-increasing portion of their money and time on interactive entertainment that is accessible online, or through mobile digital devices such as smart phones, or through social networks such as Facebook. We provide a variety of online-delivered products and services. Many of our games that are available as packaged goods products are also available through direct online download through the Internet (from websites we maintain and others that we license). We also offer online-delivered content and services that are add-ons or related to our packaged goods products such as additional game content or enhancements of multiplayer services. Further, we provide other games, content and services that are available only via electronic delivery, such as Internet-only games and game services, and games for mobile devices. Advances in mobile technology have resulted in a variety of new and evolving devices that are being used to play games by an ever-broadening base of consumers. We have responded to these advances in technology, and consumer acceptance of digital distribution, by offering subscription services, online downloads for a one-time fee, and advertising-supported free games and game sites. We expect online delivery of games and game services to be an increasing part of our business going forward. Recent Developments Sale of Ubisoft Investment. In February 2005, we purchased approximately 19.9 percent of the then-outstanding ordinary shares (representing approximately 18 percent of the voting rights at the time) of Ubisoft Entertainment for $91 million. During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, we sold this investment for approximately $121 million and realized gains of $28 million, net of costs to sell. Fiscal 2011 Restructuring. During the quarter ended December 31, 2010, we announced details of a plan focused on the restructuring of certain licensing and developer agreements in an effort to improve the long-term profitability of our packaged goods business. Under this plan, we amended certain licensing and developer agreements. To a much lesser extent, as part of this restructuring we have had and will continue to have workforce reductions and facilities closures through March 31, 2011. Substantially all of these exit activities were completed during the quarter ended December 31, 2010. Since the inception of the fiscal 2011 restructuring plan through December 31, 2010, we have incurred charges of $151 million, consisting of (1) $104 million related to the amendment of certain licensing agreements and other intangible asset impairment costs, (2) $31 million related to the amendment of certain developer agreements, and (3) $16 million in employee-related expenses. During the remainder of fiscal year 2011, we anticipate incurring less than $5 million of restructuring and other charges related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring. International Operations and Foreign Currency Exchange Impact. International sales ( revenue derived from countries other than Canada and the United States), are a fundamental part of our business. Net revenue from international sales accounted for approximately 48 percent of our total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and approximately 43 percent of our total net revenue during the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Our net revenue is impacted by foreign exchange rates during the reporting period associated with net revenue before revenue deferral, as well as the foreign exchange rates associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content that were established at the time we recorded this deferred net revenue on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. The foreign exchange rates during the reporting period may not always move in the same direction as the foreign exchange rate impact associated with the recognition of deferred net revenue of online-enabled packaged goods and digital content. During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, foreign exchange rates had an overall unfavorable impact on our net revenue of approximately $61 million, or 2 percent. In addition, our international investments and our cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, then foreign exchange rates may have an unfavorable impact on our results of operations and our financial condition. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. 32 Table of Contents Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns, Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games designed for play on video game consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs, handheld game players (such as the PSP and Nintendo DS), mobile devices (such as cellular and smart phones including the Apple iPhone) and wireless devices such as the Apple iPad. We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition , and Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 104, Revenue Recognition . We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement . Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver products that must be present in order to recognize revenue. Delivery . Delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. For online game services, delivery is considered to occur as the service is provided. For digital downloads that do not have an online service component, delivery is generally considered to occur when the download is made available. Fixed or determinable fee . If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable . We conduct a credit review of each customer involved in a significant transaction to determine the creditworthiness of the customer. Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable, we recognize revenue when collection becomes probable (generally upon cash collection). Determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and management judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report in each period. For example, for multiple element arrangements, we must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element has been delivered, (2) determine whether undelivered products or services are essential to the functionality of the delivered products and services, (3) determine whether vendor specific objective evidence (VSOE) exists for each undelivered element, and (4) allocate the total price among the various elements we must deliver. Changes to any of these assumptions or management judgments, or changes to the elements in a software arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Depending on the type of product, we may offer an online service that permits consumers to play against others via the Internet and/or receive additional updates or content from us. For those games that consumers can play via the Internet, we may provide a matchmaking service that permits consumers to connect with other consumers to play against each other online. In those situations where we do not require an additional fee for this online service, we account for the sale of the software product and the online service as a bundled sale, or multiple element arrangement, in which we sell both the software product and the online service for one combined price. We defer net revenue from sales of these games for which we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provided in connection with the sale, and recognize the revenue from these games over the estimated online service period, which is generally estimated to be six months beginning in the month after shipment. In addition, for some software products we also provide updates or additional content (digital content) to be delivered via the Internet that can be used with the original software product. In many cases we separately sell digital content for an additional fee; however, some purchased digital content can only be accessed via the Internet ( i.e. , the consumer never takes possession of the digital content). We account for online transactions in which the consumer does not take possession of the digital content as a service transaction and, accordingly, we recognize the associated revenue over the estimated service period. In other transactions, at the date we sell the software product we have an obligation to provide incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. In these cases, we account for the sale of the software product as a multiple element arrangement and recognize the revenue on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of game play. Determining whether a transaction constitutes an online service transaction or a digital content download of a product requires judgment and can be difficult. The accounting for these transactions is significantly different. Revenue from product downloads is generally recognized when the download is made available (assuming all other recognition criteria are met). Revenue from an online game service is recognized as the service is rendered. If the service period is not defined, we recognize the revenue over the estimated service period. Determining the estimated service period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. In addition, determining whether we have an implicit obligation to provide incremental unspecified future digital content without an additional fee can be difficult. 33 Table of Contents Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors (channel partners), is recognized when the four above criteria are met. We reduce product revenue for estimated future returns, price protection, and other offerings, which may occur with our customers and channel partners. Price protection represents the right to receive a credit allowance in the event we lower our wholesale price on a particular product. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old price and the new price. In certain countries, we have stock-balancing programs for our PC and video game system software products, which allow for the exchange of these software products by resellers under certain circumstances. It is our general practice to exchange software products or give credits rather than to give cash refunds. In certain countries, from time to time, we decide to provide price protection for our software products. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze historical returns, current sell-through of distributor and retailer inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game segment, changes in customer demand and acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection costs in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. For example, the risk of product returns and/or price protection for our software products may continue to increase as the PlayStation 2 console moves through its lifecycle. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates changed, our returns and price protection reserves would change, which would impact the total net revenue we report. For example, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly greater than the reserves we have established, our actual results would decrease our reported total net revenue. Conversely, if actual returns and/or price protection were significantly less than our reserves, this would increase our reported total net revenue. In addition, if our estimates of returns and price protection related to online-enabled packaged goods software products change, the amount of deferred net revenue we recognize in the future would change. Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating customer creditworthiness in the context of current economic trends and historical experience. Depending upon the overall economic climate and the financial condition of our customers, the amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly. Fair Value Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States often requires us to determine the fair value of a particular item in order to fairly present our financial statements. Without an independent market or another representative transaction, determining the fair value of a particular item requires us to make several assumptions that are inherently difficult to predict and can have a material impact on the accounting conclusion. There are various valuation techniques used to estimate fair value. These include (1) the market approach where market transactions for identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to determine the fair value, (2) the income approach, which uses valuation techniques to convert future amounts (for example, future cash flows or future earnings) to a single present value amount, and (3) the cost approach, which is based on the amount that would be required to replace an asset. For many of our fair value estimates, including our estimates of the fair value of acquired intangible assets and acquired in-process technology, we use the income approach. Using the income approach requires the use of financial models, which require us to make various estimates including, but not limited to (1) the potential future cash flows for the asset or liability being measured, (2) the timing of receipt or payment of those future cash flows, (3) the time value of money associated with the expected receipt or payment of such cash flows, and (4) the inherent risk associated with the cash flows (risk premium). Making these cash flow estimates are inherently difficult and subjective, and, if any of the estimates used to determine the fair value using the income approach turns out to be inaccurate, our financial results may be negatively impacted. Furthermore, relatively small changes in many of these estimates can have a significant impact to the estimated fair value resulting from the financial models or the related accounting conclusion reached. For example, a relatively small change in the estimated fair value of an asset may change a conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired. 34 Table of Contents While we are required to make certain fair value assessments associated with the accounting for several types of transactions, the following areas are the most sensitive to these assessments: Business Combinations . We must estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities and contingencies assumed, acquired in-process technology, and contingent consideration issued in a business combination. Our assessment of the estimated fair value of each of these can have a material effect on our reported results as intangible assets and acquired in-process technology are amortized over various estimated useful lives. Furthermore, a change in the estimated fair value of an asset or liability often has a direct impact on the amount we recognize as goodwill, an asset that is not amortized. Determining the fair value of assets acquired requires an assessment of the highest and best use or the expected price to sell the asset and the related expected future cash flows. Determining the fair value of acquired in-process technology also requires an assessment of our expectations related to the use of that asset. Determining the fair value of an assumed liability requires an assessment of the expected cost to transfer the liability. Determining the fair value of contingent consideration issued requires an assessment of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the obligation is expected to be settled, and applying a discount rate that appropriately captures a market participants view of the risk associated with the obligation. This fair value assessment is also required in periods subsequent to a business combination. Such estimates are inherently difficult and subjective and can have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Assessment of Impairment of Goodwill, Intangibles, and Other Long-Lived Assets. Current accounting standards require that we assess the recoverability of our finite lived acquisition-related intangible assets and other long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the remaining value of the assets recorded on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets is potentially impaired. In order to determine if a potential impairment has occurred, management must make various assumptions about the estimated fair value of the asset by evaluating future business prospects and estimated cash flows. For some assets, our estimated fair value is dependent upon predicting which of our products will be successful. This success is dependent upon several factors, which are beyond our control, such as which operating platforms will be successful in the marketplace. Also, our revenue and earnings are dependent on our ability to meet our product release schedules. We are required to perform a two-step approach to testing goodwill for impairment for each reporting unit annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount. Our reporting units are determined by the components of our operating segments that constitute a business for which (1) discrete financial information is available and (2) segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. We are required to perform the impairment test at least annually by applying a fair value-based test. The first step measures for impairment by applying fair value-based tests at the reporting unit level. The second step (if necessary) measures the amount of impairment by applying fair value-based tests to the individual assets and liabilities within each reporting unit. To determine the fair value of each reporting unit used in the first step, we use a combination of the market approach, which utilizes comparable companies data, and/or the income approach, which utilizes discounted cash flows. Determining whether an event or change in circumstances does or does not indicate that the fair value of a reporting unit is below its carrying amount is inherently subjective. Each step requires us to make judgments and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include long-term growth rates, tax rates, and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates based on our weighted average cost of capital, future economic and market conditions and determination of appropriate market comparables. These estimates and assumptions have to be made for each reporting unit evaluated for impairment. As of the last annual assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, we concluded that the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units adequately exceeded their carrying values and we have not identified any indicators of impairment since. Our estimates for market growth, our market share and costs are based on historical data, various internal estimates and certain external sources, and are based on assumptions that are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying business. Our business consists of developing, marketing and distributing video game software using both established and emerging intellectual properties and our forecasts for emerging intellectual properties are based upon internal estimates and external sources rather than historical information and have an inherently higher risk of accuracy. If future forecasts are revised, they may indicate or require future impairment charges. We base our fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable, but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual future results may differ from those estimates. 35 Table of Contents Assessment of Impairment of Short-Term Investments, Marketable Equity Securities and Other Investments. We periodically review our short-term investments, marketable equity securities and other investments for impairment. Our short-term investments consist of securities with remaining maturities greater than three months at the time of purchase and our marketable equity securities consist of investments in common stock of publicly traded companies, both are accounted for as available-for-sale securities. Unrealized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity, net of tax, until either (1) the security is sold or (2) we determine that the fair value of the security has declined below its adjusted cost basis and the decline is other-than-temporary. Realized gains and losses on our short-term investments and marketable equity securities are calculated based on the specific identification method and are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to interest and other income (expense), net, and gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, respectively. Determining whether the decline in fair value is other-than-temporary requires management judgment based on the specific facts and circumstances of each security. The ultimate value realized on these securities is subject to market price volatility until they are sold. We consider various factors in determining whether we should recognize an impairment charge, including the credit quality of the issuer, the duration that the fair value has been less than the adjusted cost basis, severity of the impairment, reason for the decline in value and potential recovery period, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees, and our intent to sell and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value, any contractual terms impacting the prepayment or settlement process, as well as, if we would be required to sell an investment due to liquidity or contractual reasons before its anticipated recovery. During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, we recognized impairment charges on our marketable equity securities of $2 million. We did not recognize any impairment charges during the three months ended December 31, 2010 on our marketable equity securities. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, we recognized impairment charges on our marketable equity securities of $1 million and $25 million, respectively. Our ongoing consideration of these factors could result in additional impairment charges in the future, which could have a material impact on our financial results. Our other investments consist principally of non-voting preferred shares in two companies whose common stock is publicly traded. These investments are recorded at cost until we determine that the fair value of the investment has fallen below its adjusted cost basis and that such decline is other-than-temporary. We evaluate these investments for impairment quarterly and make appropriate reductions in the carrying values if we determine that an impairment charge is required, based primarily on the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investees. We did not recognize any impairment charges during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 or 2009 on our other investments. Assessment of Inventory Obsolescence. We regularly review inventory quantities on-hand. We write down inventory based on excess or obsolete inventories determined primarily by future anticipated demand for our products. Inventory write-downs are measured as the difference between the cost of the inventory and market value, based upon assumptions about future demand that are inherently difficult to assess. At the point of a loss recognition, a new, lower cost basis for that inventory is established, and subsequent changes in facts and circumstances do not result in the restoration or increase in that newly established cost basis. Stock-Based Compensation We are required to estimate the fair value of share-based payment awards on the date of grant. We recognize compensation costs for stock-based payment awards to employees based on the grant-date fair value using a straight-line approach over the service period for which such awards are expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock units and restricted stock is determined based on the quoted market price of our common stock on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options and stock purchase rights granted pursuant to our equity incentive plans and our 2000 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP), respectively, is determined using the Black-Scholes valuation model. The determination of fair value is affected by our stock price, as well as assumptions regarding subjective and complex variables such as expected employee exercise behavior and our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the award. Generally, our assumptions are based on historical information and judgment is required to determine if historical trends may be indicators of future outcomes. The key assumptions for the Black-Scholes valuation calculation are: Risk-free interest rate . The risk-free interest rate is based on U.S. Treasury yields in effect at the time of grant for the expected term of the option. Expected volatility . We use a combination of historical stock price volatility and implied volatility computed based on the price of options publicly traded on our common stock for our expected volatility assumption. Expected term . The expected term represents the weighted-average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding. The expected term is determined based on historical exercise behavior, post-vesting termination patterns, options outstanding and future expected exercise behavior. Expected dividends . 36 Table of Contents Employee stock-based compensation expense is calculated based on awards ultimately expected to vest and is reduced for estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates and an adjustment to stock-based compensation expense will be recognized at that time. Changes to our assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option valuation calculation and our forfeiture rate, as well as future equity granted or assumed through acquisitions could significantly impact the compensation expense we recognize. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of goods sold generally at the greater of the contractual rate for contracts with guaranteed minimums, or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product and, therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of goods sold. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next twelve months. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of goods sold. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts and, therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. During the three months ended December 31, 2010, we recognized losses of $75 million on our previously unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments and impairment charges of $27 million on our royalty-based assets, both related to our fiscal 2011 restructuring. During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, we recognized losses of $85 million, inclusive of $75 million related to our fiscal 2011 restructuring, on our previously unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments and impairment charges of $27 million on our royalty-based assets related to our fiscal 2011 restructuring. During the three months ended December 31, 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $9 million on our royalty-based assets related to our fiscal 2010 restructuring. During the nine months ended December 31, 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $10 million, inclusive of $9 million related to our fiscal 2010 restructuring, on our royalty-based assets. The losses and impairment charges related to our restructuring and other restructuring plan-related activities are presented in Note 7 of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 37 Table of Contents Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and for the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carry forwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. It is generally difficult to conclude that a valuation allowance is not needed when there is significant negative evidence, such as cumulative losses in recent years. Forecasts of future taxable income are considered to be less objective than past results, particularly in light of the economic environment. Therefore, cumulative losses weigh heavily in the overall assessment. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. For example, in determining the valuation allowance we recorded at June 30, 2009, we did not include as a source of future taxable income the taxable temporary difference related to the accumulated tax depreciation on our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to leases which expired in July 2009, and had been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Therefore, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $31 million, consisting of approximately $6 million related to the loss on our lease obligation and a $25 million reduction in our valuation allowance due to the inclusion of a significant portion of the remaining taxable temporary difference as a source of future taxable income. Based on the assumptions and requirements noted above, we have recorded a valuation allowance against most of our U.S. deferred tax assets. In addition, we expect to provide a valuation allowance on future U.S. tax benefits until we can sustain a level of profitability or until other significant positive evidence arises that suggest that these benefits are more likely than not to be realized. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52 or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal years ending or ended, as the case may be, March 31, 2011 and 2010 contain 52 and 53 weeks, respectively, and ends or ended, as the case may be, on April 2, 2011 and April 3, 2010, respectively. Our results of operations for the three months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 contained 13 weeks each, and ended on January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively. Our results of operations for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 contained 39 and 40 weeks, respectively, and ended on January 1, 2011 and January 2, 2010, respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. 38 Table of Contents Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods and designed for play on hardware consoles (such as the PLAYSTATION 3, Xbox 360 and Wii), PCs, and handheld game players (such as the Sony PSP and Nintendo DS), (2) video games for mobile devices (such as cellular and smart phones including the Apple iPhone), (3) video games for wireless devices such as the Apple iPad, (4) digitally downloaded games and content and online services associated with these games, (5) services in connection with some of our online-enabled games, (6) programming third-party web sites with our game content, (7) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (8) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, a non-GAAP financial measure, is provided in this section of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A). See Non-GAAP Financial Measures below for an explanation of our use of this non-GAAP measure. A reconciliation to the corresponding measure calculated in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States is provided in the discussion below. Revenue Deferral in this Net Revenue section includes the unrecognized revenue from (1) bundled sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and PC digital downloads for which either we do not have VSOE for the online service that we provide in connection with the sale of the software or we have an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content, (2) certain packaged goods sales of massively-multiplayer online role-playing games, and (3) sales of certain incremental digital content associated with our games, which are types of micro-transactions. Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of products that we sell with the online features and services previously discussed, while the recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period is also dependent upon (1) the period of time the online features and services are to be provided and (2) the timing of the sale. For example, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first half of a fiscal year are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, substantially all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year. From a geographical perspective, our total Net Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended December 31, 2010 2009 North America Europe Asia Total North America Europe Asia Total Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral $ 697 $ 640 $ 73 $ 1,410 $ 780 $ 497 $ 69 $ 1,346 Revenue Deferral (490 ) (453 ) (52 ) (995 ) (408 ) (280 ) (37 ) (725 ) Recognition of Revenue Deferral 321 290 27 638 321 272 29 622 Net Revenue $ 528 $ 477 $ 48 $ 1,053 $ 693 $ 489 $ 61 $ 1,243 Worldwide For the three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $1,410 million, driven by Medal of Honor, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, and FIFA 11 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased $64 million, or 5 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $315 million increase from releases within the Medal of Honor and Need for Speed franchises in the current period, with no comparable releases from these franchises during the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was partially offset by a $240 million decrease from releases within the Left 4 Dead and Dragon Age franchises in the prior period, with no comparable releases from these franchises during the three months ended December 31, 2010. Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased $270 million, or 37 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was due to an increase in sales of online-enabled products with an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content on a when and if available basis during the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $440 million increase from the Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, The Sims, and EA SPORTS Active franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $148 million decrease from the Dragon Age franchise and Brutal Legend . 39 Table of Contents The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased $16 million, or 3 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $100 million increase from the Medal of Honor and FIFA franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $78 million decrease from the Need for Speed and Fight Night franchises. For three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue was $1,053 million, driven by FIFA 11, Madden 11, and Medal of Honor. Net Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $190 million, or 15 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $259 million decrease from the Left 4 Dead, Need for Speed, Rock Band, and Fight Night franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $95 million increase from the release of the Medal of Honor and Harry Potter franchises in the current period, with no comparable releases from these franchises during the three months ended December 31, 2009. North America For the three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in North America was $697 million, driven by Medal of Honor, Madden 11, and Need for Speed Hot Pursuit . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $83 million, or 11 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $222 million decrease from the Left 4 Dead, Dragon Age, Rock Band, and NBA Live franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $140 million increase from the Medal of Honor and Need for Speed franchises. Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased $82 million, or 20 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $178 million increase from the Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, and The Sims franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $96 million decrease from the Dragon Age and NBA Live franchises. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 remained flat as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. For the three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue in North America was $528 million, driven by Madden 11, NCAA Football 11, and Medal of Honor . Net Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $165 million, or 24 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $180 million decrease from the Left 4 Dead, Rock Band, Fight Night, Need for Speed, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $40 million increase from the Medal of Honor and Harry Potter franchises. Europe For the three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Europe was $640 million, driven by FIFA 11, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, and Medal of Honor. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased $143 million, or 29 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $195 million increase from the Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, and The Sims franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $70 million decrease from the Dragon Age and Left 4 Dead franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro) decreased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $24 million, or 5 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral increased by approximately $167 million, or 34 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue Deferral for three months ended December 31, 2010 increased by $173 million, or 62 percent, as compared to three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $207 million increase from the Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, The Sims, and EA SPORTS Active franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $52 million decrease from the Dragon Age franchise and Brutal Legend . 40 Table of Contents The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased $18 million, or 7 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $70 million increase from the FIFA, Medal of Honor, and FIFA World Cup franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $51 million decrease from the Need for Speed and The Sims franchises. For the three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue in Europe was $477 million, driven by FIFA 11, Medal of Honor, and Harry Potter and the Deadly Hallows Part 1. Net Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $12 million, or 2 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $63 million decrease from the Left 4 Dead and Need for Speed franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $49 million increase from the Medal of Honor and Harry Potter franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro) decreased reported Net Revenue by approximately $45 million, or 9 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue increased by approximately $33 million, or 7 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Asia For the three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Asia was $73 million, driven by Medal of Honor, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, and FIFA 11 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased by $4 million, or 6 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $17 million increase from Medal of Honor and The Sims franchises. This increase was partially offset by an $11 million decrease from the Left 4 Dead and Dragon Age franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen) increased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $5 million, or 7 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral decreased by approximately $1 million, or 1 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 increased $15 million, or 41 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $22 million increase from Medal of Honor, Need for Speed, and The Sims franchises. This increase was partially offset by an $8 million decrease from the Dragon Age and NBA Live franchises. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $2 million, or 7 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $9 million decrease from the Need for Speed, The Sims, and Fight Night franchises as well as Grand Slam Tennis . This decrease was partially offset by a $7 million increase from the Medal of Honor and FIFA World Cup franchises. For the three months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue in Asia was $48 million, driven by FIFA 11, Medal of Honor, and EA SPORTS FIFA Online 2 . Net Revenue for the three months ended December 31, 2010 decreased by $13 million, or 21 percent, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $17 million decrease from the Left 4 Dead, Need for Speed, Fight Night, The Sims, and Rock Band franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $7 million increase from Medal of Honor and FIFA World Cup franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian Dollar and Japanese Yen) increased reported Net Revenue by approximately $8 million, or 13 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue decreased by approximately $21 million, or 34 percent, for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. 41 Table of Contents From a geographical perspective, our total Net Revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in millions): Nine Months Ended December 31, 2010 2009 North America Europe Asia Total North America Europe Asia Total Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral $ 1,433 $ 1,260 $ 140 $ 2,833 $ 1,867 $ 1,275 $ 167 $ 3,309 Revenue Deferral (995 ) (914 ) (94 ) (2,003 ) (934 ) (740 ) (84 ) (1,758 ) Recognition of Revenue Deferral 868 710 91 1,669 582 480 62 1,124 Net Revenue $ 1,306 $ 1,056 $ 137 $ 2,499 $ 1,515 $ 1,015 $ 145 $ 2,675 Worldwide For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral was $2,833 million, driven by FIFA 11, Madden 11, and Medal of Honor. Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $476 million, or 14 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $607 million decrease from the Rock Band, Left 4 Dead, Dragon Age, Fight Night, and Tiger Woods PGA Tour franchises. The decrease is partially offset by an increase of $287 million from the release of the Medal of Honor and FIFA World Cup franchises in the current period, with no comparable releases from these franchises during the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $245 million, or 14 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was due to an increase in sales of online-enabled products with an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content on a when and if available basis during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $381 million increase from the Medal of Honor, FIFA World Cup, and FIFA franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $165 million decrease from the Dragon Age and Fight Night franchises. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $545 million, or 48 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was primarily due to the Recognition of Revenue Deferral during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 associated with the sales of online-enabled products with an obligation to provide future incremental unspecified digital content on a when and if available basis during the last half of fiscal year 2010, with less comparable recognition during the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $501 million increase from the Battlefield, FIFA World Cup, FIFA, and Mass Effect franchises. For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue was $2,499 million, driven by Battlefield: Bad Company 2 , FIFA 11 , and Madden 11. Net Revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $176 million, or 7 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $491 million decrease from the Rock Band, Left 4 Dead, and EA SPORTS Active franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $352 million increase from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises. North America For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in North America was $1,433 million, driven by Madden 11, Medal of Honor, and NCAA Football 11 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $434 million, or 23 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $451 million decrease from the Rock Band, Left 4 Dead, Dragon Age, Fight Night, and EA SPORTS Active franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $119 million increase from the Medal of Honor and FIFA World Cup franchises. Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $61 million, or 7 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $153 million increase from the Medal of Honor, FIFA World Cup, and EA SPORTS Active franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $105 million decrease from the Dragon Age and Fight Night franchises. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $286 million, or 49 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $278 million increase from the Battlefield, Mass Effect, Dragon Age, and FIFA World Cup franchises as well as Dantes Inferno . This increase is partially offset by a $80 million decrease from the Fight Night and Tiger Woods PGA Tour franchises. 42 Table of Contents For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue in North America was $1,306 million, driven by Battlefield: Bad Company 2 , Madden 11, and NCAA Football 11 . Net Revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $209 million, or 14 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $419 million decrease from the Rock Band, Left 4 Dead, EA SPORTS Active, and Fight Night franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $208 million increase from the Battlefield, Mass Effect, and Dragon Age franchises. Europe For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Europe was $1,260 million, driven by FIFA 11, Need for Speed Hot Pursuit, and Medal of Honor . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 decreased $15 million, or 1 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $164 million decrease from the Rock Band, The Sims, Left 4 Dead, Dragon Age, and Fight Night franchises. The decrease was partially offset by a $145 million increase from the Medal of Honor and FIFA World Cup franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro) decreased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $53 million, or 4 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral increased by approximately $38 million, or 3 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased by $174 million, or 24 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $216 million increase from the Medal of Honor, FIFA, and FIFA World Cup franchises. This increase was offset by a $68 million decrease from The Sims and Dragon Age franchises. The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $230 million, or 48 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $212 million increase from the Battlefield, FIFA World Cup, and FIFA franchises. For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue in Europe was $1,056 million, driven by FIFA 11, Battlefield: Bad Company 2 , and FIFA 10 . Net Revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $41 million, or 4 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $167 million increase from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $124 million decrease from the Need for Speed, Rock Band and Left 4 Dead franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Euro) decreased reported Net Revenue by approximately $77 million, or 8 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue increased by approximately $118 million, or 12 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009 Asia For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral in Asia was $140 million, driven by FIFA 11, Medal of Honor , and EA SPORTS FIFA Online 2 . Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 decreased by $27 million, or 16 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $24 million decrease from Rock Band, Left 4 Dead, EA SPORTS Active, and Dragon Age franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian Dollar) increased reported Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral by approximately $10 million, or 6 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral, we estimate that Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral decreased by approximately $37 million, or 22 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $10 million, or 12 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $23 million increase from the Medal of Honor and FIFA World Cup franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $12 million decrease from the Dragon Age and Fight Night franchises as well as Grand Slam Tennis . 43 Table of Contents The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 increased $29 million, or 47 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This increase was driven by a $34 million increase from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises as well as Dantes Inferno . This increase was partially offset by a $9 million decrease from the Need for Speed and Fight Night franchises. For the nine months ended December 31, 2010, Net Revenue in Asia was $137 million, driven by Battlefield: Bad Company 2, EA SPORTS FIFA Online 2 , and 2010 FIFA WORLD CUP SOUTH AFRICA . Net Revenue for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 decreased by $8 million, or 6 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was driven by a $33 million decrease from the Need for Speed, Rock Band, EA SPORTS Active, Left 4 Dead, and The Sims franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $29 million increase from the Battlefield and FIFA World Cup franchises. We estimate that foreign exchange rates (primarily the Australian Dollar) increased reported Net Revenue by approximately $16 million, or 11 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Excluding the effect of foreign exchange rates from Net Revenue, we estimate that Net Revenue decreased by approximately $24 million, or 17 percent, for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Revenue before Revenue Deferral is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral on Net Revenue related to packaged goods games and digital content. We defer Net Revenue from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we are not able to objectively determine the fair value (as defined by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States for software sales) of the online service that we provide in connection with the sale. We recognize the revenue from these games over the estimated online service period. We also defer Net Revenue from sales of certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for which we had an obligation to deliver incremental unspecified digital content in the future without an additional fee. We recognize the revenue for these games on a straight-line basis over the estimated period of game play. We believe that excluding the impact of Revenue Deferral and the Recognition of Revenue Deferral related to packaged goods games and digital content from our operating results is important to facilitate comparisons between periods in understanding our underlying sales performance for the period. We use this non-GAAP measure internally to evaluate our operating performance, when planning, forecasting and analyzing future periods, and when assessing the performance of our management team. While we believe that this non-GAAP financial measure is useful in evaluating our business, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation from or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, this non-GAAP financial measure may not be the same as non-GAAP measures presented by other companies. Cost of Goods Sold Cost of goods sold for our packaged-goods business consists of (1) product costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports and other organizations and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post-launch prepaid royalty costs, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of goods sold for our online products consists primarily of data center and bandwidth costs associated with hosting our web sites, credit card fees and royalties for use of third-party properties. Cost of goods sold for our web site advertising business primarily consists of server costs. Cost of goods sold for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Net Revenue Three months ended $ 586 55.7 % $ 654 52.6 % (10.4 %) 3.1 % Nine months ended $ 1,171 46.9 % $ 1,568 58.6 % (25.3 %) (11.7 %) 44 Table of Contents During the three months ended December 31, 2010, cost of goods sold increased by 3.1 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This increase as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to a $254 million increase in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for the three months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009, which negatively impacted gross profit as a percent of total net revenue by 10.0 percentage points. This increase was partially offset by a greater percentage of net revenue from EA studio products, which have a higher margin than our co-publishing and distribution products, which positively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by approximately 6.9 percent. During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, cost of goods sold decreased by 11.7 percent as a percentage of total net revenue as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to (1) a greater percentage of net revenue from EA studio products, which have a higher margin than our co-publishing and distribution products, which positively impacted gross profit as a percentage of total net revenue by approximately 5.9 percent and (2) a $300 million decrease in the change in deferred net revenue related to certain online-enabled packaged goods and digital content for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009, which positively impacted gross profit as a percent of total net revenue by 5.8 percentage points. Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs and advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 253 24 % $ 208 17 % $ 45 22 % Nine months ended $ 553 22 % $ 559 21 % $ (6 ) (1 %) Marketing and sales expenses increased by $45 million, or 22 percent, during the three months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily due to a $37 million increase in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses primarily due to incremental spending on established franchises. Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $6 million, or 1 percent, during the nine months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. The decrease was primarily due to an $18 million decrease in marketing, advertising and promotional expenses resulting from a decrease in the number of titles released during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was partially offset by a $10 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily related to incentive-based and stock-based compensation expenses. General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 75 7 % $ 84 7 % $ (9 ) (11 %) Nine months ended $ 226 9 % $ 241 9 % $ (15 ) (6 %) General and administrative expenses decreased by $9 million, or 11 percent, during the three months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily due to (1) a decrease in facilities- related expenses of $9 million and (2) a $5 million decrease in contracted services due to costs related to the support of business development projects in the prior year. The overall decreases were partially offset by a $9 million increase in personnel-related costs. 45 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses decreased by $15 million, or 6 percent, during the nine months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily due to (1) a $25 million decrease in facilities-related expenses, primarily as a result of the $14 million loss on our lease obligation related to our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities during the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and (2) a $9 million decrease in contracted services due to costs related to the support of business development projects in the prior year. The overall decreases were partially offset by (1) an increase of $12 million in incentive-based compensation expense, (2) an increase of $9 million in additional personnel-related costs, and (3) an increase of $8 million in stock-based compensation expense. Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with the development of web site content, software licenses and maintenance, network infrastructure and management overhead. Research and development expenses for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 273 26 % $ 290 23 % $ (17 ) (6 %) Nine months ended $ 825 33 % $ 918 34 % $ (93 ) (10 %) Research and development expenses decreased by $17 million, or 6 percent, during the three months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the three months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in expenses resulting from our cost reduction initiatives including (1) a decrease of $9 million in external development and contracted services and (2) a decrease of $6 million in personnel-related costs. Research and development expenses decreased by $93 million, or 10 percent, during the nine months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009. This decrease was primarily due to decreases in expenses resulting from our cost reduction initiatives including (1) a decrease of $48 million in external development and contracted services, (2) a decrease of $39 million in additional personnel-related costs, and (3) a decrease of $23 million in facilities-related expenses primarily due to lower depreciation expense. These decreases were partially offset by a $17 million increase in incentive-based compensation expense. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 was as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 14 1 % $ 14 1 % $ Nine months ended $ 44 2 % $ 38 1 % $ 6 16 % During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, amortization of intangibles increased by $6 million, or 16 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to amortization of intangibles related to our acquisition of Playfish. 46 Table of Contents Acquisition-Related Contingent Consideration Acquisition-related contingent consideration related to Playfish decreased $25 million for the nine months ended December 31, 2010, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009, resulting from a revision in our estimate of the expected future cash flows over the period in which the contingent obligation is expected to be settled. Restructuring and Other Charges Restructuring and other charges for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 154 15 % $ 100 8 % $ 54 54 % Nine months ended $ 162 6 % $ 120 4 % $ 42 35 % Fiscal 2011 Restructuring During the quarter ended December 31, 2010, we announced details of a plan focused on the restructuring of certain licensing and developer agreements in an effort to improve the long-term profitability of our packaged goods business. Under this plan, we amended certain licensing and developer agreements. To a much lesser extent, as part of this restructuring we have had and will continue to have, workforce reductions and facilities closures through March 31, 2011. Substantially all of these exit activities were completed during the quarter ended December 31, 2010. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010, we have incurred charges of $151 million, consisting of (1) $104 million related to the amendment of certain licensing agreements and other intangible asset impairment costs, (2) $31 million related to the amendment of certain developer agreements, and (3) $16 million in employee-related expenses. During the remainder of fiscal year 2011, we anticipate incurring less than $5 million of restructuring and other charges related to the fiscal 2011 restructuring. Overall, including $151 million in charges incurred through December 31, 2010, we expect to incur total cash and non-cash charges between $170 million and $180 million by June 2016. These charges will consist primarily of (1) charges, including accretion of interest expense, related to the amendment of certain licensing and developer agreements and other intangible asset impairment costs (approximately $160 million) and (2) employee-related costs (approximately $16 million). Under this plan, we expect to incur cash expenditures, including $21 million for the accretion of interest expense, of approximately (1) $12 million during the remainder of fiscal year 2011, (2) $37 million in fiscal year 2012, (3) $15 million in both fiscal years 2013 and 2014, (4) $11 million in fiscal year 2015, and (5) $40 million thereafter through June 2016. The actual cash expenditures are variable as they will be dependent upon the actual revenue we generate from certain games. Fiscal 2010 Restructuring In connection with our fiscal 2010 restructuring plan, during the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010, we incurred $3 million and $11 million of restructuring charges, respectively, primarily due to costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred $96 million of restructuring charges of which (1) $63 million were for employee-related expenses, (2) $27 million related to intangible asset impairment costs, abandoned rights to intellectual property, and costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions, and (3) $6 million related to the closure of certain of our facilities. During the remainder of fiscal year 2011, we anticipate incurring less than $5 million of restructuring charges related to the fiscal 2010 restructuring. Other Restructurings In connection with our fiscal 2009 restructuring plan and fiscal 2008 reorganization plan, during the nine months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred $14 million and $10 million of restructuring charges, respectively, primarily for facilities-related expenses under the fiscal 2009 plan and contracted services costs to assist in the reorganization of our business support functions under the fiscal 2008 plan. We do not expect to incur any additional charges under these plans. 47 Table of Contents Gains (Losses) on Strategic Investments, Net Gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 % of Net Revenue December 31, 2009 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ $ (1 ) $ 1 100 % Nine months ended $ 23 1 % $ (25 ) (1 %) $ 48 192 % During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, gains (losses) on strategic investments, net, increased by $48 million, or 192 percent, as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to a realized gain of $28 million, net of costs to sell, from the sale of our investment in Ubisoft. During the three and nine months ended December 31, 2009, we recognized impairment charges of $1 million and $25 million, respectively, on our investment in The9. Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as follows (in millions): December 31, 2010 Effective Tax Rate December 31, 2009 Effective Tax Rate Three months ended $ 19 6.3 % $ (28 ) (24.9 %) Nine months ended $ (1 ) (0.2 %) $ (79 ) (10.0 %) The tax expense reported for the three months ended December 31, 2010 and the tax benefit reported for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 are based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal 2011, and also includes certain discrete tax charges and benefits recorded during the period. Our effective tax rates for the three and nine months ended December 31, 2010 were tax expense of 6.3 percent and tax benefit of 0.2 percent, respectively, compared to a tax benefit of 24.9 percent and 10.0 percent for the same periods in fiscal 2010. The effective tax rate for the three months ended December 31, 2010 differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized and non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit. The effective tax rate for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 differs from the statutory rate of 35.0 percent primarily due to U.S. losses for which no benefit is recognized and non-U.S. losses with a reduced or zero tax benefit, partially offset by changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance and tax benefits related to the expiration of statutes of limitations and resolution of examinations by taxing authorities. Our effective income tax rates for fiscal year 2011 and future periods will depend on a variety of factors, including changes in the deferred tax valuation allowance, as well as changes in our business such as acquisitions and intercompany transactions, changes in our international structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix of income, changes in or termination of our agreements with tax authorities, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in our annual pre-tax income or loss. We incur certain tax expenses that do not decline proportionately with declines in our pre-tax consolidated income or loss. As a result, in absolute dollar terms, our tax expense will have a greater influence on our effective tax rate at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss than at higher levels. In addition, at lower levels of pre-tax income or loss, our effective tax rate will be more volatile. 48 Table of Contents Certain taxable temporary differences that are not expected to reverse during the carry forward periods permitted by tax law cannot be considered as a source of future taxable income that may be available to realize the benefit of deferred tax assets. For example, in determining the valuation allowance we recorded at June 30, 2009, we did not include as a source of future taxable income the taxable temporary difference related to the accumulated tax depreciation on our headquarters facilities in Redwood City, California. On July 13, 2009, we purchased our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities concurrent with the expiration and extinguishment of the lessors financing agreements. These facilities were subject to leases which expired in July 2009, and had been accounted for as operating leases. The total amount paid under the terms of the leases was $247 million, of which $233 million related to the purchase price of the facilities and $14 million was for the loss on our lease obligation. Therefore, in the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of approximately $31 million, consisting of approximately $6 million related to the loss on our lease obligation and a $25 million reduction in our valuation allowance due to the inclusion of a significant portion of the remaining taxable temporary difference as a source of future taxable income. We historically have considered undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010 (the Act) was signed into law on December 17, 2010. The Act contains a number of provisions including, most notably, a two year extension of the research tax credit. The Act will not have a material impact on our effective tax rate for fiscal 2011 due to the effect of our current year loss and the related valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards In October 2009, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-13, Revenue Recognition (Topic 605) Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements . This guidance modifies the fair value requirements of FASB ASC subtopic 605-25, Revenue Recognition-Multiple Element Arrangements , by allowing the use of the best estimate of selling price in addition to vendor specific objective evidence and third-party evidence for determining the selling price of a deliverable for non-software arrangements. This guidance establishes a selling price hierarchy for determining the selling price of a deliverable, which is based on: (a) vendor-specific objective evidence, (b) third-party evidence, or (c) estimates. In addition, the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration is no longer permitted. ASU 2009-13 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009-13 to have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-14, Software (Topic 985) Certain Revenue Arrangements that Include Software Elements . This guidance modifies the scope of FASB ASC subtopic 985-605, Software-Revenue Recognition , to exclude from its requirements non-software components of tangible products and software components of tangible products that are sold, licensed, or leased with tangible products when the software components and non-software components of the tangible product function together to deliver the tangible products essential functionality. ASU 2009-14 is effective for fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. We do not expect the adoption of ASU 2009-14 to have a material impact on our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of December 31, 2010 As of March 31, 2010 Increase / (Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,353 $ 1,273 $ 80 Short-term investments 511 432 79 Marketable equity securities 107 291 (184 ) Total $ 1,971 $ 1,996 $ (25 ) Percentage of total assets 42 % 43 % Nine months Ended December 31, Increase / (Decrease) (In millions) 2010 2009 Cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 67 $ (101 ) $ 168 Cash used in investing activities (7 ) (471 ) 464 Cash provided by financing activities 17 38 (21 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents 3 27 (24 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 80 $ (507 ) $ 587 Changes in Cash Flow During the nine months ended December 31, 2010, we generated $67 million of cash in operating activities as compared to using $101 million of cash for the nine months ended December 31, 2009. The increase in cash provided by operating activities for the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009 was primarily due to our cost reduction initiatives, including decreases in external development and contracted services, as well as lower marketing and advertising spend as a result of a decrease in the number of titles released as compared to the same period in the prior year. Cash used in investing activities decreased $464 million during the nine months ended December 31, 2010 as compared to the nine months ended December 31, 2009 primarily due to a $262 million decrease in the acquisitions of subsidiaries primarily from Playfish during the nine months ended December 31, 2009 and a $233 million decrease resulting from the purchase of our Redwood Shores headquarters facilities during the nine months ended December 31, 2009. Short-term Investments and Marketable Equity Securities Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of December 31, 2010, our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of $2 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million, or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. The fair value of our marketable equity securities decreased to $107 million as of December 31, 2010 from $291 million as of March 31, 2010. This decrease was primarily due to (1) a $105 million decrease in the cost basis of our investments in Ubisoft and The9 as a result of the sale of these investments and (2) a $103 million decrease in the value of our investments that were sold during the period. These decreases were partially offset by a $27 million increase in the value of our investment in Neowiz. Receivables Our gross accounts receivable balances were $726 million and $423 million as of December 31, 2010 and March 31, 2010, respectively. The increase in our gross accounts receivable balance was primarily due to higher sales volumes in the third quarter of fiscal year 2011 as compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, which was expected as we traditionally have higher sales during our third quarter as compared to our fourth quarter. We expect our accounts receivable balance to decrease during the three months ending March 31, 2011 resulting from our collections and our lower seasonal sales volume. Reserves for sales returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts increased in absolute dollars from $217 million as of March 31, 2010 to $336 million as of December 31, 2010. As a percentage of trailing nine month net revenue, reserves increased from 7 percent as of March 31, 2010, to 13 percent as of December 31, 2010. We believe these reserves are adequate based on historical experience and our current estimate of potential returns, pricing allowances and doubtful accounts. 50 Table of Contents Inventories Inventories increased to $105 million as of December 31, 2010 from $100 million as of March 31, 2010, primarily as a result of inventory held in connection with the January 2011 release of Dead Space 2 . Other Current Assets and Other Assets Other current assets decreased to $226 million as of December 31, 2010, from $239 million as of March 31, 2010, while other assets increased to $200 million as of December 31, 2010, from $175 million as of March 31, 2010. Other current assets and other assets combined, increased by $12 million primarily due to (1) a $15 million increase in prepaid royalties, (2) a $12 million increase in other receivables, and (3) an $11 million increase in prepaid advertising. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $13 million decrease in prepaid income taxes and (2) an $11 million decrease in Value-Added Tax receivables. Accounts Payable Accounts payable increased to $162 million as of December 31, 2010, from $91 million as of March 31, 2010, primarily due to higher inventory purchases in conjunction with the seasonality of our business. Accrued and Other Current Liabilities and Other Liabilities Our accrued and other current liabilities increased to $746 million as of December 31, 2010 from $717 million as of March 31, 2010, while other liabilities increased to $173 million as of December 31, 2010 from $99 million as of March 31, 2010. Accrued and other current liabilities and other liabilities combined, increased by $103 million primarily due to (1) a $108 million increase in accrued restructuring from our fiscal 2011 restructuring plan and (2) a $67 million increase in marketing and advertising accruals to support our current-year releases. These increases were partially offset by (1) a $25 million decrease in contingent consideration resulting from a change in the fair value, (2) a $20 million decrease in deferred net revenue (other), and (3) a $13 million decrease in accrued royalties. Deferred Income Taxes, Net Our net deferred income tax asset position decreased by $34 million as of December 31, 2010 as compared to March 31, 2010, primarily due to the use of tax attributes to offset the final settlement with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the fiscal years 2000 through 2003 and the acquisition of Chillingo. Financial Condition We believe that cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, marketable equity securities, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures and, potentially, future acquisitions or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, and pursue strategic acquisitions and investments or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $904 million of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments and $107 million of our marketable equity securities were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we would be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $600 million of our common stock over the next 18 months. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. 51 Table of Contents We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under the program and the repurchase program may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts and, if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Development, Celebrity, League and Content Licenses: Payments and Commitments The products we produce in our studios are designed and created by our employee designers, artists, software programmers and by non-employee software developers (independent artists or third-party developers). We typically advance development funds to the independent artists and third-party developers during development of our games, usually in installment payments made upon the completion of specified development milestones. Contractually, these payments are generally considered advances against subsequent royalties on the sales of the products. These terms are set forth in written agreements entered into with the independent artists and third-party developers. In addition, we have certain celebrity, league and content license contracts that contain minimum guarantee payments and marketing commitments that may not be dependent on any deliverables. Celebrities and organizations with whom we have contracts include: FIFA, FIFPRO Foundation, FAPL (Football Association Premier League Limited), and DFL Deutsche Fuball Liga GmbH (German Soccer League) (professional soccer); National Basketball Association (professional basketball); PGA TOUR and Tiger Woods (professional golf); National Hockey League and NHL Players Association (professional hockey); Warner Bros. (Harry Potter); National Football League Properties, PLAYERS Inc., and Red Bear Inc. (professional football); Collegiate Licensing Company (collegiate football); ESPN (content in EA SPORTS games); Hasbro, Inc. (most of Hasbros toy and game intellectual properties); LucasArts and Lucas Licensing (Star Wars: The Old Republic), and the Estate of Robert Ludlum (Robert Ludlum novels and films). These developer and content license commitments represent the sum of (1) the cash payments due under non-royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements and (2) the minimum guaranteed payments and advances against royalties due under royalty-bearing licenses and services agreements, the majority of which are conditional upon performance by the counterparty. These minimum guarantee payments and any related marketing commitments are included in the table below. 52 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our unrecognized minimum contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010, and the effect we expect them to have on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods (in millions): Contractual Obligations Fiscal Year Ending March 31, Leases (a) Developer/ Licensor Commitments Marketing Other Purchase Obligations Total 2011 (remaining three months) $ 13 $ 30 $ 18 $ 1 $ 62 2012 43 330 71 5 449 2013 35 180 36 3 254 2014 26 116 67 3 212 2015 21 106 32 2 161 Thereafter 24 452 128 604 Total $ 162 $ 1,214 $ 352 $ 14 $ 1,742 (a) See discussion on operating leases in the Off-Balance Sheet Commitments section below for additional information. Lease commitments have not been reduced by minimum sub-lease rentals for unutilized office space resulting from our reorganization activities of approximately $12 million due in the future under non-cancelable sub-leases. The amounts represented in the table above reflect our unrecognized minimum cash obligations for the respective fiscal years, but do not necessarily represent the periods in which they will be recognized and expensed in our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, the amounts in the table above are presented based on the dates the amounts are contractually due; however, certain payment obligations may be accelerated depending on the performance of our operating results. In addition to what is included in the table above, as of December 31, 2010, we had a liability for unrecognized tax benefits and an accrual for the payment of related interest totaling $235 million, of which approximately $51 million is offset by prior cash deposits to tax authorities for issues pending resolution. For the remaining liability, we are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate of when cash settlement with a taxing authority will occur. In addition to what is included in the table above as of December 31, 2010, in connection with our acquisitions, we may be required to pay an additional $110 million of cash consideration through March 31, 2014, that is contingent upon the achievement of certain performance milestones. As of December 31, 2010, we have accrued $43 million of contingent consideration on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet. On January 18, 2011, we received a Corporation Notice of Reassessment (the Notice) from the Canada Revenue Agency (CRA) claiming that we owe additional taxes, plus interest and penalties, for the 2004 and 2005 tax years. The incremental tax liability asserted by the CRA is $44 million, excluding interest and penalties. The Notice primarily relates to transfer pricing in connection with the reimbursement of costs for services rendered to our U.S. parent company by one of our subsidiaries in Canada. We do not agree with the CRAs position and we intend to file a Notice of Objection with the appeals department of the CRA. We do not believe the CRAs position has merit and accordingly, we have not adjusted our liability for uncertain tax positions as a result of the Notice. If, upon resolution, we are required to pay an amount in excess of our liability for uncertain tax positions for this matter, the incremental amounts due would result in additional charges to income tax expense. In determining such charges, we would consider whether any correlative relief should be included in the form of additional tax deductions in the U.S should we decide to seek such relief. As part of the appeals process, we may be required to make a cash deposit of a portion of the total assessment, including interest and penalties. OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS Lease Commitments As of December 31, 2010, we leased certain of our current facilities, furniture and equipment under non-cancelable operating lease agreements. We were required to pay property taxes, insurance and normal maintenance costs for certain of these facilities and any increases over the base year of these expenses on the remainder of our facilities. Director Indemnity Agreements We entered into indemnification agreements with each of the members of our Board of Directors at the time they joined the Board to indemnify them to the extent permitted by law against any and all liabilities, costs, expenses, amounts paid in settlement and damages incurred by the directors as a result of any lawsuit, or any judicial, administrative or investigative proceeding in which the directors are sued or charged as a result of their service as members of our Board of Directors. 53 Table of Contents