Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations CAUTIONARY NOTE ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This Quarterly Report contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, made in this Quarterly Report are forward looking. Examples of forward-looking statements include statements related to industry prospects, our future economic performance including anticipated revenues and expenditures, results of operations or financial position, and other financial items, our business plans and objectives, including our intended product releases, and may include certain assumptions that underlie the forward-looking statements. We use words such as anticipate, believe, expect, intend, estimate (and the negative of any of these terms), future and similar expressions to help identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to business and economic risk and reflect managements current expectations, and involve subjects that are inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. Our actual results could differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We will not necessarily update information if any forward-looking statement later turns out to be inaccurate. Risks and uncertainties that may affect our future results include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this report under the heading Risk Factors in Part II, Item 1A, as well as in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on May 27, 2016 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. OVERVIEW The following overview is a high-level discussion of our operating results, as well as some of the trends and drivers that affect our business. Management believes that an understanding of these trends and drivers provides important context for our results for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 , as well as our future prospects. This summary is not intended to be exhaustive, nor is it intended to be a substitute for the detailed discussion and analysis provided elsewhere in this Form 10-Q, including in the remainder of Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A), Risk Factors, and the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Additional information can be found in the Business section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 as filed with the SEC on May 27, 2016 and in other documents we have filed with the SEC. About Electronic Arts We are a global leader in digital interactive entertainment. We develop, market, publish and distribute games content and services that can be played by consumers on a variety of platforms, which include consoles (such as the PlayStation from Sony and the Xbox from Microsoft), PCs, mobile phones and tablets. Some of our games are based on our wholly-owned intellectual property ( e.g. , Battlefield, Mass Effect, Need for Speed, The Sims and Plants vs. Zombies), and some of our games leverage content that we license from others ( e.g. , FIFA, Madden NFL and Star Wars). We also publish and distribute games developed by third parties ( e.g. , Titanfall). Our products and services may be purchased through multiple distribution channels, including physical and online retailers, platform providers such as console manufacturers, providers of free-to-download PC games, mobile carriers and directly through Origin, our own digital distribution platform. Financial Results Our key financial results for our quarter ended September 30, 2016 were as follows: Total net revenue was $898 million , up 10 percent year-over-year. On a constant currency basis, we estimate that total net revenue would have been $931 million, up 14 percent year over year. Digital revenue was $566 million , up 13 percent year-over-year. International net revenue was $509 million , up 17 percent year-over-year. Gross margin was 55.3 percent . Operating expenses were $546 million . On a constant currency basis, we estimate that total operating expenses would have been $551 million, up less than 1 percent year over year. Net loss was $38 million , with diluted losses per share of $0.13 . Total cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments was $3,266 million . From time to time, we will make comparisons of current periods to prior periods with reference to constant currency. Constant currency comparisons are based on translating local currency amounts in the current period at actual foreign exchange rates from the prior comparable period. We evaluate our financial performance on a constant currency basis in order to facilitate period-to-period comparisons without regard to the impact of changing foreign currency exchange rates. 30 Table of Contents Trends in Our Business Digital Transformation . Our business continues to transform from a traditional packaged goods business model to one in which our games and services are sold and delivered digitally, with additional content, features and services helping to extend the life of our packaged goods and digital games. For example, the Ultimate Team mode incorporated into iterations of our FIFA, Madden NFL and NHL franchises and expansion packs available digitally for our Star Wars, Battlefield and Sims franchises have kept many of our players engaged with those games for longer periods of time. Our digital transformation is also creating opportunities in platforms, content models and modalities of play. For example, we have leveraged franchises typically associated with consoles and traditional PC gaming, such as FIFA, Madden NFL, The Sims, SimCity and Star Wars, to create mobile and PC free-to-download games that are monetized through a business model through which we sell incremental content and/or features in discrete transactions. We also provide our EA Access service for the Xbox One and Origin Access service on PC which offer players access to a selection of EA games and other benefits for a monthly or annual fee. Our digital transformation also gives us the opportunity to strengthen our player network. We are investing in a technology foundation to enable us to build player relationships that can last for years instead of for days or weeks by connecting our players to us and to each other. This connection allows us to market and deliver content and services for popular franchises like FIFA, Battlefield and Star Wars to our players more efficiently. That same foundation also enables new player-centric ways to discover and try new experiences, such as our subscription-based EA Access and Origin Access services. We significantly increased our digital net revenue from $1,833 million in fiscal year 2014 to $2,199 million in fiscal year 2015 and $2,409 million during fiscal year 2016. We expect this portion of our business to continue to grow through fiscal year 2017 and beyond as we continue to focus on developing and monetizing products and services that can be delivered digitally. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates. International sales are a fundamental part of our business, and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar (particularly relative to the Euro, British pound sterling, Australian dollar, Chinese yuan and South Korean won) has a negative impact on our reported international net revenue, but a positive impact on our reported international operating expenses (particularly the Swedish krona and Canadian dollar) because these amounts are translated at lower rates as compared to periods in which the U.S. Dollar is weaker. Volatility in exchange rates remains elevated as compared to historical standards, and macroeconomic events like the United Kingdoms vote to leave the European Union are injecting even more uncertainty. While we use foreign currency hedging contracts to mitigate some foreign currency exchange risk, these activities are limited in the protection that they provide us and can themselves result in losses. Mobile and PC Free-to-Download Games . The proliferation of mobile phones and tablets has significantly increased the consumer base for mobile games. The broad consumer acceptance of business models which allow consumers to try new games with no up-front cost and pay for additional content or in-game items, has led to growth in the mobile gaming industry. Likewise, the mass introduction and wide consumer acceptance of free-to-download, micro-transaction-based PC games played over the Internet has also broadened our consumer base. We expect revenue generated from mobile and PC free-to-download games to remain an important part of our business. We track an estimate of monthly active users (MAUs) for our mobile business, which we believe is a useful indicator of player engagement trends for that business. For the three months ended September 30, 2016 , we had average MAUs of over 145 million. MAUs are the aggregate number of individuals who accessed a particular game on a particular device in the last 30 days as of the measurement date. For our calculation, an individual who either plays two of our games on a single device, or the same game on two devices in the relevant period, would be counted as two users. Average MAUs for a particular period is the average of the MAUs at each month-end during that period. MAUs are calculated using internal company data based on tracking the activity of user accounts. We also include in this calculation data provided by our third party publishing partners for certain games that we develop but we exclude information from third party titles that we publish. From time to time, we adjust the calculation for user activity that is inconsistent with our methodology. We believe that the numbers are reasonable estimates of our user base for the applicable period of measurement; however, factors relating to user activity may impact these numbers. Our methodology for calculating MAUs may differ from the methodology used by other companies to calculate this metric. Concentration of Sales Among the Most Popular Games . In all major segments of our industry, we see a large portion of games sales concentrated on the most popular titles, and many of those titles are sequels of prior games. Similarly, a significant portion of our revenue historically has been derived from games and services based on a few popular franchises, several of which we have released on an annual or bi-annual basis. For example, in fiscal year 2016, net revenue generated from the sale of products and services associated with our three largest franchises accounted for approximately 55 percent of our net revenue. We expect this trend to continue. 31 Table of Contents Recurring Revenue Sources. Our business model includes revenue that we deem recurring in nature, such as revenue from our annualized titles (such as FIFA and Madden NFL) and associated services, our ongoing mobile business and subscription programs. We have greater confidence in our ability to forecast revenue from these areas of our business than for new offerings. As we continue to leverage the digital transformation in our industry and incorporate new content models and modalities of play into our games, our goal is to continue to look for opportunities to expand the recurring portion of our business. Net Sales . In order to improve transparency into our business, we have introduced an operating performance metric, net sales. Net sales is defined as the net amount of products and services sold digitally or sold-in physically in the period. Net sales were $1.10 billion for the three months ended September 30, 2016, driven by successful sports launches and growth in our mobile business. Net sales decreased $48 million or 4%, from the three months ended September 30, 2015 due primarily to the timing of our FIFA launches. FIFA 17 was launched four days before the end of the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2016, while FIFA 16 launched eleven days before the end of the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2015. Digital net sales were $486 million for the three months ended September 30, 2016, an increase of $6 million or 1% from the three months ended September 30, 2015. The increase in digital net sales was driven by year-over-year growth in mobile and full game downloads, partially offset by a year-over-year decrease in extra content, driven primarily by the first week of FIFA 17 digital sales, almost all of which will be captured in the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2016. Recent Developments Stock Repurchase Program. In May 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program expires on May 31, 2017. During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , we repurchased approximately 1.6 million shares for approximately $127 million under this program. During the six months ended September 30, 2016 , we repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares for approximately $256 million under this program. We continue to actively repurchase shares. In February 2016, we announced a new $500 million stock repurchase program. This new program was incremental to the existing two-year $1 billion stock repurchase program announced in May 2015. We completed repurchases under the February 2016 program during the quarter ended March 31, 2016. We repurchased approximately 7.8 million shares for approximately $500 million under this new program. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S. GAAP). The preparation of these Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent assets and liabilities, and revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical because they are not only important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, but also because application and interpretation of these policies requires both management judgment and estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain and unknown. As a result, actual results may differ materially from our estimates. Revenue Recognition, Sales Returns and Allowances, and Bad Debt Reserves We derive revenue principally from sales of interactive software games, and related content ( e.g ., micro-transactions) and services on consoles (such as the PlayStation from Sony and the Xbox from Microsoft), PCs, mobile phones and tablets. We evaluate revenue recognition based on the criteria set forth in FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 605, Revenue Recognition and ASC 985-605, Software: Revenue Recognition . We classify our revenue as either product revenue or service and other revenue. Product revenue. Our product revenue includes revenue associated with the sale of software games or related content, whether delivered via a physical disc ( e . g ., packaged goods) or delivered digitally ( e.g., full-game downloads, extra-content), and licensing of game software to third-parties. Product revenue also includes revenue from mobile full game downloads that do not require our hosting support ( e.g. , premium mobile games) in order to utilize the game or related content ( i.e. can be played with or without an Internet connection), and sales of tangible products such as hardware, peripherals, or collectors items. Service and other revenue. Our service revenue includes revenue recognized from time-based subscriptions and games or related content that requires our hosting support in order to utilize the game or related content ( i.e. , can only be played with an Internet connection). This includes (1) entitlements to content that are accessed through hosting services ( e.g., micro-transactions for Internet-based, social network and free-to-download mobile games), (2) massively multi-player online 32 Table of Contents (MMO) games (both software game and subscription sales), (3) subscriptions for our Battlefield Premium, EA Access, and Pogo-branded online game services, and (4) allocated service revenue from sales of software games with an online service element ( i.e., matchmaking service). Our other revenue includes advertising and non-software licensing revenue. With respect to the allocated service revenue from sales of software games with a matchmaking service mentioned above, our allocation of proceeds between product and service revenue for presentation purposes is based on managements best estimate of the selling price of the matchmaking service with the residual value allocated to product revenue. Our estimate of the selling price of the matchmaking service is comprised of several factors including, but not limited to, prior selling prices for the matchmaking service, prices charged separately by other third-party vendors for similar service offerings, and a cost-plus-margin approach. We review the estimated selling price of the online matchmaking service on a regular basis and use this methodology consistently to allocate revenue between product and service for software game sales with a matchmaking service. We evaluate and recognize revenue when all four of the following criteria are met: Evidence of an arrangement . Evidence of an agreement with the customer that reflects the terms and conditions to deliver the related products or services must be present. Fixed or determinable fee . If a portion of the arrangement fee is not fixed or determinable, we recognize revenue as the amount becomes fixed or determinable. Collection is deemed probable . Collection is deemed probable if we expect the customer to be able to pay amounts under the arrangement as those amounts become due. If we determine that collection is not probable as the amounts become due, we generally conclude that collection becomes probable upon cash collection. Delivery . For packaged goods, delivery is considered to occur when a product is shipped and the risk of loss and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer. For digital downloads, delivery is considered to occur when the software is made available to the customer for download. For services and other, delivery is generally considered to occur as the service is delivered, which is determined based on the underlying service obligation. If there is significant uncertainty of acceptance, revenue is recognized once acceptance is reasonably assured. Online-Enabled Games The majority of our software games and related content have online connectivity whereby a consumer may be able to download unspecified content or updates on a when-and-if-available basis (unspecified updates) for use with the original game software. In addition, we may also offer an online matchmaking service that permits consumers to play against each other via the Internet without a separate fee. U.S. GAAP requires us to account for the consumers right to receive unspecified updates or the matchmaking service for no additional fee as a bundled sale, or multiple-element arrangement. We have an established historical pattern of providing unspecified updates ( e.g., player roster updates to Madden NFL 17 ) to online-enabled games and related content at no additional charge to the consumer. We do not have vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value (VSOE) for these unspecified updates, and thus, as required by U.S. GAAP, we recognize revenue from the sale of these online-enabled games and related content over the period we expect to offer the unspecified updates to the consumer (estimated offering period). Estimated Offering Period Because the offering period is not an explicitly defined period, we must make an estimate of the offering period. Determining the estimated offering period is inherently subjective and is subject to regular revision based on historical online usage. For example, in determining the estimated offering period for unspecified updates associated with our online-enabled games, we consider the period of time consumers are online as online connectivity is required. On an annual basis, we review consumers online gameplay of all online-enabled games that have been released 12 to 24 months prior to the evaluation date. For example, if our evaluation date is April 1, 2016, we evaluate all online-enabled games released between April 1, 2014 and March 31, 2015. Based on this population of games, for all players that register the game online within the first six months of release of the game to the general public, we compute the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game, based on when a player initially registers the game online to when that player last plays the game online. We then compute the weighted-average number of days for all online-enabled games by multiplying the weighted-average number of days for each online-enabled game by its relative percentage of total units sold from these online-enabled games ( i.e., a game with more units sold will have a higher weighting to the overall computation than a game with fewer units sold). Under a similar computation, we 33 Table of Contents also consider the estimated period of time between the date a game unit is sold to a reseller and the date the reseller sells the game unit to an end consumer ( i.e., time in channel). Based on these two calculations we then consider the method of distribution. For example , physical software games sold at retail would have a composite offering period equal to the online gameplay plus time in channel as opposed to digitally distributed software games which are delivered immediately via digital download and thus have no concept of channel. Additionally, we consider results from prior analyses, known and expected online gameplay trends, as well as disclosed service periods for competitors games in determining the estimated offering period for future sales. While we consistently apply this methodology, inherent assumptions used in this methodology include which online-enabled games to sample, whether to use only units that have registered online, whether to weight the number of days for each game, whether to weight the days based on the units sold of each game, determining the period of time between the date of sale to reseller and the date of sale to the consumer and assessing online gameplay trends. Other Multiple-Element Arrangements In some of our multiple-element arrangements, we sell tangible products with software and/or software-related offerings. These tangible products are generally either peripherals or ancillary collectors items, such as figurines and comic books. Revenue for these arrangements is allocated to each separate unit of accounting for each deliverable using the relative selling prices of each deliverable in the arrangement based on the selling price hierarchy described below. If the arrangement contains more than one software deliverable, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the software deliverables as a group and then allocated to each software deliverable. We determine the selling price for a tangible product deliverable based on the following selling price hierarchy: VSOE ( i.e. , the price we charge when the tangible product is sold separately) if available, third-party evidence (TPE) of fair value ( i.e. , the price charged by others for similar tangible products) if VSOE is not available, or our best estimate of selling price (BESP) if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. Determining the BESP is a subjective process that is based on multiple factors including, but not limited to, recent selling prices and related discounts, market conditions, customer classes, sales channels and other factors. Provided the other three revenue recognition criteria other than delivery have been met, we recognize revenue upon delivery to the customer as we have no further obligations. We must make assumptions and judgments in order to (1) determine whether and when each element is delivered, (2) determine whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element, and (3) allocate the total price among the various elements, as applicable. Changes to any of these assumptions and judgments, or changes to the elements in the arrangement, could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. Principal Agent Considerations We evaluate sales of our interactive software games via third party storefronts, including digital storefronts such as Microsofts Xbox Games Store, Sony PSN, Apple App Store, and Google Play, in order to determine whether or not we are acting as the primary obligor in the sale to the end consumer, which we consider in determining if revenue should be reported gross or net of fees retained by the storefront. Key indicators that we evaluate in determining gross versus net treatment include but are not limited to the following: The party responsible for delivery/fulfillment of the product or service to the end consumer The party responsible for the billing, collection of fees and refunds to the end consumer The storefront and Terms of Sale that govern the end consumers purchase of the product or service The party that sets the pricing with the end consumer and has credit risk Based on evaluation of the above indicators, we have determined that generally the third party is considered the primary obligor to end consumers for the sale of our interactive software games. We therefore report revenue related to these arrangements net of the fees retained by the storefront. 34 Table of Contents Sales Returns and Allowances and Bad Debt Reserves We reduce revenue for estimated future returns and price protection which may occur with our distributors and retailers (channel partners). Price protection represents our practice to provide our channel partners with a credit allowance to lower their wholesale price on a particular product that they have not resold to end consumers. The amount of the price protection is generally the difference between the old wholesale price and the new reduced wholesale price. In certain countries for our PC and console packaged goods software products, we also have a practice of allowing channel partners to return older software products in the channel in exchange for a credit allowance. As a general practice, we do not give cash refunds. When evaluating the adequacy of sales returns and price protection allowances, we analyze the following: historical credit allowances, current sell-through of our channel partners inventory of our software products, current trends in retail and the video game industry, changes in customer demand, acceptance of our software products, and other related factors. In addition, we monitor the volume of sales to our channel partners and their inventories, as substantial overstocking in the distribution channel could result in high returns or higher price protection in subsequent periods. In the future, actual returns and price protections may materially exceed our estimates as unsold software products in the distribution channels are exposed to rapid changes in consumer preferences, market conditions or technological obsolescence due to new platforms, product updates or competing software products. While we believe we can make reliable estimates regarding these matters, these estimates are inherently subjective. Accordingly, if our estimates change, our returns and price protection allowances would change and would impact the total net revenue, accounts receivable and deferred net revenue that we report. We determine our allowance for doubtful accounts by evaluating the following: customer creditworthiness, current economic trends, historical experience, age of current accounts receivable balances, and changes in financial condition or payment terms of our customers. Significant management judgment is required to estimate our allowance for doubtful accounts in any accounting period. The amount and timing of our bad debt expense and cash collection could change significantly as a result of a change in any of the evaluation factors mentioned above. Royalties and Licenses Our royalty expenses consist of payments to (1) content licensors, (2) independent software developers, and (3) co-publishing and distribution affiliates. License royalties consist of payments made to celebrities, professional sports organizations, movie studios and other organizations for our use of their trademarks, copyrights, personal publicity rights, content and/or other intellectual property. Royalty payments to independent software developers are payments for the development of intellectual property related to our games. Co-publishing and distribution royalties are payments made to third parties for the delivery of products. Royalty-based obligations with content licensors and distribution affiliates are either paid in advance and capitalized as prepaid royalties or are accrued as incurred and subsequently paid. These royalty-based obligations are generally expensed to cost of revenue generally at the greater of the contractual rate or an effective royalty rate based on the total projected net revenue for contracts with guaranteed minimums. Significant judgment is required to estimate the effective royalty rate for a particular contract. Because the computation of effective royalty rates requires us to project future revenue, it is inherently subjective as our future revenue projections must anticipate a number of factors, including (1) the total number of titles subject to the contract, (2) the timing of the release of these titles, (3) the number of software units and amount of extra content that we expect to sell, which can be impacted by a number of variables, including product quality, number of platforms we release on, the timing of the titles release and competition, and (4) future pricing. Determining the effective royalty rate for our titles is particularly challenging due to the inherent difficulty in predicting the popularity of entertainment products. Furthermore, if we conclude that we are unable to make a reasonably reliable forecast of projected net revenue, we recognize royalty expense at the greater of contract rate or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Accordingly, if our future revenue projections change, our effective royalty rates would change, which could impact the amount and timing of royalty expense we recognize. Prepayments made to thinly capitalized independent software developers and co-publishing affiliates are generally made in connection with the development of a particular product, and therefore, we are generally subject to development risk prior to the release of the product. Accordingly, payments that are due prior to completion of a product are generally expensed to research and development over the development period as the services are incurred. Payments due after completion of the product (primarily royalty-based in nature) are generally expensed as cost of revenue. Our contracts with some licensors include minimum guaranteed royalty payments, which are initially recorded as an asset and as a liability at the contractual amount when no performance remains with the licensor. When performance remains with the 35 Table of Contents licensor, we record guarantee payments as an asset when actually paid and as a liability when incurred, rather than recording the asset and liability upon execution of the contract. Royalty liabilities are classified as current liabilities to the extent such royalty payments are contractually due within the next 12 months. Each quarter, we also evaluate the expected future realization of our royalty-based assets, as well as any unrecognized minimum commitments not yet paid to determine amounts we deem unlikely to be realized through product and service sales. Any impairments or losses determined before the launch of a product are generally charged to research and development expense. Impairments or losses determined post-launch are charged to cost of revenue. We evaluate long-lived royalty-based assets for impairment using undiscounted cash flows when impairment indicators exist. If impairment exists, then the assets are written down to fair value. Unrecognized minimum royalty-based commitments are accounted for as executory contracts, and therefore, any losses on these commitments are recognized when the underlying intellectual property is abandoned ( i.e. , cease use) or the contractual rights to use the intellectual property are terminated. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for both (1) the expected impact of differences between the financial statement amount and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and (2) the expected future tax benefit to be derived from tax losses and tax credit carryforwards. We record a valuation allowance against deferred tax assets when it is considered more likely than not that all or a portion of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. In making this determination, we are required to give significant weight to evidence that can be objectively verified. In addition to considering forecasts of future taxable income, we are also required to evaluate and quantify other possible sources of taxable income in order to assess the realization of our deferred tax assets, namely the reversal of existing deferred tax liabilities, the carry back of losses and credits as allowed under current tax law, and the implementation of tax planning strategies. Evaluating and quantifying these amounts involves significant judgments. Each source of income must be evaluated based on all positive and negative evidence; this evaluation involves assumptions about future activity. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we realized significant U.S. pre-tax income for both the fourth quarter and the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016. As of March 31, 2016, we had reported positive operating performance in the U.S. for two consecutive fiscal years and had also reported a cumulative three-year U.S. pre-tax profit. In addition, during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016, we completed our financial plan for fiscal year 2017 and expect continued positive operating performance in the U.S. We also considered forecasts of future taxable income and evaluated the utilization of tax credit carryforwards prior to their expiration. After considering these factors, we determined that the positive evidence overcame any negative evidence and concluded that it was more likely than not that the U.S. deferred tax assets were realizable. As a result, we released the valuation allowance against all of the U.S. federal deferred tax assets and a portion of the U.S. state deferred tax assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016. We continue to maintain a valuation allowance related to specific U.S. state deferred tax assets and foreign capital loss carryovers, due to uncertainty about the future realization of these assets. Historically, we have considered all undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested outside of the United States and, accordingly, no U.S. taxes have been provided thereon. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2016 we reevaluated our intent to indefinitely reinvest all earnings of foreign subsidiary companies, and concluded that a portion of earnings of certain subsidiaries will no longer be considered to be indefinitely reinvested. We currently intend to continue to indefinitely reinvest a substantial majority of the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries outside of the United States. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the tax law and ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each jurisdiction in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our uncertain tax positions in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues and require us to make judgments about the likely application of the tax law to our situation, as well as with respect to other matters, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of disputes with tax authorities. The ultimate resolution of these issues may take extended periods of time due to examinations by tax authorities and statutes of limitations. In addition, changes in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our international corporate structure, changes in the geographic location of business functions or assets, changes in the geographic mix and amount of income, as well as changes in our agreements with tax authorities, valuation allowances, applicable accounting rules, applicable tax laws and regulations, rulings and interpretations thereof, developments in tax audit and other matters, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income can affect the overall effective income tax rate. 36 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our fiscal year is reported on a 52- or 53-week period that ends on the Saturday nearest March 31. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2017 contains 52 weeks and ends on April 1, 2017. Our results of operations for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2016 contained 53 weeks and ended on April 2, 2016. Our results of operations for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 contained 13 weeks each and ended on October 1, 2016 and October 3, 2015 , respectively. Our results of operations for the six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 contained 26 and 27 weeks, respectively, and ended on October 1, 2016 and October 3, 2015 , respectively. For simplicity of disclosure, all fiscal periods are referred to as ending on a calendar month end. Net Revenue Net revenue consists of sales generated from (1) video games sold as packaged goods or as digital downloads and designed for play on consoles (such as the PlayStation from Sony and the Xbox from Microsoft) and PCs, (2) video games for mobile phones and tablets, (3) separate software products and extra-content and online game services associated with these products, (4) licensing our game software to third parties, (5) allowing other companies to manufacture and sell our products in conjunction with other products, and (6) advertisements on our online web pages and in our games. We recognize revenue from the sale of online-enabled games for which we do not have VSOE for the unspecified updates on a straight-line basis, generally over an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for physical games sold through retail and an estimated six-month period for digitally-delivered games and content. We provide two different measures of our Net Revenue. (1) Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue, and (2) Net Revenue by Revenue Composition, which is primarily based on method of distribution. Management places a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of the Net Revenue by Revenue Composition (Packaged goods and other, and Digital) than by Net Revenue by Product revenue and Service and other revenue. Net Revenue Quarterly Analysis Net Revenue For the three months ended September 30, 2016 , net revenue was $898 million and increased $83 million , or 10 percent , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was driven by a $251 million increase in revenue primarily from the Star Wars, Need for Speed, and UFC franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $168 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield, Dragon Age, and The Sims franchises . Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our net revenue by product revenue and service and other revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 420 $ 434 $ (14 ) (3 )% Service and other 478 381 97 25 % Total net revenue $ 898 $ 815 $ 83 10 % Product Revenue For the three months ended September 30, 2016 , product net revenue was $420 million , primarily driven by Star Wars Battlefront, FIFA 16 , and FIFA Online 3 in Asia. Product net revenue decreased $14 million , or 3 percent , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was driven by a $178 million decrease primarily from the Battlefield, Dragon Age, and FIFA franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $164 million increase primarily from Star Wars Battlefront and the UFC franchise. 37 Table of Contents Service and Other Revenue For the three months ended September 30, 2016 , service and other net revenue was $478 million , primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, Need for Speed 2015, and Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes. Service and other net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $97 million , or 25 percent , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was driven by a $127 million increase primarily from Need for Speed 2015 , FIFA Ultimate Team and the Star Wars franchise. This increase was partially offset by a $30 million decrease primarily from The Simpsons Tapped Out , Command and Conquer Tiberium Alliances , The Sims FreePlay , and Titanfall. Supplemental Net Revenue by Revenue Composition As we continue to evolve our business and more of our products are delivered to consumers digitally via the Internet, we place a greater emphasis and focus on assessing our business through a review of net revenue by revenue composition. Our net revenue by revenue composition for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change Full game downloads $ 94 $ 82 $ 12 15 % Extra content 240 213 27 13 % Subscriptions, advertising, and other 83 84 (1 ) (1 )% Mobile 149 123 26 21 % Total Digital $ 566 $ 502 $ 64 13 % Packaged goods and other $ 332 $ 313 $ 19 6 % Net revenue $ 898 $ 815 $ 83 10 % Digital Net Revenue Digital net revenue includes full-game downloads, extra content, subscriptions, advertising and other, and mobile revenue. Digital net revenue includes internally-developed and co-published game software distributed through our direct-to-consumer platform Origin, distributed wirelessly through mobile carriers, or licensed to our third-party publishing partners who distribute our games digitally. For the three months ended September 30, 2016 , digital net revenue was $566 million primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , FIFA Online 3 in Asia, and Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes . Digital net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $64 million , or 13 percent , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase is due to (1) a $27 million or 13 percent increase in extra content net revenue primarily driven by revenue associated with our Ultimate Team game mode, (2) a $26 million or 21 percent increase in mobile net revenue primarily driven by Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes , Need for Speed No Limits, and Madden NFL Mobile, and (3) a $12 million or 15 percent increase in full-game download net revenue primarily driven by Need for Speed 2015, Battlefield 4, and Star Wars Battlefront. These increases are partially offset by a $1 million or 1 percent decrease in subscription net revenue primarily due to Star Wars: The Old Republic. Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue Packaged goods and other net revenue includes revenue from software that is distributed physically. This includes (1) net revenue from our internally-developed and co-published game software distributed physically through traditional channels such as brick and mortar retailers, (2) our software licensing revenue from third parties (for example, makers of console platforms, personal computers or computer accessories) who include certain of our products for sale with their products (OEM bundles), and (3) revenue through our Switzerland distribution business. Other net revenue includes our non-software licensing revenue. For the three months ended September 30, 2016 , packaged goods and other net revenue was $332 million , primarily driven by Star Wars Battlefront, FIFA 16 , and Need for Speed 2015 . Packaged goods and other net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $19 million , or 6 percent , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This 38 Table of Contents increase was driven by an increase in sales primarily from the Star Wars and Need for Speed franchises, partially offset by the Battlefield franchise and Dragon Age: Inquisition . Change in Deferred Net Revenue (online-enabled games) Revenue Deferral generally relates to the deferral of revenue for sales of online-enabled games and content for which we do not have VSOE for unspecified updates to be delivered after the initial sale or for which we have a continuing service obligation. Recognition of Revenue Deferral generally relates to revenue that has been deferred and is recognized in the current fiscal period. Fluctuations in the Revenue Deferral are largely dependent upon the amounts of online-enabled games and content that we sell, while the Recognition of Revenue Deferral for a period is also dependent upon (1) the amount deferred, (2) the period of time the unspecified updates and service obligations are to be provided, and (3) the timing of the sale. Change in deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) is the net impact of Revenue Deferral and Recognition of Revenue Deferral. Our revenue from the sales of online-enabled games and content is generally deferred and recognized over an estimated nine-month period beginning in the month after shipment for physical games sold through retail and an estimated six-month period for digitally delivered games and content, and therefore, the related revenue recognized during the fiscal quarter ended September 30 is primarily due to revenue from sales that occurred during the preceding six-month period for digitally delivered games and content, and the preceding nine-month period for physical games sold through retail. Consequently, most Revenue Deferrals incurred in the first quarter of a fiscal year are recognized within the same fiscal year; however, substantially all of the Revenue Deferrals incurred in the last month of a fiscal year will be recognized in the subsequent fiscal year. Our Revenue Deferral and Recognition of Revenue Deferral, including the impact from related cash flow hedges, for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): Three Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change Digital $ 342 $ 336 $ 6 2 % Packaged goods and other 591 641 (50 ) (8 )% Revenue Deferral $ 933 $ 977 $ (44 ) (5 )% Digital $ (422 ) $ (358 ) $ (64 ) 18 % Packaged goods and other (311 ) (288 ) (23 ) 8 % Recognition of Revenue Deferral $ (733 ) $ (646 ) $ (87 ) 13 % Digital $ (80 ) $ (22 ) $ (58 ) 264 % Packaged goods and other 280 353 (73 ) (21 )% Change in deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) $ 200 $ 331 $ (131 ) (40 )% Revenue Deferral Digital Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $342 million, primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team, Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, and Madden Ultimate Team . Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $6 million, or 2 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . Packaged Goods and Other Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $591 million, primarily driven by FIFA 17 , Madden NFL 17 and NHL 17 . Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 decreased $50 million, or 8 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in Revenue Deferral due to FIFA 16 being launched one week earlier than FIFA 17 . 39 Table of Contents Recognition of Revenue Deferral Digital The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $422 million, primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, and The Sims 4 . The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $64 million, or 18 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was primarily due to an increase in the Recognition of Revenue Deferral from FIFA Ultimate Team, Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, and Star Wars Battlefront. Packaged Goods and Other The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 was $311 million, primarily driven by Star Wars Battlefront, FIFA 16 , and Madden NFL 16 . The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 increased $23 million, or 8 percent, as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was primarily a result of an increase in the Recognition of Revenue Deferral due to Star Wars Battlefront . Net Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Net Revenue For the six months ended September 30, 2016 , net revenue was $2,169 million and increased $151 million , or 7 percent , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was driven by a $538 million increase in revenue primarily from the Star Wars, Need for Speed and UFC franchises. This increase was partially offset by a $387 million decrease in revenue primarily from the Battlefield, Dragon Age, and The Sims franchises . Net Revenue by Product Revenue and Service and Other Revenue Our net revenue by product revenue and service and other net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): Six Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change Net revenue: Product $ 1,104 $ 1,177 $ (73 ) (6 )% Service and other 1,065 841 224 27 % Total net revenue $ 2,169 $ 2,018 $ 151 7 % Product Revenue For the six months ended September 30, 2016 , product net revenue was $1,104 million , primarily driven by Star Wars Battlefront, FIFA 16 , and Madden NFL 16 . Product net revenue decreased $73 million , or 6 percent , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was driven by a $441 million decrease primarily from the Battlefield, Dragon Age, and FIFA franchises. This decrease was partially offset by a $368 million increase primarily from Star Wars Battlefront and the UFC franchise. Service and Other Revenue For the six months ended September 30, 2016 , service and other net revenue was $1,065 million , primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Need for Speed 2015, and Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes. Service and other net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2016 increased $224 million , or 27 percent , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was driven by a $285 million increase primarily from Need for Speed 2015 , FIFA Ultimate Team and the Star Wars franchise. This increase was partially offset by a $61 million decrease primarily from The Simpsons Tapped Out , Titanfall, Command and Conquer Tiberium Alliances , and The Sims FreePlay. 40 Table of Contents Our net revenue by revenue composition for the six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): Six Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change Full game downloads $ 231 $ 201 $ 30 15 % Extra content 540 504 36 7 % Subscriptions, advertising, and other 170 155 15 10 % Mobile 314 265 49 18 % Total Digital $ 1,255 $ 1,125 $ 130 12 % Packaged goods and other $ 914 $ 893 $ 21 2 % Net revenue $ 2,169 $ 2,018 $ 151 7 % Digital Net Revenue For the six months ended September 30, 2016 , digital net revenue was $1,255 million primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , FIFA Online 3 in Asia, and Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes . Digital net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2016 increased $130 million , or 12 percent , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase is due to (1) a $49 million or 18 percent increase in mobile net revenue primarily driven by Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes , Madden NFL Mobile and Need for Speed No Limits, (2) a $36 million or 7 percent increase in extra content net revenue primarily driven by sales associated with our Ultimate Team game mode, (3) a $30 million or 15 percent increase in full-game download net revenue primarily driven by Star Wars Battlefront , Need for Speed 2015, and FIFA 16 , and (4) a $15 million or 10 percent increase in subscription net revenue primarily due to EA Access and Origin Access. Packaged Goods and Other Net Revenue For the six months ended September 30, 2016 , packaged goods and other net revenue was $914 million , primarily driven by FIFA 16 , Star Wars Battlefront , and Madden NFL 16 . Packaged goods and other net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2016 increased $21 million , or 2 percent , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was driven by an increase in revenue primarily from the Star Wars, Need for Speed and UFC franchises, partially offset by the Battlefield and FIFA franchises and Dragon Age: Inquisition . Change in Deferred Net Revenue (online-enabled games) Our Revenue Deferral and Recognition of Revenue Deferral, including the impact from related cash flow hedges, for the six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): Six Months Ended September 30, 2016 2015 $ Change % Change Digital $ 769 $ 705 $ 64 9 % Packaged goods and other 685 767 (82 ) (11 )% Revenue Deferral $ 1,454 $ 1,472 $ (18 ) (1 )% Digital $ (970 ) $ (818 ) $ (152 ) 19 % Packaged goods and other (873 ) (833 ) (40 ) 5 % Recognition of Revenue Deferral $ (1,843 ) $ (1,651 ) $ (192 ) 12 % Digital $ (201 ) $ (113 ) $ (88 ) 78 % Packaged goods and other (188 ) (66 ) (122 ) 185 % Change in deferred net revenue (online-enabled games) $ (389 ) $ (179 ) $ (210 ) 117 % 41 Table of Contents Revenue Deferral Digital Revenue Deferral for the six months ended September 30, 2016 was $769 million, primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, and The Sims 4 . Revenue Deferral for the six months ended September 30, 2016 increased $64 million, or 9 percent, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . Packaged Goods and Other Revenue Deferral for the six months ended September 30, 2016 was $685 million, primarily driven by FIFA 17 , Madden NFL 17 and NHL 17 . Revenue Deferral for the three months ended September 30, 2016 decreased $82 million, or 11 percent, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in Revenue Deferral due to Battlefield Hardline . Recognition of Revenue Deferral Digital The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the six months ended September 30, 2016 was $970 million, primarily driven by FIFA Ultimate Team , Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, and Star Wars Battlefront . The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the six months ended September 30, 2016 increased $152 million, or 19 percent, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was primarily due to an increase in the Recognition of Revenue Deferral from FIFA Ultimate Team, Star Wars: Galaxy of Heroes, and Star Wars Battlefront. Packaged Goods and Other The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the six months ended September 30, 2016 was $873 million, primarily driven by FIFA 16 , Star Wars Battlefront and Madden NFL 16 . The Recognition of Revenue Deferral for the six months ended September 30, 2016 increased $40 million, or 5 percent, as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This increase was primarily a result of an increase in the Recognition of Revenue Deferral due to Star Wars Battlefront, offset by Battlefield Hardline . Cost of Revenue Quarterly Analysis Cost of revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): September 30, 2016 % of Related Net Revenue September 30, 2015 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 317 75.5 % $ 335 77.2 % (5.4 )% (1.7 )% Service and other 84 17.6 % 74 19.4 % 13.5 % (1.8 )% Total cost of revenue $ 401 44.7 % $ 409 50.2 % (2.0 )% (5.5 )% Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue consists of (1) inventory costs, (2) certain royalty expenses for celebrities, professional sports, movie studios and other organizations, and independent software developers, (3) manufacturing royalties, net of volume discounts and other vendor reimbursements, (4) expenses for defective products, (5) write-offs of post launch prepaid royalty costs and losses on previously unrecognized licensed intellectual property commitments, (6) amortization of certain intangible assets, (7) personnel-related costs, and (8) warehousing and distribution costs. We generally recognize volume discounts when they are earned from the manufacturer (typically in connection with the achievement of unit-based milestones); whereas other vendor reimbursements are generally recognized as the related revenue is recognized. Cost of product revenue decreased by $18 million , or 5.4 percent during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory and royalty costs driven by Rory McIlroy PGA Tour, which did not have a comparable title in the current quarter. 42 Table of Contents Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue consists primarily of (1) royalty costs, (2) data center, bandwidth and server costs associated with hosting our online games and websites, (3) inventory costs, (4) platform processing fees from operating our website-based games on third party platforms, and (5) credit card fees associated with our service revenue. Cost of service and other revenue increased by $10 million , or 13.5 percent during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2016 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with FIFA Ultimate Team game mode. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 5.5 percent as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was primarily due to the recognition of revenue deferral from Star Wars Battlefront which increased net revenue for the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Cost of Revenue Year-to-Date Analysis Cost of revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 was as follows (in millions): September 30, 2016 % of Related Net Revenue September 30, 2015 % of Related Net Revenue % Change Change as a % of Related Net Revenue Cost of revenue: Product $ 407 36.9 % $ 429 36.4 % (5.1 )% 0.5 % Service and other 173 16.2 % 153 18.2 % 13.1 % (2.0 )% Total cost of revenue $ 580 26.7 % $ 582 28.8 % (0.3 )% (2.1 )% Cost of Product Revenue Cost of product revenue decreased by $22 million or 5.1 percent during the six months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was primarily due to a decrease in inventory and royalty costs driven by Rory McIlroy PGA Tour, launched during the six months ended September 30, 2015 , which did not have a comparable title in the current year. Cost of Service and Other Revenue Cost of service and other revenue increased by $20 million , or 13.1 percent during the six months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase was primarily due to an increase in costs associated with supporting our FIFA Ultimate Team service. Total Cost of Revenue as a Percentage of Total Net Revenue During the six months ended September 30, 2016 , total cost of revenue as a percentage of total net revenue decreased by 2.1% as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This decrease was primarily due to the recognition of revenue deferral from Star Wars Battlefront which increased net revenue for the six months ended September 30, 2015 . Research and Development Research and development expenses consist of expenses incurred by our production studios for personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, contracted services, depreciation and any impairment of prepaid royalties for pre-launch products. Research and development expenses for our online products include expenses incurred by our studios consisting of direct development and related overhead costs in connection with the development and production of our online games. Research and development expenses also include expenses associated with our digital platform, software licenses and maintenance, and management overhead. 43 Table of Contents Research and development expenses for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2016 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2015 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 291 32 % $ 265 33 % $ 26 10 % Six months ended $ 585 27 % $ 561 28 % $ 24 4 % Research and development expenses increased by $26 million , or 10 percent , during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This $26 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $12 million increase in personnel-related costs primarily resulting from increase in headcount and lower government tax incentives, (2) an $8 million increase in contracted services due to development advances to third-party developers primarily related to Star Wars and Battlefield 1 , and (3) a $6 million increase in facility-related costs. Research and development expenses increased by $24 million , or 4 percent , during the six months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This $24 million increase was primarily due to a $24 million increase in contracted services due to development advances to third-party developers primarily related to Star Wars and Battlefield 1 and a $5 million increase in facility-related costs, partially offset by an $8 million decrease due to gains from our cash flow hedging activities incurred during the six months ended September 30, 2016 . Marketing and Sales Marketing and sales expenses consist of personnel-related costs, related overhead costs, advertising, marketing and promotional expenses, net of qualified advertising cost reimbursements from third parties. Marketing and sales expenses for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2016 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2015 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 143 16 % $ 156 19 % $ (13 ) (8 )% Six months ended $ 271 12 % $ 279 14 % $ (8 ) (3 )% Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $13 million , or 8 percent , during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This $13 million decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in advertising for the Madden and FIFA franchises, partially offset by advertising expenses for Titanfall 2 during the three months ended September 30, 2016 . Marketing and sales expenses decreased by $8 million , or 3 percent , during the six months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This $8 million decrease was driven by a decrease in advertising on the Madden and FIFA franchises, partially offset by advertising expenses for Battlefield 1 and Titanfall 2 during the six months ended September 30, 2016 . General and Administrative General and administrative expenses consist of personnel and related expenses of executive and administrative staff, corporate functions such as finance, legal, human resources, and information technology, related overhead costs, fees for professional services such as legal and accounting, and allowances for doubtful accounts. General and administrative expenses for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2016 % of Net Revenue September 30, 2015 % of Net Revenue $ Change % Change Three months ended $ 111 12 % $ 101 12 % $ 10 10 % Six months ended $ 219 10 % $ 199 10 % $ 20 10 % General and administrative expenses increased by $10 million , or 10 percent , during the three months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the three months ended September 30, 2015 . This $10 million increase was primarily due to a $5 million increase in personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount and a $3 million increase in contracted services. 44 Table of Contents General and administrative expenses increased by $20 million , or 10 percent , during the six months ended September 30, 2016 , as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . This $20 million increase was primarily due to (1) a $6 million increase in facility-related expense primarily due to office expansions, (2) a $6 million increase in contracted services, and (3) a $5 million increase in personnel-related costs resulting from an increase in headcount. Income Taxes Provision for (benefit from) income taxes for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 and 2015 were as follows (in millions): September 30, 2016 Effective Tax Rate September 30, 2015 Effective Tax Rate Three months ended $ (14 ) 26.9 % $ 12 9.4 % Six months ended $ 98 19.6 % $ 79 20.7 % The provision for (benefit from) income taxes reported for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 is based on our projected annual effective tax rate for fiscal year 2017 , and also includes certain discrete items recorded during the period. Our effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 was 26.9 percent and 19.6 percent , respectively, as compared to 9.4 percent and 20.7 percent , respectively, for the same period of fiscal year 2016. The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 was reduced, when compared to the statutory rate of 35.0 percent, due primarily to non-U.S. profits subject to a reduced or zero tax rate. The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2015 was reduced, when compared to the statutory rate of 35.0 percent, by the utilization of U.S. deferred tax assets which were subject to a valuation allowance and non-U.S. profits subject to a reduced or zero tax rate. Conversely, the effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2015 was increased due to a discrete expense of $25 million and $65 million , respectively, for excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions allocated directly to contributed capital. The effective tax rate for the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 differs from the same periods in fiscal year 2016 primarily due to the utilization of U.S. deferred tax assets in fiscal year 2016 which were subject to a valuation allowance and the discrete expense for excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation deductions allocated directly to contributed capital in fiscal year 2016. 45 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES (In millions) As of September 30, 2016 As of March 31, 2016 Increase/(Decrease) Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,746 $ 2,493 $ (747 ) Short-term investments 1,520 1,341 179 Total $ 3,266 $ 3,834 $ (568 ) Percentage of total assets 47 % 54 % Six Months Ended September 30, (In millions) 2016 2015 Change Net cash used in operating activities $ (139 ) $ (62 ) $ (77 ) Net cash used in investing activities (249 ) (80 ) (169 ) Net cash used in financing activities (351 ) (307 ) (44 ) Effect of foreign exchange on cash and cash equivalents (8 ) (21 ) 13 Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents $ (747 ) $ (470 ) $ (277 ) Changes in Cash Flow Operating Activities. Net cash used in operating activities increased by $77 million during the six months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . The increase is primarily driven by a $114 million decrease in accounts receivable collections due to the timing of game launches, in particular Battlefield Hardline. Accounts receivables for Battlefield Hardline, which launched in March 2015, was collected in the six months ended September 30, 2015 . There was no comparable launch in March 2016. Investing Activities. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $169 million during the six months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 primarily driven by a $273 million increase in the purchase of short-term investments and a $27 million increase in capital expenditures. This was offset by a $131 million increase in proceeds from the sales and maturities of short-term investments. Financing Activities. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $44 million during the six months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 primarily due to a $53 million decrease in proceeds from the exercise of stock options and a $28 million decrease in excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation recognized during the six months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . These increases were partially offset by a $35 million decrease in repayments related to our convertible senior notes during the six months ended September 30, 2016 as compared to the six months ended September 30, 2015 . Short-term Investments Due to our mix of fixed and variable rate securities, our short-term investment portfolio is susceptible to changes in short-term interest rates. As of September 30, 2016 , our short-term investments had gross unrealized gains of $2 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments, and gross unrealized losses of less than $1 million , or less than 1 percent of the total in short-term investments. From time to time, we may liquidate some or all of our short-term investments to fund operational needs or other activities, such as capital expenditures, business acquisitions or stock repurchase programs. Depending on which short-term investments we liquidate to fund these activities, we could recognize a portion, or all, of the gross unrealized gains or losses. Convertible Notes and Convertible Note Hedge In July 2011 , we issued $632.5 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Notes. The Convertible Notes matured on July 15, 2016. During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , approximately $136 million principal value of the Convertible Notes were converted by holders thereof. During the three months ended September 30, 2016 , we repaid the remaining principal balance on the Convertible Notes of $136 million and issued approximately 2.5 million shares of common stock to noteholders with a fair value of $193 million on the final maturity date of July 15, 2016. We also received and cancelled approximately 2.5 million shares of common stock from the exercise of the Convertible Note Hedge during the three months ended September 30, 2016 . 46 Table of Contents Warrants We have outstanding Warrants with independent third parties to acquire up to 19.9 million shares of our common stock (which is also equal to the number of shares of our common stock that notionally underlie the Convertible Notes), with a strike price of $41.14. The Warrants have a dilutive effect with respect to our common stock to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds $41.14 on or prior to the expiration date of the Warrants. The Warrants automatically exercise over a 60 trading day period that began on October 17, 2016. Based on the closing price of our common stock of $85.40 at the end of the quarter ended September 30, 2016 , approximately 10.3 million shares of our common stock would be issuable to Warrant holders. The actual amount of shares issuable upon exercise will be determined based upon the market price of our common stock during the 60 day trading period that began on October 17, 2016. Senior Notes In February 2016, we issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of the 2021 Notes and $400 million aggregate principal amount of the 2026 Notes. We used the net proceeds of $990 million for general corporate purposes, including the payment of amounts due upon conversion of our Convertible Notes and the repurchase of our common stock, including under the $500 million stock repurchase program approved in February 2016 and completed in March 2016. The effective interest rate was 3.94% for the 2021 Notes and 4.97% for the 2026 Notes. Interest is payable semiannually in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year. Credit Facility In March 2015 , we entered into a $500 million senior unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. As of September 30, 2016 , no amounts were outstanding under the credit facility. See Note 10 - Financing Arrangements to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to the above items, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. Financial Condition We believe that our cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, cash generated from operations and available financing facilities will be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for at least the next 12 months, including working capital requirements, capital expenditures, debt repayment obligations, and potentially, future acquisitions, stock repurchases, or strategic investments. We may choose at any time to raise additional capital to repay debt, strengthen our financial position, facilitate expansion, repurchase our stock, pursue strategic acquisitions and investments, and/or to take advantage of business opportunities as they arise. There can be no assurance, however, that such additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all, or that it will not result in substantial dilution to our existing stockholders. As of September 30, 2016 , approximately $1.9 billion of our cash, cash equivalents, and short-term investments were domiciled in foreign tax jurisdictions. While we have no plans to repatriate these funds to the United States in the short term, if we choose to do so, we may be required to accrue and pay additional taxes on any portion of the repatriation where no United States income tax had been previously provided. In May 2015, our Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $1 billion of our common stock. This stock repurchase program expires on May 31, 2017. Under this program, we may purchase stock in the open market or through privately-negotiated transactions in accordance with applicable securities laws, including pursuant to pre-arranged stock trading plans. The timing and actual amount of the stock repurchases will depend on several factors including price, capital availability, regulatory requirements, alternative investment opportunities and other market conditions. We are not obligated to repurchase any specific number of shares under this program and it may be modified, suspended or discontinued at any time. During the three and six months ended September 30, 2016 , we repurchased approximately 1.6 million and 3.5 million shares for approximately $127 million and $256 million , respectively. We continue to actively repurchase shares. As of September 30, 2016 , $282 million was available to be repurchased under this program. We have a shelf registration statement on Form S-3 on file with the SEC. This shelf registration statement, which includes a base prospectus, allows us at any time to offer any combination of securities described in the prospectus in one or more offerings. Unless otherwise specified in a prospectus supplement accompanying the base prospectus, we would use the net proceeds from the sale of any securities offered pursuant to the shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including for working capital, financing capital expenditures, research and development, marketing and distribution efforts, and if opportunities arise, for acquisitions or strategic alliances. Pending such uses, we may invest the net proceeds in interest-bearing securities. In addition, we may conduct concurrent or other financings at any time. 47 Table of Contents Our ability to maintain sufficient liquidity could be affected by various risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and acceptance of our products, our ability to collect our accounts receivable as they become due, successfully achieving our product release schedules and attaining our forecasted sales objectives, the impact of acquisitions and other strategic transactions in which we may engage, the impact of competition, economic conditions in the United States and abroad, the seasonal and cyclical nature of our business and operating results, risks of product returns and the other risks described in the Risk Factors section, included in Part II, Item 1A of this report. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments Note 11 - Commitments and Contingencies to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-Q as it relates to our contractual obligations and commercial commitments is incorporated by reference into this Item 2. 48 Table of Contents OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS As of September 30, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC, that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues and expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources that are material to investors. 49 Table of Contents