Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. For example, statements regarding our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels and liquidity sources are forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Overview We deliver microinverter technology for the solar industry that increases energy production, simplifies design and installation, improves system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides a platform for intelligent energy management. We were founded in March 2006 and have grown rapidly to become the market leader in the microinverter category. Since our first commercial shipment in mid-2008, we have sold over 5,100,000 microinverters as of March 31, 2014 . Our sales efforts are focused in the United States, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Switzerland and Australia. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to distributors who resell them to solar installers. We also sell directly to large installers and through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic partners. Components of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Net Revenues We generate revenues from sales of our microinverter systems, which include microinverter units and related accessories, an Envoy communications gateway device, and our Enlighten web-based monitoring service. Our revenue is affected by changes in the volume and average selling prices of our microinverter systems, driven by supply and demand, sales incentives, and competitive product offerings. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to market our products in a manner that increases awareness for microinverter technology, the continual development and introduction of new products to meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, and the expansion of our customer base. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of product costs, warranty, purchasing and production planning personnel and related expenses, logistics costs, depreciation on manufacturing test equipment and hosting services costs. Our product costs are impacted by technological innovations, such as advances in semiconductor integration and new product introductions, economies of scale resulting in lower component costs, and improvements in production processes and automation. Certain costs, primarily personnel and depreciation on manufacturing test equipment, are not directly affected by sales volume. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers and generally negotiate product pricing with them on a quarterly basis. In addition, a contract manufacturer also serves as our logistics provider by warehousing and delivering our products. We believe our contract manufacturing partners have sufficient production capacity to meet the growing demand for our products for the foreseeable future. However, shortages in the supply of certain key raw materials could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. Gross profit may vary from quarter to quarter and is primarily affected by our average selling prices, product cost, product mix, warranty costs, changes in estimates to pre-existing warranties and sales volume fluctuations resulting from seasonality. 14 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each of these expense categories and include salaries, benefits, payroll taxes, recruiting costs, sales commissions and stock-based compensation. We believe the investments we have made in our corporate infrastructure will enable us to deliver higher levels of net revenues without proportionate increases in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses such as salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. Research and development employees are engaged in the design and development of power electronics, semiconductors, powerline communications and networking and software functionality. Research and development expense also includes third-party design and development costs, testing and evaluation costs, depreciation on research and development related equipment and other indirect costs. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses such as salaries, commissions, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and travel. It also includes trade shows, marketing, customer support and other indirect costs. General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for personnel related to our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations. General and administrative expense also includes facilities costs and fees for professional services. Professional services consist primarily of outside legal, accounting and information technology consulting costs. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net includes interest income on invested cash balances and interest expense on amounts outstanding under our credit facilities and non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discounts and deferred financing costs. Other income (expense), net also includes transaction gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity involved, as well as from foreign currency forward contracts. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the countries where we sell our products. Historically, we have primarily been subject to taxation in the United States because we have sold the vast majority of our products to customers in the United States. As we have expanded the sale of products to customers outside the United States, we have become subject to taxation based on the foreign statutory rates in the countries where these sales took place. As sales in foreign jurisdictions increase in the future, our effective tax rate may fluctuate accordingly. We have not recorded any U.S. federal or state income tax provision for any of the periods presented because we have experienced operating losses since inception. The provision for income taxes related to our foreign operations was not material for all periods presented. Due to the history of losses we have generated since inception, we have recorded a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2014 2013 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net revenues $ 57,580 $ 45,577 $ 12,003 26 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Net revenues increased by 26% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , as compared to the same period in 2013 , due to higher volume of microinverter systems sold. We sold 423,000 microinverter units in the three months ended March 31, 2014 , compared to 315,000 units in the same period in 2013. The favorable impact of the higher volume was partially offset by a decline in the average selling price of our products. 15 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2014 2013 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 38,925 $ 33,376 $ 5,549 17 % Gross profit 18,655 12,201 6,454 53 % Gross margin 32.4 % 26.8 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 increased by 17% as compared to the same period in 2013 , while net revenues increased by 26% . Gross margin increased by 5.6 percentage points to 32.4% for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , as compared to 26.8% for the same period in 2014, primarily due to a lower cost per microinverter unit, product mix and lower warranty expense. The lower cost per microinverter unit was achieved through higher production efficiencies. Gross margin for the three months ended March 31, 2014 benefited from the favorable impact from measuring our warranty obligations related to microinverters sold since January 1, 2014 at fair value, which improved gross margin by approximately one percentage point. Costs of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 included warranty expense of $1.4 million and $2.1 million, respectively, resulting from net changes in estimates, which reduced gross margin by approximately 2.4 and 4.5 percentage points, respectively. See Note 3 to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2014 2013 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 9,086 $ 9,026 $ 60 1 % Percentage of net revenues 16 % 20 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Research and development expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 remained flat over the same period in 2013 as a $0.4 million increase in personnel-related expenses was offset by a decrease in the use of outside services. The amount of research and development expenses may fluctuate from period to period due to the differing levels and stages of development activity. We currently expect research and development expenses to increase for the remainder of 2014 as we continue to invest in product development and enhancements. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2014 2013 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 8,828 $ 6,850 $ 1,978 29 % Percentage of net revenues 15 % 15 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Sales and marketing expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 , increased by 29% , or $2.0 million , as compared to the same period in 2013. The increase was primarily attributable to an increase in headcount related to the expansion of our United Kingdom and Australian offices. We currently expect sales and marketing expenses to increase for the remainder of 2014 as we hire additional personnel both in the United States and internationally to support our anticipated revenue growth. 16 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2014 2013 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 6,526 $ 6,036 $ 490 8 % Percentage of net revenues 11 % 13 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 General and administrative expenses for the three months ended March 31, 2014 increased by 8% , or $0.5 million , as compared to the same period in 2013. The increase was primarily attributable to personnel-related costs and an increase in the use of professional services. We currently expect general and administrative expenses to increase for the remainder of 2014 as we continue to build our infrastructure to support our anticipated growth. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2014 2013 $ % (dollars in thousands) Other expense, net $ (342 ) $ (513 ) $ 171 (33 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 and 2013 Other expense, net, for the three months ended March 31, 2014 decreased by $0.2 million , as compared to the same period in 2013, primarily attributable to favorable foreign currency exchange movements associated with transactions denominated in foreign currencies. Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, we funded our operations with proceeds from sale of our equity securities and borrowings from term loans. Our primary uses of cash are operating costs, working capital needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements. Our future capital requirements are affected by many factors, including our rate of revenue growth; the expansion of our sales and marketing activities; the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts; and the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products. As of March 31, 2014 , we had $39.9 million in cash and cash equivalents, which are held primarily in non-interest bearing checking accounts, and $52.7 million in working capital. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, together with borrowings available under our working capital facility, will be adequate to fund our debt obligations as well as our planned capital expenditures and operations over the next 12 months. If additional sources of liquidity are needed, we may consider new debt or equity offerings, but there is no assurance that such transactions could be consummated on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to raise sufficient capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2014 2013 (In thousands) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ 4,281 $ (6,972 ) Net cash used in investing activities (2,172 ) (1,682 ) Net cash used in financing activities (412 ) (28 ) 17 Table of Contents Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , net cash provided by operating activities of $4.3 million was primarily attributable to changes in our operating assets and liabilities of $6.5 million and non-cash charges of $4.0 million, offset by a net loss of $6.2 million. The increase in cash provided by operating assets and liabilities was primarily attributable to a decrease of $3.6 million in accounts receivable, a $2.5 million decrease in inventory and a $1.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities, offset by a $1.0 million increase in prepaids and other assets. The decrease in accounts receivable was due to seasonality in our revenue profile, as revenue is typically lower in the first quarter than in the fourth quarter of the previous year. Inventory decreased as a result of the timing of receipt of finished goods from our key contract manufacturer. The increase in accounts payable and other accrued liabilities was due to the timing of vendor payments as well as an increase in sales incentive programs offered to our customers. The increase in other assets include replacement units on-hand for use in servicing our warranty obligations. Non-cash charges for the three months ended March 31, 2014 include stock compensation expense of $2.0 million and depreciation and amortization expense of $1.9 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash used in operating activities of $7.0 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $10.4 million, which was offset by non-cash charges of $1.7 million in depreciation and amortization, and $1.4 million in stock-based compensation. The impact on operating cash flow from net changes in operating assets and liabilities was not material. Sources of cash totaled $3.8 million resulting from a $2.8 million decrease in accounts receivable and a $1.0 million increase in deferred revenues. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to a lower sales volume in the seasonally soft first quarter of 2013 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. The increase in deferred revenues relates to sales of our Enlighten web-based monitoring service. Uses of cash included a $2.5 million increase in inventory purchases and a $0.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. In addition, a decrease in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities due to timing of vendor payments used cash of $0.8 million. Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , net cash used in investing activities was $2.2 million , primarily as a result of purchases of test and assembly equipment as well as additions to internally developed software. For the three months ended March 31, 2013 , net cash used in investing activities was $1.7 million, primarily as a result of purchases of test and assembly equipment. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2014 , net cash used in financing activities was $0.4 million and was attributable to $0.9 million in principal repayments of our term loans, offset by $0.5 million in proceeds from employee option exercises and employee stock purchases. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash used in financing activities was $28,000 and consisted of $0.6 million in principal repayments of term loans, offset by $0.6 million in proceeds from employee option exercises and employee stock purchases. Debt Agreements As of March 31, 2014 , we were a party to three debt agreements: (i) a $50.0 million revolving credit facility (the "Revolver") with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., (ii) a facility with Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. (Hercules Facility) consisting of an initial draw in the amount of $7.4 million under the facility and a commitment to provide an incremental line of credit of up to $15.6 million through March 31, 2014, and (iii) a $5.0 million equipment financing facility, also with Hercules. Each of these debt agreements is described in greater detail in the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 . On February 14, 2014, we entered into an amendment to the Revolver which extended the maturity date from November 7, 2015 to November 7, 2016. In addition, the amendment lowered the minimum liquidity covenant in undrawn availability from $8.0 million to $5.0 million in cash while maintaining at least $15.0 million of liquidity (defined as the sum of cash and the borrowing base) at all times. To date, we have not drawn on the Revolver. On March 31, 2014, the undrawn $15.6 million incremental line of credit under the Hercules Facility expired in accordance with its terms as we elected not to renew the incremental line of credit. As of March 31, 2014, the outstanding principal balance under the Hercules Facility was $7.2 million. 18 Table of Contents Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2014 have not materially changed from the amounts set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2014 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events, and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations, and if it entails significant judgment, subjectivity and complexity on the part of management in its application. Management believes that other than the election to account for all eligible warranty obligations associated with microinverters sold since January 1, 2014 at fair value, there have been no significant changes during the three months ended March 31, 2014 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013. Fair Value Option for Microinverters Sold Since January 1, 2014 Our warranty obligations related to microinverters sold since January 1, 2014 provide us the right, but not the requirement, to assign our warranty obligations to a third-party. Under Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 825 Financial Instruments , ("fair value option"), an entity may choose to elect the fair value option for such warranties at the time it first recognizes the eligible item. We made an irrevocable election to account for all eligible warranty obligations associated with microinverters sold since January 1, 2014 at fair value. This election was made to reflect the underlying economics of the time value of money for an obligation that will be settled over an extended period of up to 25 years. See Note 4Fair Value Measurements. We estimate the fair value of warranty obligations by calculating the warranty obligations in the same manner as for sales prior to January 1, 2014 and applying an expected present value technique to that result. The expected present value technique, an income approach, converts future amounts into a single current discounted amount. In addition to the key estimates of failure rates, claim rates and replacement costs, we used certain Level 3 inputs which are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement. Such additional assumptions included a discount rate based on our credit-adjusted risk-free rate and compensation comprised of a profit element and risk premium required of a market participant to assume the obligation. Warranty obligations initially recorded at fair value at the time of sale will be subsequently re-measured to fair value at each reporting date. In addition, the fair value of the liability will be accreted over the corresponding term of the warranty of up to 25 years using the interest method. Any changes in fair value of the liability from period-to-period, including accretion expense, will be recognized in cost of revenues. As of March 31, 2014 , warranty obligations associated with sales prior to December 31, 2013 were $30.1 million and warranty obligations associated with sales subsequent to December 31, 2013 were $629,000 , of which $587,000 were eligible for fair value accounting. The portion of warranty obligations arising from sales subsequent to December 31, 2013 that were not eligible for fair value accounting relates to sales of non-microinverter products. Periodic adjustments necessitated by actual experience of claims and any future changes in estimates to amounts not eligible for fair value accounting will continue to be accounted for on an undiscounted basis. 19 Table of Contents