Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and the other financial information appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. For example, statements regarding our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels and liquidity sources are forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Overview We deliver microinverter technology for the solar industry that increases energy production, simplifies design and installation, improves system uptime and reliability, reduces fire safety risk and provides a platform for intelligent energy management. We were founded in March 2006 and have grown rapidly to become the market leader in the microinverter category. Since our first commercial shipment in mid-2008, we have sold over 3,300,000 microinverters as of March 31, 2013. Our products are certified for installation in the United States, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Italy, the Benelux region, Switzerland, Greece and Australia. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to distributors who resell them to solar installers. We also sell directly to large installers and through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic partners. Components of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Net Revenues We generate revenues from sales of our microinverter systems, which include microinverter units and related accessories, an Envoy communications gateway device, and our Enlighten web-based monitoring service. Our revenue is affected by changes in the volume and average selling prices of our microinverter systems, driven by supply and demand, sales incentives, and competitive product offerings. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to market our products in a manner that increases awareness for microinverter technology, the continual development and introduction of new products to meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, and the expansion of our customer base. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of product costs, warranty, purchasing and production planning personnel and related expenses, logistics costs, depreciation on manufacturing test equipment and hosting services costs. Our product costs are impacted by technological innovations, such as advances in semiconductor integration and new product introductions, economies of scale resulting in lower component costs, and improvements in production processes and automation. Certain costs, primarily personnel and depreciation on manufacturing test equipment, are not directly affected by sales volume. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers and generally negotiate product pricing with them on a quarterly basis. In addition, a contract manufacturer also serves as our logistics provider by warehousing and delivering our products in North America and Europe. We believe our contract manufacturing partners have sufficient production capacity to meet the growing demand for our products for the foreseeable future. However, shortages in the supply of certain key raw materials could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. Gross profit may vary from quarter to quarter and is primarily affected by our average selling prices, product cost, product mix, warranty costs and sales volume fluctuations resulting from seasonality. Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each of these expense categories and include salaries, benefits, 12 Table of Contents payroll taxes, recruiting costs, sales commissions and stock-based compensation. We believe the investments we have made in our corporate infrastructure will enable us to deliver higher levels of net revenues without proportionate increases in research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative expenses. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses such as salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. Research and development employees are engaged in the design and development of power electronics, semiconductors, powerline communications and networking and software functionality. Research and development expense also includes third-party design and development costs, testing and evaluation costs, depreciation on research and development related equipment and other indirect costs. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses such as salaries, commissions, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and travel. It also includes trade shows, marketing, customer support and other indirect costs. General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for personnel related to our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations. General and administrative expense also includes facilities costs and fees for professional services. Professional services consist primarily of outside legal, accounting and information technology consulting costs. Other Income (Expense), Net Other income (expense), net includes interest income on invested cash balances and interest expense on amounts outstanding under our credit and convertible note facilities and non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of debt discounts and deferred financing costs. Other income (expense), net also includes mark-to-market adjustments to record our preferred stock warrants at fair value prior to our initial public offering of our common stock, or IPO, which were issued in conjunction with credit facilities, as well as losses or gains on conversion of non-U.S. dollar transactions into U.S. dollars and from foreign currency forward contracts. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the countries where we sell our products. Historically, we have primarily been subject to taxation in the United States because we have sold the vast majority of our products to customers in the United States. As we have expanded the sale of products to customers outside the United States, we have become subject to taxation based on the foreign statutory rates in the countries where these sales took place. As sales in foreign jurisdictions increase in the future, our effective tax rate may fluctuate accordingly. We have not recorded any U.S. federal or state income tax provision for any of the periods presented because we have experienced operating losses since inception. The provision for income taxes related to our foreign operations was not material for all periods presented. Due to the history of losses we have generated since inception, we have recorded a full valuation allowance on our net deferred tax assets. Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2013 2012 $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Net revenues $ 45,577 $ 42,600 $ 2,977 7 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 Net revenues increased by 7% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, compared to the same period in the prior year. The number of microinverter units sold increased by 8% from approximately 292,000 units in the three months ended March 31, 2012, to approximately 315,000 units in the three months ended March 31, 2013. The increase in net revenues was primarily the result of increased acceptance and market penetration of our microinverter systems. 13 Table of Contents Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2013 2012 $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Cost of revenues $ 33,376 $ 33,293 $ 83 % Gross profit 12,201 9,307 2,894 31 % Gross margin 26.8 % 21.8 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 Cost of revenues for the three months ended March 31, 2013 remained relatively flat, as compared to the same period in the prior year, despite a $3.0 million increase in net revenues. Gross margin increased by 5 percentage points to 26.8% for the three months ended March 31, 2013, as compared to 21.8% for the same period in the prior year. The increase was primarily attributable to a 4 percentage point increase from lower inventory write-downs and a 4 percentage point increase from a larger mix of our higher-margin third generation microinverter, which has a lower per unit manufacturing cost than our second generation microinverter. These increases were partially offset by a 3 percentage point reduction to gross margin due to a net increase in warranty expense, primarily attributable to changes in estimates to warranty obligations associated with our previous generation products. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2013 2012 $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Research and development $ 9,026 $ 7,842 $ 1,184 15 % Percentage of net revenues 20 % 18 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 The increase in research and development expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily attributable to a $0.8 million increase in personnel-related costs, as we increased our headcount throughout 2012 to support continued investment in our future product offerings. The remaining increase was due to depreciation on additional capital expenditures for research and development related equipment. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2013 2012 $ % (In thousands, except percentages) Sales and marketing $ 6,850 $ 5,049 $ 1,801 36 % Percentage of net revenues 15 % 12 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 The increase in sales and marketing expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily attributable to increased staffing levels to support higher sales volumes and international expansion. Personnel-related costs increased by $1.5 million as a result of increases in sales and marketing headcount throughout 2012. The remaining increase was primarily due to expenses related to industry trade shows and increased promotional activities. 14 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2013 2012 $ % (In thousands, except percentages) General and administrative $ 6,036 $ 5,696 $ 340 6 % Percentage of net revenues 13 % 13 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 The increase in general and administrative expenses in the three months ended March 31, 2013 , as compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily attributable to a $0.4 million increase in facility-related costs resulting from higher rent and leasehold improvement amortization expense for our new headquarters. Also contributing to this increase were $0.3 million in personnel-related costs and $0.3 million in miscellaneous taxes, insurance and other fees. This increase was offset by a $0.7 million reduction in professional services expenses related to our non-recurring infrastructure build-out in the first quarter of 2012 in anticipation of operating as a public company. Other Expense, Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2013 2012 $ % (In thousands) Other expense, net $ (513 ) $ (839 ) $ 326 (39 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 and 2012 The decrease in other expense, net in the three months ended March 31, 2013, as compared to the same period in the prior year, was primarily attributable to a $1.0 million decrease in interest expense as a result of lower average debt outstanding and amortization of deferred financing costs and debt discount. This decrease was partially offset by a $0.6 million gain recorded in the three months ended March 31, 2012 to adjust the fair value of our preferred stock warrant liability, which was reclassified to stockholders' equity at its then fair value upon our IPO in April 2012. Liquidity and Capital Resources Prior to our IPO, we funded our operations primarily through private placements of convertible preferred stock and convertible notes, and proceeds from term loans. In April 2012, we completed our IPO, in which we issued and sold 10,315,151 shares and received net proceeds of approximately $53.8 million. Our primary uses of cash are operating costs, working capital needs, capital expenditures and debt service requirements. Our future capital requirements are affected by many factors, including our rate of revenue growth; the expansion of our sales and marketing activities; the timing and extent of spending to support product development efforts; and the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements to existing products. As of March 31, 2013, we had $36.4 million in cash and cash equivalents, which are held primarily in bank deposits and money market accounts, and $55.1 million in working capital. We believe our current cash and cash equivalents, together with borrowings available under our Revolver and the Hercules Facility (as described below) will be adequate to fund our debt obligations as well as our planned capital expenditures and operations over the next 12 months. If additional sources of liquidity are needed, we may consider new debt or equity offerings but there is no assurance that such transactions could be consummated on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to raise sufficient capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. 15 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2013 2012 (In thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (6,972 ) $ (14,071 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,682 ) (4,605 ) Net cash used in financing activities (28 ) (973 ) Net Cash Used in Operating Activities Historically, we have experienced negative operating cash flows as we have invested significant resources to develop new product offerings and focused on critical research and development activities required to reduce product costs, increase performance and foster innovation. In addition, uses of cash included expansion of our operations into new product markets and geographies and build our operational infrastructure to support the growth of our business. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash used in operating activities of $7.0 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $10.4 million , which was offset by non-cash charges of $1.7 million in depreciation and amortization, and $1.4 million in stock-based compensation. The impact on operating cash flow from net changes in operating assets and liabilities was not material. Sources of cash totaled $3.8 million resulting from a $2.8 million decrease in accounts receivable and a $1.0 million increase in deferred revenues. The decrease in accounts receivable was primarily due to a lower sales volume in the seasonally soft first quarter of 2013 as compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. The increase in deferred revenues relates to sales of our Enlighten web-based monitoring service. Uses of cash included a $2.5 million increase in inventory purchases and a $0.4 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets. In addition, a decrease in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities due to timing of vendor payments used cash of $0.8 million . For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash used in operating activities was $14.1 million primarily resulting from a net loss of $10.2 million, which was partially offset by non-cash charges of $1.1 million related to depreciation and amortization, non-cash interest expense of $0.9 million related to the amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts and stock-based compensation expense of $0.7 million. The net change in working capital items was primarily a result of a $14.4 million increase in inventory, $0.9 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets and a $6.2 million decrease in deferred revenues. The net decrease in working capital items was offset by a $11.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities, and a $4.3 million decrease in accounts receivable. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Capital expenditures have generally been comprised of purchases of test equipment, leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures. For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash used in investing activities was $1.7 million , primarily as a result of purchases of test and assembly equipment . For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash used in investing activities was $4.6 million, primarily as a result of purchases of test equipment and expenditures on leasehold improvements and furniture and fixtures for our new headquarters. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2013, net cash used in financing activities was approximately zero and consisted of $0.6 million in principal repayments of term loans, offset by proceeds of $0.6 million received from common stock issuances pursuant to our equity incentive plans. For the three months ended March 31, 2012, net cash used in financing activities primarily consisted of $3.3 million in principal repayments of term loans offset by $2.6 million in borrowings from term loans and $0.3 million in payments for direct costs incurred in connection with our IPO. Debt Agreements 16 Table of Contents As of March 31, 2013, we were a party to three debt agreements: (i) the $50.0 million revolving credit facility ("the Revolver") with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., (ii) the facility with Hercules Technology Growth Capital, Inc. (Hercules Facility) consisting of a $7.4 million initial term loan and lending commitments of up to $15.6 million in additional term loans, and (iii) the $5.0 million equipment financing facility, also with Hercules. As of March 31, 2013, we have not drawn upon the Revolver or additional term loans available under the Hercules Facility. Each of these debt agreements is described in greater detail in our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. At March 31, 2013, we were in compliance with all debt covenants. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations as of March 31, 2013 have not materially changed from the amounts set forth in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Since our inception, we have not engaged in any off-balance sheet arrangements including the use of structured finance, special purpose entities or variable interest entities. 17 Table of Contents Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events, and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and the related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if it is important to our financial condition and results of operations, and if it entails significant judgment, subjectivity and complexity on the part of management in its application. We consider the following to be our critical accounting policies: Revenue recognition; Inventory valuation; and Warranty obligations. For a complete description of our critical accounting policies that involve our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, please refer to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 under Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsCritical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates.