Item 2. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Forward-Looking Statements The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read together with our condensed consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. This discussion contains forward-looking statements reflecting our current expectations and involves risks and uncertainties. In some cases, you can identify forward-looking statements by terminology such as may, will, should, expect, plan, anticipate, believe, estimate, predict, intend, potential or continue or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. For example, statements regarding our expectations as to future financial performance, expense levels and liquidity sources are forward-looking statements. Our actual results and the timing of events may differ materially from those discussed in our forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and those discussed in the section entitled Risk Factors included in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Overview We deliver simple, innovative and reliable energy management solutions that advance the worldwide potential of renewable energy. We were founded in March 2006 and have grown rapidly to become the market leader in the microinverter category. Our technology was designed to increase energy production, simplify design and installation, improve system uptime and reliability, reduce fire safety risk, and provide a platform for intelligent energy management. Since inception, we have shipped approximately 11.0 million microinverters representing over 2.8 gigawatts of solar PV generating capacity, and more than 460,000 Enphase residential and commercial systems have been deployed in over 100 countries. We sell our microinverter systems primarily to distributors who resell them to solar installers. We also sell directly to large installers and through original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and strategic partners. Historically, revenue generated from the U.S. market have represented more than 80% of our total revenue. Components of Condensed Consolidated Statements of Operations Net Revenues We generate net revenues from sales of our microinverter systems, which include microinverter units, an Envoy communications gateway, and our Enlighten cloud-based monitoring service. Our revenue is affected by changes in the volume and average selling prices of our microinverter systems, driven by supply and demand, sales incentives, and competitive product offerings. Our revenue growth is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the marketplace by developing and introducing new products to meet the changing technology and performance requirements of our customers, the diversification and expansion of our revenue base, and our ability to market our products in a manner that increases awareness for microinverter technology and differentiates us in the marketplace. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Cost of revenues is comprised primarily of product costs, warranty, manufacturing personnel and logistics costs, freight costs, depreciation and amortization of test equipment and hosting services costs. Our product costs are impacted by technological innovations, such as advances in semiconductor integration and new product introductions, economies of scale resulting in lower component costs, and improvements in production processes and automation. Certain costs, primarily personnel and depreciation and amortization of test equipment, are not directly affected by sales volume. We outsource our manufacturing to third-party contract manufacturers and generally negotiate product pricing with them on a quarterly basis. We believe our contract manufacturing partners have sufficient production capacity to meet the growing demand for our products for the foreseeable future. However, shortages in the supply of certain key raw materials could adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand for our products. In addition, third parties, including one of our contract manufacturers, serve as our logistics providers by warehousing and delivering our products in the United States, Europe and Asia. Gross profit may vary from quarter to quarter and is primarily affected by our average selling prices, product cost, product mix, warranty costs and sales volume fluctuations resulting from seasonality. 15 Table of Contents Operating Expenses Operating expenses consist of research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative expenses. Personnel-related costs are the most significant component of each of these expense categories and include salaries, benefits, payroll taxes, recruiting costs, sales commissions, incentive compensation and stock-based compensation. Research and development expense includes personnel-related expenses such as salaries, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation and employee benefits. Research and development employees are engaged in the design and development of power electronics, semiconductors, powerline communications, networking and software functionality, and storage. Research and development expense also includes third-party design and development costs, testing and evaluation costs, depreciation expense and other indirect costs. We devote substantial resources to research and development programs that focus on enhancements to, and cost efficiencies in, our existing products and timely development of new products that utilize technological innovation to drive down product costs, improve functionality, and enhance reliability. We intend to continue to invest in our research and development efforts because we believe they are critical to maintaining our competitive position. Sales and marketing expense consists primarily of personnel-related expenses such as salaries, commissions, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation, employee benefits and travel. It also includes trade shows, marketing, customer support and other indirect costs. We expect to continue to make the necessary investments to enable us to execute our strategy to increase our market penetration geographically and enter into new markets by expanding our customer base of distributors, large installers, OEMs and strategic partners. We currently offer microinverter systems targeting the residential and commercial markets in the United States, Canada, Mexico and certain Central American markets, the United Kingdom, France, the Benelux region, certain other European markets, Australia, New Zealand and certain other Asian markets. We expect to continue to expand the geographic reach of our product offerings and explore new sales channels in addressable markets in the future. General and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries, incentive compensation, stock-based compensation and employee benefits for personnel related to our executive, finance, human resources, information technology and legal organizations. General and administrative expense also includes facilities costs and fees for professional services. Professional services consist primarily of outside legal, accounting and information technology consulting costs. Other Income (Expense), Net Other expense, net includes interest expense and commitment fees under our revolving credit facility and non-cash interest expense related to the amortization of deferred financing costs, as well as gains or losses upon conversion of non-U.S. dollar transactions into U.S. dollars and from foreign currency forward contracts. Provision for Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the countries where we sell our products. Historically, we have primarily been subject to taxation in the United States because we have sold the vast majority of our products to customers in the United States. As we have expanded the sale of products to customers outside the United States, we have become subject to taxation based on the foreign statutory rates in the countries where these sales took place. As sales in foreign jurisdictions increase in the future, our effective tax rate may fluctuate accordingly. Due to the history of losses we have generated in the United States since inception, we believe that it is more-likely-than-not that all of our U.S. and state deferred tax assets will not be realized as of March 31, 2016 . Results of Operations for the Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Net Revenues Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2016 2015 $ % (dollars in thousands) Net revenues $ 64,121 $ 86,653 $ (22,532 ) (26 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Net revenues decreased by 26% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015 , due to a decrease in microinverter systems sold and lower average selling prices. We sold 611,000 microinverter units in the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to 719,000 units in the same period in 2015 . The average revenue per watt of microinverter systems sold declined approximately 16% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the same peri 16 Table of Contents od in 2015. We expect average selling prices for microinverter systems to continue to decline in the future which may negatively affect net revenues. Cost of Revenues and Gross Profit Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2016 2015 $ % (dollars in thousands) Cost of revenues $ 52,361 $ 58,629 $ (6,268 ) (11 )% Gross profit 11,760 28,024 (16,264 ) (58 )% Gross margin 18.3 % 32.3 % Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Cost of revenues decreased by 11% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015 , which reflects the lower volume of shipments of our products. Gross margin decreased by 14 percentage points for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015. The primary driver of the decrease in gross margin was our shift towards a more competitive pricing strategy implemented in late 2015. Our ability to reduce product costs and the timing of product cost reductions relative to declines in average selling prices can have a significant impact on our gross margin. Research and Development Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2016 2015 $ % (dollars in thousands) Research and development $ 13,066 $ 13,430 $ (364 ) (3 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Research and development expenses were relatively flat for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015 . The slight decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in third-party development costs and lower depreciation on research and development test equipment and machinery. In addition, salaries increased by $0.5 million due to headcount additions. This increase was entirely offset by lower incentive compensation. The amount of research and development expenses may fluctuate from period to period due to the differing levels and stages of development activity. Sales and Marketing Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2016 2015 $ % (dollars in thousands) Sales and marketing $ 10,215 $ 11,937 $ (1,722 ) (14 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Sales and marketing expenses decreased by 14% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015 . The decrease was primarily driven by decreased personnel-related costs of $1.8 million resulting from reduced sales and marketing headcount. In addition, use of outside services and trade show related activities decreased by $0.4 million. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.5 million increase in bad debt expense. 17 Table of Contents General and Administrative Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2016 2015 $ % (dollars in thousands) General and administrative $ 7,567 $ 8,205 $ (638 ) (8 )% Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 General and administrative expenses decreased by 8% for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to the same period in 2015 . The decrease was primarily driven by decreased personnel-related costs of $0.5 million resulting from lower incentive compensation expense. In addition, use of professional services decreased by $0.4 million. These decreases were partially offset by a $0.3 million increase in facilities-related expenses including rent, utilities and depreciation related to corporate fixed assets. Other Income (Expense), Net Three Months Ended March 31, Change in 2016 2015 $ % (dollars in thousands) Other income (expense), net $ 529 $ (605 ) $ 1,134 n/m ________________________ n/m not meaningful Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 and 2015 Other income (expense), net was a net income of $0.5 million for the three months ended March 31, 2016 , as compared to a net expense of $0.6 million in the same period in 2015, a difference of $1.1 million . This change was primarily due to a $1.2 million fluctuation in foreign currency exchange movements associated with transactions denominated in Euros and the Australian Dollar. For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , foreign currency exchange movements resulted in a gain of $0.7 million, as compared to a loss of $0.5 million in the same period in 2015. The remaining change for the corresponding period was due to a $0.1 million increase in interest expense in the first quarter of 2016. Liquidity and Capital Resources Sources of Liquidity As of March 31, 2016 , we had $13.0 million in cash and cash equivalents and working capital of $32.9 million . Cash and cash equivalents held in the United States were $6.4 million and consisted primarily of non-interest bearing checking deposits, with the remainder held in various foreign subsidiaries. We maintain a $50.0 million revolving credit facility with Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (Wells Fargo) that was entered into in November 2012, as first amended on February 14, 2014. On December 18, 2015, we entered into an amended and restated revolving credit agreement with Wells Fargo (the Revolver) which extended the maturity date to November 7, 2019 and added an uncommitted accordion feature that could increase the size of the facility by $25.0 million, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Availability under the Revolver is subject to a borrowing base calculation that limits availability to a percentage of eligible domestic accounts receivable plus a percentage of the value of eligible domestic inventory, less certain reserves. Borrowings under the Revolver bear interest in cash at an annual rate equal to, at our option, either LIBOR or a base rate that is comprised of, among other things, the prime rate, plus a margin that is between 1.0% and 3.75% depending on the currency borrowed and the specific term of repayment. The Revolver requires us to pay a commitment fee between 0.25% and 0.375% based on the average daily unused portion of the revolving credit commitment. The Revolver is secured by a pledge of substantially all our assets other than intellectual property and contains customary affirmative and negative covenants, including restricting our ability to make dividend payments, and events of default. In addition, the Revolver requires us to maintain liquidity of at least $15.0 million at all times, consisting of cash, cash 18 Table of Contents equivalents, and availability on the Revolver. Of this $15.0 million liquidity requirement, at least $5.0 million must be undrawn availability. We were in compliance with such covenants as of March 31, 2016 . As of March 31, 2016 , outstanding borrowings under the Revolver were $20.0 million . After taking into account the liquidity requirement, the remaining borrowing availability was $15.9 million . The weighted-average interest rate related to the outstanding balance was 3.2% . We believe our current cash and cash equivalents of $13.0 million as of March 31, 2016 , together with borrowings expected to be available under our Revolver, will be sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, indebtedness payments, outstanding commitments and obligations and to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to meet our projected performance targets or manage our inventory levels to align with anticipated demand, our liquidity could be adversely impacted and we may need to seek additional sources of liquidity. If additional sources of liquidity are needed, we may consider new debt or equity offerings, but there is no assurance that such transactions could be consummated on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to raise sufficient capital when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. The following table summarizes our cash flows for the periods indicated: Three Months Ended March 31, 2016 2015 (In thousands) Net cash used in operating activities $ (15,249 ) $ (11,498 ) Net cash used in investing activities (3,348 ) (3,611 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 3,046 677 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash 115 (473 ) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (15,436 ) (14,905 ) Operating Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash used in operating activities of $15.2 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $18.8 million and net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $2.7 million , which was partially offset by non-cash charges of $6.3 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization. Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily resulted from a $4.8 million increase in inventory, a $2.1 million increase in prepaid expenses and other assets, a $1.5 million increase in accounts receivable and a $0.9 million decrease in warranty obligations. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities included a $4.3 million increase in deferred revenue and a $2.2 million increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities. The increase in inventory was due, in part, to the timing of the receipt of inventory from our third-party outsourced manufacturer. Our ending inventory levels as of March 31, 2016 are higher than normal due to lower sales volume. Management is currently addressing the issue of higher inventory levels and believes it will take several quarters to bring inventory back to normal levels. The increase in prepaid expenses and other assets was primarily attributable to deferral of costs for certain sales arrangements with extended payment terms, which also contributed to an increase in deferred revenue. The remaining increases to deferred revenue was related to our Enlighten cloud-based monitoring service associated with sales of Envoy communications gateway devices. The increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities was due to the timing of vendor payments. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash used in operating activities of $11.5 million was primarily attributable to a net loss of $6.3 million and net cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities of $11.0 million, offset by non-cash charges of $5.8 million primarily consisting of stock-based compensation and depreciation and amortization. Cash outflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily resulted from a $13.2 million increase in inventory, a $2.1 million increase in other assets and a $0.8 million increase in accounts receivable. Cash inflows from changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily resulted from a $2.4 million increase in deferred revenue, a $2.3 million increase in accounts payable, accrued and other liabilities and a $0.2 million increase in warranty obligations. 19 Table of Contents Investing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash used in investing activities of $3.3 million primarily resulted from purchases of test and assembly equipment and capitalized costs related to internal-use software. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash used in investing activities of $3.6 million primarily resulted from purchases of test and assembly equipment and capitalized costs related to internal-use software. Financing Activities For the three months ended March 31, 2016 , net cash provided by financing activities of $3.0 million was primarily attributed to proceeds from net borrowings under our Revolver. For the three months ended March 31, 2015 , net cash provided by financing activities of $0.7 million was attributable to proceeds from employee stock option exercises. Contractual Obligations There were no material changes during the three months ended March 31, 2016 to our contractual commitments as presented in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our 2015 Form 10-K that were outside the ordinary course of our business. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As of March 31, 2016 , we did not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of SEC Regulation S-K. Critical Accounting Policies Our condensed consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., or GAAP. In connection with the preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements, we are required to make assumptions and estimates about future events and apply judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, expenses and related disclosures. We base our assumptions, estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors that management believes to be relevant at the time our consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review the accounting policies, assumptions, estimates and judgments to ensure that our consolidated financial statements are presented fairly and in accordance with GAAP. However, because future events and their effects cannot be determined with certainty, actual results could differ from our assumptions and estimates. To the extent that there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected. We consider an accounting policy to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimates that are reasonably likely to occur periodically, could materially impact the consolidated financial statements. There have been no significant changes during the three months ended March 31, 2016 to the items that we disclosed as our critical accounting policies and estimates in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 . Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Effective See Note 1, Description of Business and Basis of Presentation , of the Notes to Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 1 for recently issued accounting pronouncements not yet effective. 20 Table of Contents